CODE OF ORDINANCES
of the
BOROUGH OF PORTAGE
Cambria County, Pennsylvania
Published by Authority of the Borough
Adopted April 5, 1999
 
Code supplemented and revised through May, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Code revised and supplemented by Keystate Publishers, Inc., through:
March 5, 2007
June 7, 2010
February 4, 2013
Code revised and supplemented by American Legal Publishing through:
November, 2016
December, 2017
December, 2018
January, 2020
December, 2020
April, 2022
April, 2023
May, 2024
OFFICIALS
of the
BOROUGH OF PORTAGE
County of Cambria
Pennsylvania
ELECTED OFFICIALS
BOROUGH COUNCIL
President      George Wozniak
Vice President Brent Kinley
Council        Ronald Portash
              Ronald Cadwallader
              Mark Slebodnick
              Perry Scarton
               
Mayor          Robert Fox
               
Tax Collector  David Layo
Auditor        Kotzan & Associates
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
               
Manager        Robert A. Koban
Secretary      Michelle Claar
Solicitor      Michael Emerick
Engineer       Stiffler and McGraw
 
FEE SCHEDULE
SUBJECT FEES
SUBJECT                                                               FEES
AMUSEMENT LICENSES (13, § 401)                                       free
COMPLIANCE PERMIT FEES (8, § 210)
1.   Building/compliance fee [Res. 9-2011]                         $30.00
2.   Additional fee per square feet of construction                $0.15
3.   Remodeling (strictly exterior) requires a building permit. If the existing
structure is not increased in size, the total fee is $15.00. Improvements include
window installation or replacement, siding, soffit, facia, porches and decks. If a
structure is replaced with a larger structure, the additional fee applies to the
building permit filing fee.
   Note: A building permit is required for all improvements and/or remodeling
except for roof replacement or improvements beyond the extent of damage as a result
of fire and natural catastrophe.
CHECKS RETURNED FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS                                $25.00 each
CONTRACTORS
   [Reserved]
[Ord. 2-2011]
FACSIMILES                                                            $1.00 per
                                                                      page
LITTLE CONEMAUGH RIVER WATERSHED STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (26, §
161)
1.   Filing fee (costs to cover distribution of plans to Engineer, $30.00
County)
2.   Planning Commission Fees
   A.   Cambria County Planning Commission                      None
   B.   Portage Area Planning Commission                        $35.00
3.   Engineering Fees
   A.   Design Review. Engineering fees for review will be in accordance with the
current agreement between the Borough and its Engineer. Actual costs of all fees
and expenses will be billed through the Borough and will be the responsibility of
the applicant. The Borough may require a deposit to be held in escrow to secure
payment of fees and expenses.
 
SUBJECT FEES
SUBJECT                                                       FEES
   B.   Onsite Inspection and Testing Services. Inspection and testing fees
will be in accordance with the current agreement between the Borough and its
Engineer. Actual costs of all fees and expenses will be billed through the
Borough and will be the responsibility of the applicant. The Borough may
require a deposit to be held in escrow to secure payment of fees and
expenses.
4.   Legal Fees. All costs associated with the preparation of reimbursement
agreements for engineering review and inspection and testing will be in
accordance with the Borough’s current agreement with its Solicitor and will
be the responsibility of the applicant. The Borough may require a deposit to
be held in escrow to secure payment of fees and expenses.
A tabulation of hourly rates will be available upon request from the Borough
Secretary.
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES LICENSES (13, § 106)
1.   Juke Boxes
   A.   First juke box                                  $50.00
   B.   Each additional juke box                        $50.00
2.   Amusement devices, mechanical, electrical or electronic
   A.   First machine                                   $75.00
   B.   Each additional machine                         $50.00
PARKING
   1.   Monthly permit                                  $5.00 per space
PHOTOCOPIES                                                   $0.25 each page
SANITATION SERVICES (for a 12-month period commencing January
1, 2024, through December 31, 2024)
                                                              2023   2024
   Curbside - (monthly billing)                            $17.20 $19.20
   Curbside - (quarterly)                                  $51.60 $57.60
   Pre-paid bag service in pack of 10                      $31.50 $34.50
[Res. 10-2016; Res. 14-2019; Res. 19-2021; Res. 17-2022; Res. 15-2023]
 
SUBJECT FEES
SUBJECT                                   FEES
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION
   1.   Per day                     $5.00
   2.   Permit required to obstruct sidewalk for construction remodeling or
other purpose.
STREET EXCAVATION PERMIT (21, § 104)
1.   Fees will be charged in accordance with the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation schedule then in effect.
TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS LICENSE (13, §
302)
1.   Permit                            $25.00
   Plus $5.00 per day per organization
   Plus, $1.00 per person
 
(Res. 2-1998, 4/6/1998; as amended by Res. 15-2003, 12/1/2003; by Res. 10-2006,
2/6/2006; by Res. 10- 2009, 12/18/2009; by Ord. 2-2011, 4/4/2011, §2; by Res.
9-2011, 11/7/2011; by Res. 6-2012, 10/1/2012; by Res. 16-2013, 12/2/2013; by
Res. 17-2014, 12/1/2014; by Res. 14-2015, 12/7/2015; by Res. 10-2016, 12/5/
2016; by Res. 14-2019, 12/2/2019; by Res. 19-2021, 12/6/2021; by Res. 17-2022,
12/5/2022; and by Res. 15-2023, 12/15/2023)
HOME RULE CHARTER
ARTICLE I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
   §
101.   Name
   §
102.   Boundaries
ARTICLE II
POWERS OF THE BOROUGH
   §
201.   Powers
   §
202.   Construction
   §
203.   Residual Powers in the Borough Council
ARTICLE III
BOROUGH COUNCIL
   §
301.   Composition
   §
302.   Qualifications of Members of Council
   §
303.   Prohibitions
   §
304.   Election and Procedure
   §
305.   Terms
   §
306.   Organization of Council
   §
307.   Authority
   §
308.   Salary
ARTICLE IV
OPERATION AND PROCEDURES OF BOROUGH COUNCIL
   §
401.   Meetings
   §
402.   Records
   §
403.   Public Meeting
   §
404.   Operating Rules
   §
405.   Advertisement of Appointed Positions
   §
406.   Quorum
   §
407.   Majority Action
   §
408.   Form of Action by Council
   §
409.   Vacancies
   §
410.   Filling of Vacancies
   §
411.   Oath of Office
   §
412.   Citizens' Right to be Heard
ARTICLE V
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
   §
501.   Certain Specific Action Requiring an Ordinance
   §
502.   Enacting Clause
   §
503.   General Ordinance Requirements
   §
504.   Penalty
   §
505.   Ordinances Requiring Pnior Public Notice
   §
506.   Public Notice
   §
507.   Amendment After Public Hearing
   §
508.   Content of Public Notice
   §
509.   Publication and Effective Date of Ordinance
   §
510.   Recprding of Ordinances and Resolutions
   §
511.   Administrative Code
   §
512.   Emergency Ordinances
   §
513.   Codes of Technical Regulations
ARTICLE VI
INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS BY COUNCIL
   §
601.   Inquiries and Investigations
   §
602.   Witnesses and Documents
   §
603.   Oaths of Witnesses
   §
604.   Witness Fees
ARTICLE VII
MAYOR
   §
701.   Duties
   §
702.   Emergency Powers
   §
703.   Deputy Mayor
   §
704.   Qualifications of the Mayor
   §
705.   Prohibitions
   §
706.   Term
   §
707.   Election and Procedure
   §
708.   Powers, Duties and Authority
   §
709.   Salary
ARTICLE VIII
BOROUGH MANAGER
   §
801.   Appointment, Qualifications and Compensation
   §
802.   Removal
   §
803.   Aoting Borough Manager
   §
804.   Powers and Duties of Borough Manager
ARTICLE IX
BOROUGH SOLICITOR
   §
901.   Appointment, Qualifications and Compensation
   §
902.   Removal
   §
903.   Delegation of Authority
   §
904.   Powers and Duties of the Borough Solicitor
   §
905.   Access to Records
ARTICLE X
BOROUGH ENGINEER
   §
1001.   Appointment, Qualification and Compensation
   §
1002.   Removal
ARTICLE XI
AUTHORITIES
   §
1101.   Continuation of Authorities
ARTICLE XII
PERSONNEL
   §
1201.   Genera Provisions
   §
1202.   Indemnification
   §
1203.   Pensicn Plans
ARTICLE XIII
POLICE DEPARTMENT
   §
1301.   Purpose
   §
1302.   Appointment, Removal, Promotion, Suspension and Reduction in Rank
   §
1303.   Powers and Authonity
   §
1304.   Control
   §
1305.   Compensation
   §
1306.   Part-Time Police
   §
1307.   Special School Police
   §
1308.   Special Police
   §
1309.   Auxiliany Police
   §
1310.   Civil Serviqe
   §
1311.   Manner of Filling Appointments
ARTICLE XIV
BUDGET AND FISCAL MATTERS
   §
1401.   Fiscal Year
   §
1402.   Submission of Budget and Budget Message
   §
1403.   Budget
   §
1404.   Budget Message
   §
1405.   Public Record
   §
1406.   Adoption of Budget
   §
1407.   Modification of Budget
   §
1403.   Payment of Funds
   §
1409.   Municipal Borrowing
   §
1410.   Fidelity Bonds
   §
1411.   Independent Audit
   §
1412.   Appeals from Audit
   §
1413.   Taxpayers Appealing to Enter Bond
   §
1414.   Procedure on. Appeals
   §
1415.   Framed Issues
   §
1416.   Findings of Fact and Law; Judgment
   §
1417.   Balances Due to be Entered as Judgments
   §
1418.   Attorney to Auditors
   §
1419.   Penalty for Failure to Comply with Law
   §
1420.   Auditors May Compel Attendance of Witnesses
   §
1421.   Auditors May Administer Oaths; Penalty
   §
1422.   Persons Refusing to Testify to be Committed
   §
1423.   Pay of Witnesses
   §
1424.   Auditors to Settle Accounts Where Witnesses Do Not Appear
ARTICLE XV
TAXATION AND FINANCE
   §
1501.   Annual Taxes
   §
1502.   Special Levies
   §
1503.   Tax Enabling Act and Subsequent Legislation
ARTICLE XVI
CONTRACTS
   §
1601.   Requirements
   §
1602.   Competitive Bids
   §
1603.   Bidding Procedure
   §
1604.   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding
   §
1605.   Maximum Term of Certain Contracts
   §
1606.   Eminent Domain
   §
1607.   Officials with Personal Interest in Contracts
   §
1608.   Unenforceable Contracts
ARTICLE XVII
RECALL
   §
1701.   Officers Subject to Recall
   §
1702.   Recall Procedure
   §
1703.   Notice to Incumbent
   §
1704.   Recall Elections
   §
1705.   Disqualification for Office
   §
1706.   Limitations
ARTICLE XVIII
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
   §
1801.   Authority
   §
1802.   Procedure for Filing
   §
1803.   Petitions
   §
1804.   Procedure After Filing
   §
1805.   Referendum Petition; Suspension of Ordinance
   §
1806.   Action on Petitions
   §
1807.   Results of Election
ARTICLE XIX
TRANSITION AND CONTINUATION
   §
1901.   Rights and Liabilities of the Borough
   §
1902.   Authority of Existing Elected Officers
   §
1903.   Continuation of Ordinances
   §
1904.   Election of Six Member Council and Mayor
ARTICLE XX
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   §
2001.   Severability
   §
2002.   Charter Amendment
   §
2003.   Other Elected Offices
   §
2004.   Effective Date
   §
2005.   Nondiscrimination and Equality of Opportunity
ARTICLE I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
§ 101. NAME.
The Borough of Portage shall continue to be a municipal corporation under its
present name, "Borough of Portage.' As used in this Charter, the word "Borough"
shall mean the Borough of Portage in Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 101)
§ 102. BOUNDARIES.
The boundaries of the Borough shall be the actual boundaries of the Borough at
the time this Charter takes effect and as they may be lawfully changed
thereafter.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 102)
ARTICLE II
POWERS OF THE BOROUGH
§ 201. POWERS.
The Borough has, and may exercise, any power, and may perform any function not
denied by the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of
Pennsylvania, by the General Assembly or by this Charter at any time.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 201)
§ 202. CONSTRUCTION.
The powers of the Borough under this Charter shall be construed broadly in
favor of the Borough, and the specific mention of particular powers in this
Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power stated
in this Article. All possible powers of the Borough, except as limited in §
201, are to be considered as if specifically and individually set forth in this
Article, whether such powers are presently available to the Borough or may
hereafter from time to time become available.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 202;
§ 203. RESIDUAL POWERS IN THE BOROUGH COUNCIL.
All powers of the Borough, including any such power which may hereafter be
conferred on the Borough by amendment of the Constitution of the United States
or of the Constitution of Pennsylvania or by act of the General Assembly m by
amendment of this Charter, unless otherwise specifically set forth in this
Charter, shall be vested in the Borough Council. The Council shall be elected,
shall organize and shall function as provided in this Charter.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 203)
ARTICLE III
BOROUGH COUNCIL
§ 301. COMPOSITION.
There shall be a Borough Council of six members plus a Mayor elected by the
qualified voters of the Borough as follows:
      A.   Ward 1, two members;
      B.   Ward 2, two members;
      C.   Ward 3, two members; plus,
      D.   The Mayor, elected at-large.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 301)
§ 302. QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
A member of Council shall be a citizen of the United States, a registered
elector of the ward to be represented at the time of candidacy and during the
term of office, a resident of the Borough for at least 6 months prior to
candidacy, a resident of that ward for at least 90 days prior to candidacy, and
must be at least 18 years of age when elected or appointed to office.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 302)
§ 303. PROHIBITIONS.
A member of Council shall not hold any other compensated Borough office or be
employed by the Borough or act as a paid consultant to the Borough, either
during his term of office or until after the expiration of his term of office,
if for any reason he does not complete said term.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 303)
§ 304. ELECTION AND PROCEDURE.
   1.   The election of members of Council shall be held on the general
municipal election day as established from time to time by the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The procedure for nomination and election of
members of Council shall he as established by the general laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for municipal elections.
   2.   The first election of members of Council under this Charter shall be
held on the date of the municipal election in the year 1995. Three members of
Council shall be elected for a term beginning the first Monday of January 1996.
The three members of Council elected in 1993 under prior law shall remain in
offioe for the full terms for which they were originally elected as provided in
§§
1902 and
1904 of this Charter. Three members of Council plus the Mayor shall then be
elected in the year 1997 for a term beginning the first Monday of January 1998.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 304)
§ 305. TERMS.
   1.   Ward I will elect two Council members. One Council member will serve a
2 year term and one Council member will serve a 4 year term.
   2.   Ward 2 will elect two Council members. One Council member will serve a
2 year term arid one Council member will serve a 4 year term.
   3.   Ward 3 will elect two Council members. One Council member will serve a
2 year term and one Council member will serve a 4 year term.
   4.   The Borough of Portage will elect a Mayor at large to serve a 4 year
term. (Charter, 5/10/1994, § 305)
§ 306. ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   1.   The Council shall organize at 8:00 p.m. on the first Monday of January
of each even numbered year. If the first Monday is a legal holiday, the meeting
and organization shall take place the first day following at the same time and
place.
   2.   At this organizational meeting, the Council shall elect one of its
members President, who shall hold such office at the pleasure of Council. It
shall also elect one of its members to fill the office of Vice President, who
shall hold such office at the pleasure of Council. If either office of
President or Vice President is vacated for any reason at any time, the vacancy
shall be filled at the next monthly meeting. If the Vice President of Council
is eleoted to fill a vacancy in the office of President of Council, the vacancy
created in the office of Vice President may be filled at the same meeting.
   3.   At this organizational meeting, Borough Council shall appoint the
Solicitor; Police Chief; Engineer; Street Commissioner; members., as
applicable, of authorities; Earned Income Tax Collector; Emergency Management
Director; electorate member of the Vacancy Board; and other appointments to
commissions and boards. At this organizational meeting, Borough Council shall
immediately establish the selection process for the appointment of a Borough
Manager and said position shall be filled within 30 days from the date of the
said meeting.
   4.   The regular Borough Council meetings will he held at the time, day and
piace as established by Council.
   5.   At this organizational meeting, the Council shall designate a newspaper
of general circulation within the Borough for the publication of official
notices.
   5.   The Mayor shall aqt as presiding officer only until the office of
President is filled, at which time the new officer will assume the chair.
The Council shall conduct its meetings according to the Roberts Rules of Order,
as amended.
(Charter, 5/1D/1994, § 306)
§ 307. AUTHORITY.
All councilmanic authority shall be asserted by the councilmanic body only No
individual member of Council shall have any authority whatsoever under this
Charter unless such authority is specifically delegated by the Charter or by
the Council acting as a body.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 307)
§ 308. SALARY.
   1.   Each member of Council may receive a salary of $25 per regular monthly
meeting attended. Increases or decreases shall be permitted as provided under §
501 of this Charter. Council members must attend the regularly scheduled
meeting in order to receive the salary designated unless he has a legitimate
reason, such as work, illness or death in immediate family.
2.    Members of Council shall receive no other compensation, direct or
indirect, for the performance of their duties; they shall receive no pensions,
insurance or other forms of fringe benefits. However, they shall be entitled to
their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, and shall be
entitled to indemnification as provided in §
1202 of
Article XII of this Charter. Actual expenses shall include mileage for use of
personal vehicle at current Department of Transportation rates, meals, lodging
and parking, if necessary.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 308)
ARTICLE IV
OPERATION AND PROCEDURES OF BOROUGH COUNCIL
§ 401. MEETINGS.
It shall be the duty of the Council to meet statedly at least once a month.
Council may adjourn to a stated time for general business or for special
business. If no quorum is present at a regular or adjourned meeting, a majority
of those who do meet may agree upon anothen date for a meeting and may continue
to so agree until the meeting is held. Speqial meetings may be called by the
President of Council and must be called upon written request of at least three
members thereof. Members shall have at least 24 hours notice of such special
meeting. The notice shall state whether it is for general or special purposes,
and if it is for special purposes, the notice shall contain a statement of the
nature of the business to be considered. Presence at a meeting constitutes
waiver of notice. The dates of regular meetings of the Borough Council are to
be published at least annually in a newspaper of wide circulation.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 401)
§ 402. RECORDS.
Council shall make and preserve minutes and records of its proceedings. These
records shall be open for public inspection during reasonable hours and copies
furnished to individuals upon payment of the reasonable photocopy expense.
Council must also make a tape recording of all Council meetings in their
entirety. These tapes must he retained for at least 7 years. Council meetings
may be broadcast either by audio or visual methods as may be available. All
records of the Borough Council should be retained or disposed of according to
the Uniform Records Act of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 402)
§ 403. PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   1.   All meetings and deliberations of the Council shall be open to the
public except that the Council may discuss in executive session matters
pertaining to elected or appointed officials, individual employees, collective
bargaining, matters of land acquisition and investigation and settlement of
suits for claims, as provided fon in the Sunshine Act of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. It is the intent of this Charter that all matters affecting the
public shall be discussed in meetings that are open to the public.
   2.   Any person making offensive, insulting, threatening, insolent,
slanderous or obscene remarks or who becomes boisterous or who makes threats
against any person or against public order and security while in the Council
Chamber shall be forthwith barred by the presiding officer from further
audience at the meeting unless permission to continue be granted by the
majority vote of the Council members present and may he removed from the room.
   3.   The agenda of business of the Council meetings shall be made available
in the Borough offices at least 24 hours before the meeting.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 403)
§ 404. OPERATING RULES.
   1.   The Counqil shall, by ordinanqe, except as herein provided, adopt rules
of procedure for its meetings and may provide for the formation of committees
and assignment of members thereto. Such rules shall be designed to assure full
arid equal partiqipation in the deliberations of the Council by all of its
members. Council shall adopt and utilize the Roberts Rules of Order, as
amended, for its rules of procedure regarding adoption of ordinances and
resolutions.
   2.   The presiding officer shall be responsible for the orderly conduct of
business at each Council meeting arid shall preserve order and decorum at such
meetings.
   3.   The presiding officer shall announce all decisions of the Council and
shall decide all questions by order without debate; subject, however, to an
appeal by any Council member. Any ruling by the presiding officer may be
overruled by a majority of the members present.
   4.   Every member of the Council desiring to speak shall address the chair
and, upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine remarks to the
question under debate, avoiding all indecorous language or reference to
personalities. A member of the Council, once recognized, shall not be
interrupted when speaking unless it is for the purpose of calling such person
to order. If a member of the Council, while speaking, is called to order, that
person shall cease speaking until the question of order is determined. When two
or more members request the floor at the same time, the presiding officer shall
name the one entitled to the floor.
   5.   Borough Council shall conduct business in this order:
      A.   Roll call.
      B.   Borough Manager's report.
      C.   Correspondence.
      D.   Citizens input on agenda items.
      E.   Minutes of previous meeting.
      F.   Bills and Treasurer's report.
      G.   Report of municipal officials, committees and/or special groups,
commissions, authorities, etc.
      H.   Unfinished business.
      I.   New business.
      J.   Citizens input on nonagenda items.
      K.   Good of the Borough.
   6.   It is the intention of this Article that the Borough Council shall act
in all matters as a body, and it is contrary to the spirit of this Article for
any of its members to seek individually to influence the official acts of the
Borough Manager, or any pther officer or for the Council or any of its members
to direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from
office, or to interfere in any way with the performance by such officers of
their duties. The Council and its members shall deal with the administrative
servioe solely through the Borough Manager and shall not give orders to any
subordinates of the Borough Manager, either publicly or privately Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the Borough Council from appointing committees
or commissions of its own members or of citizens to conduct investigations into
the conduct of any officer or department, or to any matter relating to the
welfare of the Borough, and delegating to such committees or commissions such
powers of inquiry as the Borough Council may deem necessary.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 404)
§ 405. ADVERTISEMENT OF APPOINTED POSITIONS.
Council shall advertise all appointed positions at least 30 days prior to the
organizational meeting of Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 405)
§ 406. QUORUM.
Five members of Council shall qonstitute a quorum. The Council shall conduct no
business except in the presence of a quorum.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 406)
§ 407. MAJORITY ACTION.
The action of a majority of the members of Council shall be required to pass
all legislation. Five members of Council shall constitute a quorum and four
members must vote approval for passage of legislation.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 407)
§ 408. FORM OF ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   1.   Official actions of Council may be taken by adoption of an ordinance,
resolution or by motion. All ordinances and/or resolutions must be in written
form and available for review by Council and the public 24 hours prior to the
official meeting. All actions of a legislative character shall be taken by
ordinance. All other actions of Council may be by resolution or motion, unless
otherwise required in this Charter, or in the ordinance establishing the rules
of councilmanic procedure. All official votes of the Council shall be taken
openly and recorded.
   2.   All final action in adopting ordinances or resolutions shall be by roll
call vote, and the vote of each member of Council shall be entered in the
minutes of the meeting. No Counqil member shall abstain from voting unless a
direct conflict of interest is stated and included in the minutes of the
meeting.
   3.   The Borough Manager shall provide an index of Borough Council's actions
to include date, title, action taken and summary for readily accessible
reference, when required.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 408)
§ 409. VACANCIES.
   1.   If the office of a member of Council or the Mayor shall become vacant
upon his death, resignation, removal from the Borough, removal from office in
any manner authorized by law or this Charter, or forfeiture of his office, or
for failure to assume such office after election thereto within 45 days after
the commencement of the term thereof. A member of Council or the Mayor shall
forfeit his office if he lacks at any time during his term of office any
qualifioation for the office prescribed by this Charter or by law or is
convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude or is absent from at
least two consecutive regular meetings of the Council without reasonable cause.
   2.   In the case of forfeiture of office, Council shall declare that office
vacant by a majority vote on a resolution duly made and seconded at a public
meeting. Passage of a resolution of forfeiture shall authorize the President of
Council to dispatch written notice of such resolution to the member at his
Borough residence address. The member of Council or the Mayor may request a
public hearing by advising the President of Council in writing within 10 days
after reoeipt of written notice. A hearing shall be held at the next regularly
scheduled meeting and another vote taken on the resolution of forfeiture
immediately after the hearing at the same meeting. After the hearing or upon
failure of the member to respond within 20 days from dispatch. of written
notice, the office shall be declared vacant.
(Charter, 5/10/7994, § 409)
§ 410. FILLING OF VACANCIES.
If a vacancy shall occur in the office of a member of Counoil or the Mayor for
any reason as set forth in this Charter, the Council shall fill said vacancy
for the balance of the unexpired term by observing the following procedure:
      A.   Notice of the vacancy shall he read aloud at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Council following the occasion of the vacancy and
within 10 days of this meeting shall be:
         (1)   Posted in conspicuous places in the Borough offices.
         (2)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Borough.
      B.   Said notice shall contain a schedule of the times and place Council
will conduct public interviews of all qualified candidates and shall include an
invitation to any qualified Borough resident who desires consideration to
schedule a publio interview with Council by informing the Borough Manager, or
his representative, within 10 days of publication of said notice. The Borough
Manager shall inform the President of Council, or the acting President of
Council, of all candidates to be interviewed.
      C.   At a regularly scheduled meeting, held within 33 days after
publication of said notice, Council shall fill the vacancy by appointing from
the candidates interviewed that candidate who receives the majority of votes of
the Council members. If the Borough Council shall refuse, fail or neglect, or
be unable, for any reason whatsoever, to fill any vacancy within 30 days after
the vacancy happens, as provided in this Section, then the vacancy shall be
filled within 5 additional days by the Vacancy Board. Such Board shall consist
of two Borough Council members and one registered elector of the Borough who
shall be appointed by the Borough Council at the Council's first meeting each
calendar year, or as soon thereafter as practical, and who shall act as
Chairman of the Vacancy Board. The Board shall appoint a registered elector of
the Borough to hold such office, if the term thereof continues so long, until
the first Monday in January after the first municipal eleotion occurring more
than 60 days after the vacancy occurs, at which election an eligible person
shall be elected to the office for the remainder of the term. If the vacancy is
not filled by the Vacancy Board within 5 days, the Chairman shall, or in the
case of a vacancy in the chairmanship, the remaining members of the Vacancy
Board shall petition the Court of Common Pleas to fill the vacancy by the
appointment of a registered elector of the Borough to hold such office, if the
term thereof continues so long, until the first Monday in January after the
first municipal election occurring more than 60 days after the vacancy occurs,
at which election an eligible person shall be elected to the offioe for the
remainder of the term. In the case where :here are vacancies in more than a
majority of the offices of Council, the Court of Common Pleas shall fill such
vacancies upon presentation of petition signed by not less than 15 registered
electors of the Borough.
      D.   Counoil members who have been appointed to fill vacancies may stand
for reelection at the next general municipal election if they so desire.
      E.   If an incumbent loses reelection in the last general election, he/
she "rill not be eligible for reappointment to a vacant Council position for 2
years.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 410)
§ 411. OATH OF OFFICE.
A member of Council and the Mayor, prior to assuming office, shall take and
shall sign an oath of office as shall from time to time be prescribed by the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Such oath may be taken and signed
before any judge, district magistrate or notary public of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, and no person shall be permitted to assume such office until the
oath, in written form, is filed with the Borough.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 411)
§ 412. CITIZENS' RIGHT TO BE HEARD.
The Council shall provide reasonable opportunity for interested citizens and
taxpayers to address the Council on matters of general or special concern at
either the regular or special meeting set aside for this purpose. Citizens will
be given a 5 minute time limit to address the Borough Council, but with the
approval of the majority of the Council, an additional 10 minutes may be
granted. Council should take immediate steps to resolve the issue as soon as
possible and provide a written response within 10 days.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 412)
ARTICLE V
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 501. CERTAIN SPECIFIC ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
In addition to any other actions required by law or by this Charter to be taken
by ordinance, those actions of the Borough Council shall be by ordinance which:
      A.   Establish, alter or abolish any Borough department, office or agency
and related regulator procedures for each.
      B.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed.
      C.   Adopt or amend a code establishing a personnel policy for the
Borough.
      D.   Adopt an ordinance for the conveyance or sale of any lands of the
Borough.
      E.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted.
      F.   Establish salaries or wages, hours or benefits of any employees or
appointees of the Borough.
      G.   Adopt or amend an Administrative Code.
      H.   Adopt (§
1406) or modify (§
1407) the Borough budget.
      I.   To create and maintain a separate capital reserve fund for any
anticipated legal capital expenditures, which fund shall be designated for a
specific purpose or purposes at the time of its creation. The money in the fund
shall be used, from time to time, for the construction, purchase or replacement
of or addition to municipal buildings, equipment, machinery, motor vehicles or
other capital assets of the Borough as specified at the time of the creation of
the fund and for no other purpose. Provided, that it may be used for capital
expenditure other than the purpose or purposes specified al the time it was
created if Borough Council, by five votes, shall declare that the original
purpose or purposes have become impraoticable, inadvisable or impossible, or
that conditions have arisen in the Borough which make other capital
expenditures more urgent than those for which the fund was created. The Council
may appropriate moneys from the general Borough funds to be paid into the
capital reserve fund, or place in the fund any moneys received from the sale,
lease or other disposition of any Borough property on from any other source
unless received or aoquired for a particular purpose. The fund shall be
controlled, invested, reinvested and administered and the moneys therein and
income from such moneys expended for the specific purpose or purposes for which
the fund is created in such manner as may he determined by the Council. The
money in the fund, when invested, shall be invested in securities designated by
law as legal investments for sinking funds of municipalities.
      J.   Borrow money when deemed necessary for the orderly administration of
the business of the Borough.
         (1)   Provision regulating borrowing shall not be applicable to any
tax anticipation requirements in accordance with the Unit Debt Act of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
         (2)   Provided, however, if in the opinion of the Borough Manager, a
piece (or pieces) of equipment or Borough property (properties) necessary to
the preservation of the health and welfare of the Borough is in the state of
disrepair and no longer can be repaired for use, the cap on borrowing
heretofore stated shall be raised tp the amount to allow competitive bidding
through ordinary channels.
         (3)   It is further provided that if there are sufficient funds in the
capital reserve fund, which is hereby established on behalf of the Borough, and
the said fund has sufficient balance to make payment for equipment, then the
purchase can be made by use of these funds.
      K.   Enact ordinances pertaining to any other matters not contrary to the
laws of the Commonwealth which may appear to Council to be proper.
      L.   Vacate public streets provided, however, that 500% of the adjoining
property owners abutting the street shall be required to approve the vacation
and they shall be required to sign a waiver of liability for any liability from
any damages whatsoever as result of vacation in favor of the Borough.
      M.   Raise or lower the salaries of the Mayor and/or Borough Council at
the maximum rate of 25% every four 4 years.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 501)
§ 502. ENACTING CLAUSE.
The enacting olause of all ordinances shall be: ' The Borough of Portage hereby
ordains:."
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 502)
§ 503. GENERAL ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Every ordinance shall contain the date of its enactment, and its enactment
shall be verified by the signature of the presiding officer of the meeting
where final action thereon was taken. The official seal of the Borough shall be
affixed to the original copy of each ordinance. However, failure on the part of
the presiding officer to sign an ordinance or affix the official seal shall not
in any way invalidate an otherwise valid ordinance.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 503)
§ 504. PENALTY.
The penalty for the violation of any ordinance shall not exceed $600 for each
violation, or 30 days imprisonment in default of payment of fine. A first
offense shall be at least $50, the second offense $100, the third offense $200,
and so forth to the maximum of $600 for each offense. However, any ordinance
may provide that for continuing violations, each day that a violation exists
may be regarded as a separate offense and punishable as such. The limit of
fines may be increased by Counoil to the extent of the maximum fine that may be
levied by any noncharter municipality in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as
that limit is from time to time established by the General Assembly. Council
may, at its will, change the maximum fine for violation of ordinances.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 504)
§ 505. ORDINANCES REQUIRING PRIOR PUBLIC NOTICE.
No final action shall be taken on the following types of ordinances and/or
amendments thereto without public hearing thereon and after public notice as
hereinafter set forth:
      A.   Zoning ordinance and amendment thereto.
      B.   Ordinance adopting a zoning map and amendments thereto.
      C.   Ordinance adopting subdivision regulations.
      D.   Ordinance adopting land development and land use regulations.
      E.   Ordinances imposing existing rates of taxation or levying new taxes
or increasing or decreasing the rate of existing taxes. Public hearings are
required for all tax action. However, due process of law shall be followed.
      F.   Ordinances providing fpr the annexation of territory or
consolidation of municipalities, if penmitted by law.
      G.   Ondinances adopting codes of technical regulations, such as a
building code, housing code, fire prevention code and plumbing code and the
like.
      H.   Ordinances providing for construction of sewers, or of sewer
treatment works outside of the Borough.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 505)
§ 506. PUBLIC NOTICE.
There shall be a notice published 1 week in a newspaper of general oirculation
in the Borough. Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and
the particular nature of the matter to be considered at the hearing. The
publication shall not be more than 30 days or less than 14 days from the date
of the hearing.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 536)
§ 507. AMENDMENT AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
After public hearing on the proposed ordinance after public notioe as required,
the proposed ordinance may be revised, or further revised, provided there are
no substantial substantive changes therein, and provided, in the case of the
Zoning Ordinance, or amendments thereto, the ordinance is also not revised or
further revised to include land previously not affected thereby. In the event
of a substantial substantive change in any such ordinance, or in the event that
the Zoning Ordinance or amendment thereto is revised or further revised to
include land previously not affected thereby, the Borough Council shall hold
another public hearing, pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to finally
vote on the proposed ordinance or amendment thereto.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 507)
§ 508. CONTENT OF PUBLIC NOTICE.
Public notice of proposed ordinances or amendments to ordinances shall include
either the full text of the matter to be considered, or a brief summary setting
forth the principal provisions in reasonable detail, and with a reference to a
place within the Borough where copies of proposed ordinances or amendments or
other documents to be considered by the Council, may be examined and reproduced
upon payment of a reasonable fee. In addition, there will be a reference to the
time and place of hearing or meeting at which the matter will be considered by
Council.
(Charter 5 /10/1994. § 508)
§ 509. PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCE.
After adoption, all ordinances shall be published one time in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Borough. The full text of the ordinance need not be
published; instead the title or a general summary of the substance of the
ordinance will be sufficient to meet publication requirement. Publication shall
occur within 30 days of the enactment of the ordinance. The effective date of
the ordinance shall be the publication date unless a later date is specified in
the ordinance, or required by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Complaints as to the legality of any ordinance or resolution shall be made to
the Court of Common Pleas of Cambria County by an aggrieved party within 30
days after the enactment thereof.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 509)
§ 510. RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
All ordinances and resolutions of the Borough shall be entered verbatim in
permanent separate record books for ordinances and resolutions. No ordinance
shall be oonsidered in force until the same is necorded in the ordinance book.
The ordinanoe book and the resolution book shall be open and available for
public inspection at reasonable hours. These books shall be in the custody and
control of the Borough Manager in the Borough office, and all entries made
therein shall be at the direction of the Borough Manager. At the time any such
ordinance is entered into the ordinance book, the same shall be codified; and a
topical index shall be maintained by the Borough Manager for such purposes.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 510)
§ 511. ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
The Council shall, within 6 months after the effective date of this Charter,
adopt an ordinanoe to be known as the Administrative Code defining the
responsibilities of munioipal departments, offices and agencies as the Council
deems necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of municipal affairs to
the extent that such matters are not inconsistent with the Charter and with
existing applicable laws.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 511)
§ 512. EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the publio
peace, the Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, which may be
adopted without prior notice and may be made effective immediately An emergency
ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed or ordinances
generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance
and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an
emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. After its
adoption, the ordinance shall be published and printed as prescribed for other
adopted ordinances. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later
time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand
repealed as of the sixty-first day following the date on which it was adopted,
but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified
in this Section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also
be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified
in this Section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 512)
§ 513. CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
The Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference
thereto in an adopting ordinance. The prooedure and requirements governing suqh
an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed in §
505 of this Charter. A copy of each adopted qode of technical regulations as
well as of the adopting ordinance shall be authenticated and recorded.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 513)
ARTICLE VI
INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS BY COUNCIL
§ 601. INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS.
The Council shall have power, by resolution, to authorize inquiries and
investigations to be oonducted by the entire body or by any of its oommittees
in aid of its powers and functions.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 601)
§ 602. WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS.
The Council may compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
papers or other evidence at any meeting of the Council, and for that purpose
may issue subpoenas, signed by the President of Council, and cause the same to
be served in any part of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In the event any
witness, having been properly subpoenaed, fails or neglects to comply with the
subpoena, Council is authorized to apply to the court of competent jurisdiction
for enforcement of its subpoena.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 602)
§ 603. OATHS OF WITNESSES.
Any person called as a witness, as provided in this Article, may be examined
under oath, administered by the President of Council or chairman of the
committee, and for the giving of false testimony shall be liable to indictment
and punishment for perjury.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 603)
§ 604. WITNESS FEES.
All persons subpoenaed shall be required to respond to the same and shall
receive the same mileage and/or witness fees, equal to those then established
by the General Assembly for witnesses in the Court of Common Pleas.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 604)
ARTICLE VII
MAYOR
§ 701. DUTIES.
The Mayor shall be the ceremonial head and official representative of the
Borough of Portage.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 701)
§ 702. EMERGENCY POWERS.
He shall have any emergency powers as defined by the Emergency Management Act.
Moreover, the Mayor may appoint special police with full police powers and
jurisdiction for the duration of an emergency in which the safety and welfare
of the Borough are endangered. The emergency powers are not to exceed a period
of 7 days. The compensation of the special police shall be fixed by Council
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 702)
§ 703. DEPUTY MAYOR.
The President of Counoil shall act as Mayor during the absence or disability of
the Mayor. The Mayor must inform the President of Council of any intended
absences from duties for a period exceeding 3 days. In the event the Mayor is
absent in excess of 3 days, the President of Council shall act as Mayor.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 703)
§ 704. QUALIFICATIONS OF THE MAYOR.
The Mayor shall be a citizen of the United States, a registered elector at the
time of candidacy and, during his term, a resident of the Borough for at least
6 months prior to candidacy and during his term, and must be at least 18 years
of age when elected or appointed to office.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 734)
§ 705. PROHIBITIONS.
The Mayor shall not hold any other compensated Borough office or be employed by
the Borough or aot as a paid consultant to the Borough, either during his term
of office or until after the expiration of his term of office, if for any
reason lie does not complete said term.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 705)
§ 706. TERM.
The Mayor shall be elected by the qualified electors of the Borough at large
for a term of 4 years, commencing at 8:00 p.m. on the first Monday of Januany
following the year in which he is elected and ending when his successor is
certified and assumes office, except that the Mayor appointed to fill a vacancy
shall serve only for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Chanter, 5/10/1994, § 706)
§ 707. ELECTION AND PROCEDURE.
   1.   The election of a Mayor shall be held on the general municipal election
day as established from time to time by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. The prooedure for nomination and election of the Mayor shall be
established by the general laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for
municipal elections.
   2.   The first election of a Mayor under this Charter shall be held on the
date of the municipal election in the year 1997 for a term beginning the first
Monday of January 1998. The Mayor elected in 1993 under prior law shall remain
in office for the full term for which he was originally elected as provided in
§
1902 of this Charter.
(Charter, 5/10/1994. § 707)
§ 708. POWERS, DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
The Mayor shall have the following specific powers, duties and authority:
      A.   The Mayor will be a voting member of Council and may attend meetings
of committees thereof and shall have an equal right with members of Council to
vote and participate in their deliberations.
      B.   He shall have the duty to preserve order in the Borough only in an
emergency.
      C.   He shall have the duty to sign such papers, contracts, obligations
and documents that are properly presented to him, as may be required by this
Charter.
      D.   He may report to the Council from time to time regarding the state
of affairs of the Borough.
      E.   He shall have the authority to appoint and dissolve voluntary
committees of interested citizens to assist and advise him on issues and
matters pertaining to his office. The committee members shall serve without
compensation.
      F.   He shall have the duty to administer oaths and affirmations in all
Borough business except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
      G.   Council may assign such other rights and duties to the Mayor whioh
are not contrary to any law now or hereafter enacted or contradictory of any
other provision of this Charter.
      H.   The Mayor on his own initiative and in conjunction with the Borough
Manager may initiate projects for the betterment of the community. The Mayor
must obtain Council's approval before proceeding with the projeot.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 708)
§ 709. SALARY.
   1.   The Mayor may receive a regular meeting salary at the rate of $25 per
month. Increases on decreases shall be permitted as provided under §
501 of this Charter. The Mayor must attend the regularly scheduled meetings in
order to receive the salary designated unless he has a legitimate reason, such
as work, illness or death in immediate family.
   2.   The Mayor shall receive no other compensation, direct or indirect, for
the performance of his duties; he shall receive no pensions, insurance or other
forms of fringe benefits. However, the Mayor shall be entitled to the actual
expenses incurred in the performance of his duties, and shall be entitled to
indemnification as provided in this Charter. Actual expenses shall include
mileage for use of personal vehicle at current Department of Transportation
rates, meals, lodging and parking, if neoessary
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 709)
ARTICLE VIII
BOROUGH MANAGER
§ 801. APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint a Borough Manager for an indefinite term and shall
fix his compensation. He must have the minimum qualifications of 8 years of
experience as a borough manager or assistant borough manager, an associate
degree in public administration or related field and at least 4 years of
experience, a bachelor degree in public administration or related field and at
least 2 years of experience, or a masters degree in public administration or
related field without experience. Counqil may add additional qualifications for
the position of Borough Manager before advertising the position if they so
chose. He need not be a resident of the County at the time of his appointment.
He must establish residency in Cambria County within 6 months of his
appointment.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 801)
§ 802. REMOVAL.
The Council may remove the Borough Manager at any time with cause. Borough
Council, upon declaring a vacancy in the office of the Borough Manager, shall
immediately begin the search to fill the position and fill the opening within
60 days.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, 5802)
§ 803. ACTLNG BOROUGH MANAGER.
During the period of any vacancy in the office of Borough Manager or during the
period of his absence or incapacity, the Council may appoint any one of its own
members or any other officer or employee of the Borough as acting Borough
Manager. The acting Borough Manager shall then exercise the powers and perform
the duties of the Borough Manager and receive compensation at a rate to be set
by Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 803)
§ 804. POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOROUGH MANAGER.
The Borough Manager shall he the chief administrative officer of the Borough.
The Borough Manager shall not hold any elected or appointed governmental
offices. He shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all
Borough affairs placed in his charge or order under this Charter.
      A.   He shall supervise and be responsible for the activities of all
municipal departments.
      B.   He shall hire, suspend or discharge all employees under his
supervision and he shall report at the next meeting of the Council any action
taken by authority of this subsection.
      C.   He shall prepare and submit to the Council a budget for the next
fiscal year and an explanatory budget message. In preparing the budget, the
Borough Manager, or an officer designated by him, shall obtain from the head of
each department, agency, board or officer estimates of revenues and
expenditures and other supporting data as he requests. The Borough Manager
shall review such estimates and may revise them before submitting the budget to
the Council.
      D.   He shall be responsible for the administration of the budget after
its adoption by the Council.
      E.   He shall be responsible to Council for the laws, ordinances and
resolutions of the Borough.
      F.   He shall perform the duties of the Secretary-Treasurer of the
Borough in causing appropriate records to be made, preserved and certified, as
required by law or action of the Council. He shall attest the execution of all
documents and record all ordinances and resolutions and he shall have custody
of the municipal and corporate seal. He shall, where required, acknowledge and
execute documents as Secretary-Treasurer of the Borough. He may hire a clerk/
typist either part or full-time within the amount provided for in the budget.
      G.   He shall attend all meetings of the Council and may attend meetings
of committees thereof. He shall have the right to take part in the discussions
but shall have no vote. If he is unable to attend a meeting of Council, he
shall have the right to appoint a qualified designate in his behalf.
      H.   He shall prepare the agenda for each meeting of the Council and
supply the facts pertinent thereto, and shall see that the agenda is available
in the Borough offices at least 24 hours before the meeting.
      I.   He shall keep the Council informed as to the conduct of the Borough
affairs, submit monthly reports to Council on the condition of the Borough
finances and such other reports as the Council requests, and make such
recommendations to the Council as he deems necessary. The Borough Manager shall
have the authority to invest funds, subject to the direction and approval of
the Borough Council.
      J.   He shall submit to the Council, as soon as possible after the close
of the fiscal year, a complete report on the financial and administrative
activities of the Borough for the preceding year. The Borough Manager shall
cause to be prepared a summary of actual revenue and expenditures on a
comparison basis with the budget to reflect the budgeted and the actual
expenditures as well as the anticipated and actual income from revenue
providing the financial resources for the expenditures. Within 30 days of the
fiscal year's end, the Borough Manager shall prepare a comparison report of
actual income and expenses with the budget for information purposes and have
the completed report published in a newspaper of local circulation.
      K.   He shall see that the provisions of all franchises, leases, permits
and privileges granted by the Borough are observed and report any violation
thereof to the Council.
      L.   He may employ, by and with approval of the Council, experts and
consultants to perform work and to advise in connection with any of the
functions of the Borough.
      M.   He shall attend to the letting of contraqts authorized by Council in
due form of law, and shall supervise the performance and faithful execution of
the same except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed upon some other
Borough officer, subject to §
1501.
      N.   He shall see that all money owed the Borough is promptly paid and
the proper proceedings are taken for the security and collection of all the
Borough's qlaims.
      O.   He shall be the purchasing officer of the Borough and he shall
purchase all supplies and equipment for the various agencies, boards,
departments, and other offices of the Borough. He shall keep an account of all
purchases and shall, from time to time or when directed by the Council, make a
full written report thereof. He shall also issue rules and regulations–subject
to the approval of the Council–governing the requisition and purchasing of all
municipal supplies and equipment. He shall be responsible for the
implementation and operation of the purchase order system in the Borough.
      P.   He shall provide annually, by September 1, an inventory, valuation
and condition of the Borough property. This inventors' shall be provided to the
Borough auditors by the second Monday of each January for inclusion in their
findings. He also shall provide the Borough records to the Borough auditors by
the second Monday of each January.
      Q.   He shall have the power to investigate, examine or inquire into the
affairs or operation of any department, division, bureau or office under his
authority. He shall not interfere with any ongoing official investigation.
      R.   He shall be responsible for investigating and handling all
complaints, which must be in writing, regarding services or personnel of the
Borough, and shall report thereon to the Council. If he cannot resolve the
complaint satisfactorily to the complainant, that complaint shall be referred
to the Borough Council fcr resolution. All complaints concerning the Police
Department shall be referred to the Chief of Police.
      S.   He may collect and shall receive, account for and deposit into the
Borough account all taxes, fees, assessments or oharges that are levied or
established by the Borough for general or special purposes. Such deposits shall
be made not later than the first business day following the day in which they
are received. If a school district or any other taxing body empowered to
collect taxes within the Borough enters into an agreement with the Borough for
the collection of said taxes, he shall be responsible for collecting these
taxes; however, all fees for such collection shall be paid to the Borough
accounts. Borough Council may either retain the current method electing and/or
appointing any and all tax collectors as provided for by the Borough Code or
may delegate said duties to the Borough Manager under the provisions set forth
in the Home Rule Charter. Any changes to either the appointed or eleoted
offices must take place after expiration of terms.
      T.   He shall administer and enforce all laws and ordinances of the
Borough except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, and shall be
responsible to the Council for carrying out all policies established by it for
the proper administration of all affairs of the Borough within the jurisdiction
of the Council.
      U.   He shall not be entitled to any compensation in addition to his
stated compensation for exercising any power or duty conferred upon him by this
Charter or by law. He will be entitled to actual expenses to perform his
duties. Actual expenses shall include mileage for use of personal vehicle at
current Department of Transportation rates, meals, lodging and parking, if
necessary.
      V.   He shall appoint, with the consent of Borough Council, members to
all boards and commissions as authonized by law.
      W.   He shall be a member ex officio of boards, commissions, committees
or other operating advisory boards as directed by Borough Council. As a member,
he shall have the right to participate in discussions or deliberations, but he
shall not have the right to vote. The Borough Manager shall report to Council
on the planning and activities of those Boards to which he is Council's
designated member.
      X.   He shall perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter
or may be required by the Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 804)
ARTICLE IX
BOROUGH SOLICITOR
§ 901. APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint a Borough Soliqitor at eaqh organizational meeting,
occurring every 2 years, and fix his compensation at that time. The Solicitor
shall be an official of the Borough and shall be appointed either on a full-
time basis or a part-time basis or on a retainer or hourly basis, and shall
serve the Borough as needed and required. The Solicitor or his designate shall
be required to attend all regular or special meetings in their entirety to
advise Council in order to be compensated. The Borough Solicitor shall be
admitted to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and shall have at least 5 years
of experience in active legal practice in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
shall be a graduate of an accredited school of law.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 901)
§ 902. REMOVAL.
The Council may remove the Borough Solicitor at any time, with or without
cause. (Charter, 5/10/1994, § 902)
§ 903. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
The Borough Solicitor may from time to time perform the duties of the office by
delegation of authority to lawyers with the same qualifications as the
Solicitor to act as designated agents in the performance of the duties.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 903)
§ 904. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOROUGH SOLICITOR.
The Borough Solicitor shall be the chief legal officer of the Borough. He shall
have the following powers and duties:
      A.   The Borough Solicitor shall furnish legal advice to the Council, to
the Borough Manager and to all other elected or appointed officers, boards and
commissions concerning any matter or thing arising in connection with the
exercise of their official powers or performance of their official duties and,
except as otherwise expressly provided by the Council, shall supervise, direct
and control all of the law work of the Borough.
      B.   Tne Borough Solicitor shall collect, by suit or otherwise, all
debts, taxes and accounts due the Borough which shall be placed with him or her
for collection by Council, the Borough Manager, official, officer, department,
board or commission, and shall represent the Council, Borough Manager and every
official, officer, department, board or commission in all litigation arising
from official duties, unless his or her representation in litigation of an
official, officer, department, board or oommission conflicts with his
representation of the Borough.
      C.   He shall prepare, review or approve all contracts, bonds and other
instruments in writing in which the Borough is concerned, and shall approve all
surety bonds required to be given for the protection of the Borough.
      D.   At the direction of the Borough Manager or the Council, he shall
investigate any violation or alleged violation within the Borough of statutes
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or of the United States of America or of
ordinanoes of the Borough or the County, and shall take such steps and adopt
such means as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to enforce or oause
the enforcement within the Borough of such statutes and ordinances.
      E.   Upon the request of the Counoil, of the chairman of any committee of
Council or of the Borough Manager, the Borough Solicitor shall prepare or
assist in preparing any ordinanoe or resolution for presentation before the
Counoil. Any ordinance or resolution should be in writing and given to the
Borough Manager prion to the meeting.
      F.   At the direction of the Council or Borough Manager, he shall appear
for and represent the Borough, its officials, officers, employees and
appointees, or, if appropriate, the residents of the Borough as a class, on
matters before the courts or various regulatory agencies of other governmental
bodies.
      G.   The Borough Solicitor shall provide legal opinions in writing
regarding any legal matter or question submitted by the Borough Council, its
committees, or the Borough Manager.
      H.   If, in the opinion of the majority of members of Borough Council, an
apparent conflict of interest appears to exist between the Borough Solicitor
and members of the law firm of which he is part regarding the clients, then in
said Event, Borough Council shall appoint an acting solicitor for the business
in question only.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 904)
§ 905. ACCESS TO RECORDS.
The Borough Solicitor shall have the right of access at all times to all
records of the Borough including those in possession of any official, officer,
department, board, commission or authority.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 905)
ARTICLE X
BOROUGH ENGINEER
§ 1001. APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint a Borough Civil Engineer at the organizational
meeting every 2 years arid shall fix the compensation at the same time. The
Engineer may be an official of the Borough and shall be appointed either on a
full-time basis or a part-time basis or on a retainer basis, and shall serve
the Borough as needed and required. The Borough Engineer shall have at least a
Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering from an accredited engineering
school, shall have at least 5 years of experience as a registered engineer and
shall be a currently registered engineer in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
If the Borough Engineer cannot attend the Council meeting, his representative
shall have the same qualifications.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1001)
§ 1002. REMOVAL.
The Council may remove the Borough Engineer at any time, with or without cause.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1002)
ARTICLE XI
AUTHORITIES
§ 1101. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITIES.
All municipal authorities organized or formed prior to the time this Charter
takes effect and actively functioning at the time this Charter takes effect
shall not be affected hereby and shall continue in full force and effect.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1101)
ARTICLE XII
PERSONNEL
§ 1201. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
The Borough Manager shall establish a personnel system for the Borough based
upon merit. The personnel system shall be established by ordinance. The system
so established shall not be inconsistent with any statute heretofore enacted by
the Commonwealth affecting the rights, benefits or working conditions of the
employees of the Borough.
      A.   He shall supervise personnel policies and practices and fix salaries
and wages of all personnel under his supervision within ranges of those
previously set by Council. He shall set entry-level salaries and make
recommendations for pay increases or bonus payments based on merit or
performance.
      B.   In connection with his executive and administrative power and
duties, he shall directly supervise the heads of the departments in their
respective areas of responsibility arid perform neoessary executive and
administrative functions to provide for the effective administration of the
various departments and responsibilities assigned thereto.
         (1)   He can appoint and have the power to remove department heads and
appoint subordinate officers and employees under procedures established.
         (2)   He shall designate himself or some officer or employee to
perform the duties of any office or position in the administrative service
under the control of the Borough Manager during the vacancy, absence or
disability of the incumbent.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1201)
§ 1202. INDEMNIFICATION.
   1.   The Council of the Borough shall reimburse or indemnify each elected
official, manager, officer, employee and appointee of the Borough for or
against all liabilities and expenses reasonably incurred by or imposed upon any
of them in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or
proceeding, oivil, criminal, administrative or investigative, in which he may
become involved as a party or otherwise by reason of his being or having been
such elected official, officer, manager, employee, or appointee of the Borough.
or by reason of any action taken or not taken in such capacity, whether or not
he continues to be such at the time such liabilities or expenses are incurred,
provided that in respect of any action by or in the right of the Borough, he
was not negligent or guilty of misconduct to the Borough, and in respect of all
other actions he acted in good faith in what he reasonably believed to be in
the best interests of the Borough and in addition to any criminal action, had
no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
   2.   Where he has wholly been successful on the merits in such action, or
where indemnification of him has been awarded by a court, he shall be entitled
to indemnification as of right.
   3.   Otherwise, the Council of the Borough shall reimburse or indemnify him
only if a majority of the members of Council or a court of competent
jurisdiction determine that he has met the standards as set forth hereinabove.
   4.   Moreover, in this regard, Council of the Borough of Portage is hereby
authorized and empowered to enter into contracts of insuranoe or to make other
arrangements for the best interests of the Borough of Portage to provide for
such reimbursement and/or indemnification. Neither the Mayor, Borpugh Manager,
member of Council nor any employee oan obligate the Borough without the
approval of the majority of Counoil.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1202)
§ 1203. PENSION PLANS.
With regard to all uniform or nonuniformed employees, any pension plans in
existence at the time of the adoption of this Charter shall remain in full
force and effect and shall continue to be covered by the provisions of the
Borough Code of Pennsylvania.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1203)
ARTICLE XIII
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 1301.    PURPOSE.
The Police Department of the Borough of Portage, as heretofore established,
shall be for the purpose of keeping peace and order and for the enforcement of
law in the Borough of Portage.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1301)
§ 1302.    APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL, PROMOTION, SUSPENSION AND REDUCTION IN RANK.
   1.   Appointments, removal, promotion, suspension and reduction in rank
regarding part-time police officers of this department shall be handled in
accordance with Local Agency Law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and/or the
Police Tenure Act in order to provide due process for said police personnel;
however, the Borough Manager shall have the responsibility to establish rules
and regulations regarding appointment, removal, promotion, suspension and/or
reduction in rank of any police officer. In the event the Police Department has
less than three men, then in said event the Borough. Council shaL by ordinance
establish standard written testing which shall be administered by the Borough
Manager prior to employment. The Borough Council may define any other
requirements for the filling of this position in addition to requiring the
meeting of minimum standards as defined by Act 120.
   2.   The Council, however, shall retain the power to adopt civil service
regulations in the event it finds it necessary. In the event civil service laws
and rules are adopted, they shall become paramount and apply to the matter
contained in this Section.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1302)
§ 1303. POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   1.   Police employed by the Borough, including full-time police, special
police, special school police, part-time police and auxiliary police shall have
all the powers and protection conferred by statute and ordinance upon members
of the police force of the Borough and upon constables of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. They shall have the power to make lawful searohes, seizures and
arrests for violation of any statutes or ordinances or other laws enforced by
the Borough, to serve subpoenas when ordered to do so by their superior
officers. and to do such other acts as may be required of them by statute or
ordinance.
   2.   The police shall have the authority to serve and execute all criminal
processes for the violation of municipal ordinances which may be issued; and
when serving and executing such criminal processes or subpoenas or serving
warrants, as a constable of the Borough, shall charge the same fees and costs
as he would charge, but they shall be collected by the Borough Manager and paid
into the Treasury of the Borough.
   3.   All police officers are required to wear a badge or shield with the
Borough of Portage identity.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1333)
§ 1304. CONTROL.
The Department shall be under the jurisdiction and supervised control of the
Chief of Police, who is answerable to the Borough Manager. The Borough Manager
may, for cause and without pay, suspend any policeman until the next succeeding
regular meeting of the Council, at which time and thereafter, the Council may,
subject to the civil service provisions applicable to the police, if they be in
effect at that time, suspend, discharge, reduce in rank or reinstate with pay
such polioeman. In any case where the Council has reinstated a policeman, after
having been suspended by the Borough Manager, the Borough Manager shall not
thereafter suspend any such policeman for reasons arising from the same act for
which the first suspension was made, or for the reasons that the Council, in
reinstating such policeman, shall have determined not to be grounds for
suspension.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1304)
§ 1305. COMPENSATION.
   1.   The full-time police, as well as any special police, special school
polioe, part-time police and auxiliary police, shall only receive such
compensation as shall be fixed by the Borough Counqil. However, special police,
special school police, part-time police and auxiliary police shall not come
within the provisions of any civil service laws or regulations applicable to
police and shall not be entitled to participate in any police pension plan or
plans or other programs or plans affording benefits now in effect or hereafter
effective, but shall be entitled to indemnification as provided in §
1202.
   2.   Borough Council will provide funds for police officer training for
upgrading. (Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1305)
§ 1306. PART-TIME POLICE.
Borough Council may appoint part-time police qualified under Act 120 or other
applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and fix their compensation
as set forth in §
1305. While on duty, such part-time police shall be under and subject to the
direction of the Borough Manager and superior offiqers.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1306)
§ 1307. SPECIAL SCHOOL POLICE.
   1.   The Council may, after consultation with the School District, appoint
off-duty poliqe or special school police who shall have the duty of controlling
and directing traffic at or near schools and they shall be in suitable and
distinct uniform, display a badge or other sign of authority. A Borough
policeman may only use his uniform and equipment when in the employ of the
Borough of Portage. If employed by others as a police officer, he shall not be
acting for and on behalf of the Borough and he shall not utilize his uniform
and equipment in performance of non-Borough duties.
   2.   While on duty, special school polioe shall be under and subject to the
direction of the Borough Manager or their superior officers.
   3.   Auxiliary policemen, special policemen, part-time policemen and/or off-
duty policemen may be designated to serve as special school police.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1307)
§ 1308. SPECIAL POLICE.
The Mayor or Borough Manager may appoint special police with full police powers
and jurisdiction for the duration of an emergency in which the safety and
welfare of the Borough or the public are endangered. They shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor or the Borough Manager and while on duty shall he under
and subject to the direction of the Mayor or the Borough Manager and their
superior officers.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1308)
§ 1309. AUXILIARY POLICE.
Auxiliary police may be appointed as provided by general law. While on duty,
they shall be under and subject to the direction of the Borough Manager and
their superior officers.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1309)
§ 1310. CIVIL SERVICE.
In the event Council establishes a Civil Service Commission, then in said
event, provisions of the Borough Code existing in effect shall apply to
substantive law and rules and procedures regarding same.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1310)
§ 1311. MANNER OF FILLING APPOINTMENTS.
Every position of employment in the police force as full or part-time police,
except that of Chief of Police, or the equivalent, shall be filled only in
accordance with civil service provisions, if in effect, of existing law, its
amendments and supplements thereto.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1311)
ARTICLE XIV
BUDGET AND FISCAL MATTERS
§ 1401. FISCAL YEAR.
The fiscal year of the Borough shall begin on the first day of January and end
on the last day of December of each year or as may be established by Council by
ordinance.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1401)
§ 1402. SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
Prior to the end of the fiscal year, the Borough Manager shall begin to prepare
a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year and an accompanying budget
message. Department heads shall provide input and/or recommendations to the
Borough Manager for the ensuing year. The budget process will begin with the
submission of the departmental recommendations for the budget. The Borough
Manager will submit a proposed budget and budget message to the Council at
least 60 days prior to the end of the fiscal year.
(Charter. 5/10/1994, § 1402)
§ 1403. BUDGET.
The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all Borough funds and
aotivities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by this Charter,
shall be in such form as the Council may require. In organizing the budget, the
Borough Manager shall utilize the most practical combination of expenditure
classification by fund, organization unit, program, purpose of activity and
object. The budget shall contain, inter alia, the following:
      A.   It shall begin with a general summary of its contents.
      B.   It shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the
existing and proposed tax levies, as well as other assessments, fees and
charges.
      C.   It shall show all proposed expenditures, including debt service, for
the ensuing fiscal year.
      D.   It shall show the number of proposed employees in every job
classification.
      E.   It shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual
and estimated income and expenditures for the current fiscal year and actual
income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year.
      F.   It shall indicate proposed operating expenditures during the ensuing
fiscal year, detailed by offices, departments and agencies, in terms of their
respective work programs and the methods of finanqing such expenditures.
      G.   It shall indicate proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing
fiscal year, detailed by offices, departments and agencies when practicable,
and the proposed method of financing each such capital expenditure.
      H.   The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of
estimated income.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1403)
§ 1404. BUDGET MESSAGE.
The Borough Manager's message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and
in terms of programs. It shall outline the proposed financial policies of the
Borough for the ensuing fiscal year; desoribe the important features of the
budget; indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies,
expenditures, and revenues, together with the reasons for such changes;
summarize the Borough's debt position; and include such other materials as the
Borough Manager deems desirable or as the Council requests.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1404)
§ 1405. PUBLIC RECORD.
The annual budget shall be a public record and shall he available. for public
inspection after submission and prior to adoption and after adoption.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1405)
§ 1406. ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
The annual budget shall be adopted by ordinance. Final adoption of the budget
shall occur prior to the commencement of the year for which it is prepared, but
only after it has been available for public inspection and hearing, after due
notice, for at least 10 days. If Council fails to adopt the budget on or before
December 31, the amounts appropriated for current operations for the current
fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-
month basis, with all items in it prorated accordingly, until such time as the
Council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1406)
§ 1407. MODIFICATION OF BUDGET.
   1.   The Council may authorize or ratify modifications, upon recommendation
of the Borough Manager, of the budget during the year for which it is prepared;
provided, however, that where the aggregate of modifications results in an
increase or decrease of a departmental appropriation by more than 15% of the
originally approved budget, such modification shall be by ordinance only. The
Borough Manager is permitted to make departmental line item adjustments;
however, he must provide a listing of the departmental line items adjustments
to Borough Council for approval by resolution.
   2.   The revised budget shall show the original budgeted amounts in one
column with a separate adjacent column listing the revised budgeted amounts.
   3.   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public
peace, the Council may make emergency appropriations up to $10,000. Such
appropriations may be made by emergency ordinance, but such ordinances may not
levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, or au:horize the borrowing of
money except to the extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues
to meet such appropriations subject to the $10,000 limitation heretofore
established. The Council may, by such emergency ordinance, authorize the
issuance of emergency notes, which may be renewed from time to time.
(Charter, 5/10/1994. § 1407)
§ 1408. PAYMENT OF FUNDS.
   1.   No expenditure or payment of any funds of the Borough shall be made
except upon approval of Council; provided, however, that payroll and utility
expenditures may be made at the direction of the Borough Manager where based
upon a prior ordinance or contract or by a purchase order system for amounts
over $25. Sales receipts and/or invoices must be provided for all expenditures,
regardless of the amount. Direqtives for payment, as approved by the Council,
shah be certified by the Borough Manager to the authorized signers. All checks
or drafts of the Borough shall be signed by:
      A.   The President of Council, or in his absence the Vice President of
Council, or in their absenoe one designated member of Council; and,
      B.   The Borough Manager or his designated representative.
   2.   All checks must have hand-written signatures, with no rubber stamps
permitted. The President of the Borough Council or his representative must
verify that the checks issued correspond to the vendor and the amount of the
invoice.
   3.   The Borough Manager and the Police Department shall have a petty cash
fund not to exceed $50 to be replenished monthly. An accurate record of the
expenditures from these funds shall be kept for audit purposes.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1408)
§ 1409. MUNICIPAL BORROWING.
Council shall follow the provisions of the law as established by the General
Assembly from time to time for the borrowing of money by municipalities.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1409)
§ 1410. FIDELITY BONDS.
Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices or positions, the
Borough Manager, the Borough Mayor, the Secretary, Tax Collector, City Engineer
and Solicitor, as well as any other officer, agent or employee of the Borough
as the Council may determine, shall execute and file with the Borough a surety
bond with a corporate surety authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, conditioned for the honest and faithful performance of his
respective duties, in such sums as shall be fixed by the Council. Any such bond
ar.d surety thereon, before being accepted by the Borough, shall be approved by
the Borough Solicitor. The agency placing such bond shall be determined by the
Council and premium therefor shall be paid by the Borough. Such bond may
provide for one or more additional obligees in the event that the officer
bonded is acting in a dual or similar capacity with other political
subdivisions or governmental or quasi governmental entities. Any Borough
employee on person who handles Borough moneys must he bonded in the amount
ascertained by Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, §1410)
§ 1411. INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
The Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all Borough
accounts by at least three elected auditors who have no personal interest,
direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the Borough government or any of
its elected or appointed officers. In the event there are no auditors in the
election, the Council has the authority to hire a certified public accounting
firm to conduct the audit. The Council may provide for more frequent audits, as
well as special audits, as it deems necessary. The results of the annual audit
and a financial statement of the fiscal affairs of the Borough shall be
presented to the Council and published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the Borough by April 1st of the year following the fiscal year audited.
      A.   Auditors shall meet yearly to audit the accounts, using forms
provided by the State Department of Community Affairs:
         (1)   The auditors of the Borough shall meet on the first Tuesday of
January each year and shall organize by the election of a Chairman and
Secretary.
         (2)   The auditors shall audit, adjust and settle the accounts of the
tax collectors, the justice of the peace, and ail officers of the Borough and
may also audit, adjust and settle the accounts of any person, corporation,
association, organization, qommittee or commission receiving or expending
Borough funds and shall prepare a report thereof, which shall contain an audit
of the accounts of the last fiscal year, and shall also show a complete
statement of the financial condition of the Borough, giving in detail the
actual indebtedness, the amount of the funded debt, the amount of the floating
debt, the valuation of taxable property thereof, the assets of the Borough with
the character and value thereof, and the date of maturity of the respective
forms of funded debt thereof. Such report shall be prepared within 90 days
after the close of the fiscal year.
(3) The amount of any balance or shortage, or of any expenditure of a kind, or
made in a manner, prohibited or not authorized by statute, which causes a
financial loss to the Borough, shall be a surcharge against any officer against
whom such balanoe or shortage shall appear, or who by vote, act, or neglect,
has permitted or approved such expenditure, but no elected or appointed
official of a Borough shall be surcharged for any aqt, error or omission in
excess of the actual financial loss sustained by the Borough, and any surcharge
shall take into consideration as its basis the results of such act, error or
omission and the results had the procedure been strictly according to law. The
provisions hereof limiting the amount of any surcharge shall not apply to cases
involving fraud or collusion on the part of officers, nor to any penalty
enuring to the benefit or payable to the Commonwealth.
         (4)   After such report has been prepared and executed by the
auditors, it shall be the duty of the auditors to file a copy of the report
with the Secretary-Treasurer of the Borough, with the Clerk of the Court of
Common Pleas of the County, with the Department of Community Affairs and
Department of Transportation. Such report shall be filed by the auditors of the
Borough not later than. 90 days after the close of the fiscal year. Any auditor
refusing or willfully neglecting to file such report shall, upon conviction in
a summary proceeding, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 for each day's delay
beyond the last day for filing such report and costs, but the total fine which
may be imposed and collected for any such offense shall not exceed $200. If the
failure to file such report within. the period specified is due to the failure
of the auditors to prepare the statement upon which said report is to be based,
said fine shall be imposed upon all of the auditors.
         (5)   In any matter involving any financial transaction, any official,
knowingly and willfully acting contrary to law, shall be guilty to a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, may be sentenced to pay a fine not
exceeding $100, and his office may be forthwith declared vacant as may seem
meet and just to the court passing sentence.
         (6)   The uniform form of the annual auditors' report and the annual
financial statement, hereinafter required to be made, shall be prepared by a
committee as provided in Article 13 of the Borough Code.
(7) The auditors shall also audit and report to the Borough Council upon the
accounts of every officer of the Borough, upon the death, resignation, removal
or expiration of the term of such officer.
      B.   Orders arid vouchers are to be marked 'audited." All orders,
vouqhers and certificates of indebtedness, which have been paid, shall, on
their presentation to the auditors, be canceled by writing or stamping the word
"audited" on the face thereof.
      C.   The auditors shall complete such audit, adjustment and settlement,
as soon as possible. The auditors shall within 10 days thereafter publish, by
advertisement in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borough,
a concise financial statement setting forth the balance in the treasury at the
beginning of the fiscal year, all revenue received during the fiscal year by
major functions and the current resources and liabilities of the Borough at the
end of the fiscal year, the gross liability and net debt of the Borough, the
amount of the assessed valuation of the Borough, the assets of the Borough with
the character and value thereof, the date of the last maturity of the
respective forms of funded debt, and the assets in each sinking fund. Suqh
publication shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of the Municipal
Borrowing Law, which required the corporate authorities of the Borough to
publish an annual statement of indebtedness.
      D.   The auditors shall be elected to 6 year terms every 2 years
according to the Borough Code, and shall be paid $35 on a per diem basis for at
least 5 hours per day in the aggregate for a maximum of 100 hours. Per diem
increases are subiect to the discretion of Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1411)
§ 1412. APPEALS FROM AUDIT.
It shall be lawful for the Borough, or any taxpayer thereof, on its behalf, or
any officer whose account is settled or audited, to appeal from the settlement
or audit, as shown in the auditors' report to the Court of Common Pleas of the
County, not later than 40 days from the date of the filing of the auditors'
report with the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1412)
§ 1413. TAXPAYERS APPEALING TO ENTER BOND.
No appeal by a taxpayer or officer shall be allowed unless, at the time of
taking such appeal, the appellant shall enter into bond in the sum of $1,000
with sufficient surety, to prosecute the same with effect and to pay all costs
accruing thereon, in case, if the appellant is a taxpayer, he shall fail to
obtain a final decision more favorable to the Borough than that awarded by the
auditors or, in case, if the appellant is an accounting officer, he shall fail
to obtain a final decision more favorable to the officer than that awarded by
the auditors. Unless such bond is filed as hereinbefore provided, the Court of
Common Pleas, upon application, shall set aside the appeal.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1413)
§ 1414. PROCEDURE ON APPEALS.
   1.   Any person interested may order the appeal upon the argument list, and
evidence may be taken before any person authorized to administer oaths, upon
rule for that purpose served upon the opposite party. In any proceeding upon an
appeal from a report of auditors, the accounts of the office or officers, or
the person, corporation, association, organization, committee or commission in
question may be investigated de novo, and the burden shall be upon each
officer, person, corporation, association, organization, committee or
commission, whose accounts are involved in the appeal, of establishing his
right to credits claimed by him or it, but the opposing party in such appeal
may use any facts, figures or findings of the report of audit as prime facie
evidence against any officer or other entity.
   2.   When more than one appeal from a report of such auditors shall have
been taken, whether by the Borough or any offioer or officers thereof, or by a
taxpayer, or any or all of them, the Court shall, on its own motion, or upon
motion of any party interested, direct the several appeals to be disposed of in
a single proceeding.
(Charter, 5/10/1994: § 1414)
§ 1415. FRAMED ISSUES.
Whenever any matter of fact is in dispute, the Court of Common Pleas is
authorized to frame an issue for the trial thereof.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1415)
§ 1416. FINDINGS OF FACT AND LAW; JUDGMENT.
After hearing, the Court shall file its findings of fact and law and enter
judgment in accordance therewith, and the judgment so entered may be enforced
by any appropriate proceedings, by the party prevailing.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1416)
§ 1417. BALANCES DUE TO BE ENTERED AS JUDGMENTS.
Any balance, in any report of the auditors, against any officer of the Borough,
shall constitute a surcharge against such officer, as fully as if expressly
stated in said report to be a surcharge, and the amount of any balance, and of
any express surcharge shall, if no appeal is taken, or after an appeal has been
finally determined, be entered by the Prothonotary as a judgment against such
officer and in favor of the Borough. The Clenk of the Court of Common Pleas
shall certify the amount of every balance or surcharge, contained in any such
report, from which no appeal has been taken within time herein provided, to the
Court of Common Pleas, for entry thereof by the Prothonotary as a judgment. Any
taxpayer of the Borough may enforce the qolleqtion thereof, for the benefit of
the Borough, by action or execution, upon filing in the Court of Common Pleas a
bond, in the sum of $1,000 with one or more sureties, conditioned to indemnify
the Borough from all costs which may accrue in the proceedings undertaken by
such taxpayer; subject, howeven, to all rights of appeal from the report of
auditors granted by this Charter. if any person or persons have been, or shall
be, surcharged for an illegal purqhase, and no fraud or collusion is shown and
the surcharge is paid to the Borough, then the article purohased shall become
the propenty of the person or persons surcharged.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1417)
§ 1418. ATTORNEY TO AUDITORS.
The Borough auditors may employ an attorney whenever the same is deemed
advisable by a majority of the auditors. The compensation of such attorney
shall be payable by the Borough out of the general fund of the Borough.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1418)
§ 1419. PENALTY FOR FAILLTRE TO COMPLY WITH LAW.
In case of any neglect or refusal to comply with the provisions of the
preceding Sections of this Article, any auditor so negleoting or refusing
shall, upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding, be sentenqed to pay a
finte of not more than $100 and, in default of the payment of the fine and
oosts, shall be imprisoned for not more than 10 days.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1419)
§ 1420. AUDITORS MAY COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.
The auditors of the Borough, or a majority of them, shall have power to issue
subpoenas to obtain the attendance of the officers whose accounts they are
required to adjust, their executors and administrators, and of any persons whom
it may be necessary to examine as witnesses, and to compel their attendance. If
any person shall refuse or neglect to appear or testify, the auditors shall
petition the Court of Common Pleas of the County to issue a subpoena to such
person and to require him to appear and to testify before the Court. The Court
shall issue such subpoena if it deems the testimony relevant to the issue.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1420)
§ 1421. AUDITORS MAY ADMINISTER OATHS; PENALTY.
The auditors of the Borough, or a majority of them, shall have power to
administer oaths and affirmations to all persons brought or appearing before
them, whether accountants, witnesses or otherwise; and all persons guilty of
swearing or affirming falsely on such examination shall be liable to indictment
and punishment for perjury.
(Charter, 5;10/1994, § 1421)
§ 1422. PERSONS REFUSING TO TESTIFY TO BE COMMITTED.
If any person appearing before such auditors for examination shall refuse to
take suoh oath or affirmation or, after having been sworn on affirmed, shall
refuse to make answer to such questions as shall be put to him by the auditors
touching the accounts or the official conduct of such person or any
corporation, association, organization, committee or commission with which such
person shall be connected, then the auditors may petition the Court to issue
its subpoena as hereinbefore provided.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1472)
§ 1423. PAY OF WITNESSES.
Witnesses, other than officers of the Borough attending before the auditors and
persons or officers serving subpoenas, shall be paid, out of the Borough
Treasury upon authorization signed by a majority of the auditors and orders
drawn on the Borough Treasury, the same fees as are payable for rendering
similar services in civil proceedings before a justice of the peaoe and the
amount thereof shall be made a part of the charge against any officer who shall
be charged by the auditors with any balance; provided, that any such costs
shall have been incurred in establishing said balance. Upon collection of any
such costs from any officer, they shall be repaid into the Borough Treasury.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1423)
§ 1424. AUDITORS TO SETTLE ACCOUNTS WHERE WITNESSES DO NOT APPEAR.
If any person in possession of books, vouchers, or papers relative to public
accounts before auditors shall refuse to produce the same or, if any officer
whose accounts are to be settled and adjusted by such auditors shall refuse to
attend or submit to examination as is hereinbefore directed, the auditors or a
majority of them may proceed, by the examination of witnesses and other
evidence, to ascertain and settle as near as may be the amount of public money
received by such officer and its application to public purposes or otherwise.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1424)
ARTICLE XV
TAXATION AND FINANCE
§ 1501. ANNUAL TAXES.
Council may levy and provide for the collection of the following taxes:
A.   An annual tax not exceeding 25 mills for general Borough purposes. The
Council may, by majority action, upon due cause shown, petition the Court of
Common Pleas, in which the Court may order a rate of not more than five mills
additional to be levied and in addition thereto any of the following taxes:
         (1)   An annual tax sufficient to pay interest and principal on any
indebtedness incurred pursuant to the Act of July 12, 1972 (Pt. 781, No. 185),
known as the "Local Government Unit Debt Act,' or any prior or subsequent act
governing the incurrence of indebtedness of the Borough.
         (2)   To provide for pensions, retirement or the purqhase of annuity
contracts for Borough employees, not exceeding 1/2 mill.
         (3)   To provide for the lighting and illuminating of the streets,
highways and other public places with electric light, gas or other illuminant,
not exceeding five mills.
         (4)   To provide for the assistance to the fire department both within
and without the Borough and of contracting with adjacent municipalities or
volunteer fire oompanies therein for fire protection, not exceeding two mills.
         (5)   To provide for the support of the local ambulance and/or rescue
squads serving the Borough, not exceeding one mill.
         (6)   To provide for the assistance and maintenance of a Shade Tree
Commission and/or Recreation Department, and the operation of such recreation
places or for paving its fair share amount, not exceeding three mills.
         (7)   To provide for the miscellaneous donations to establish,
maintain, and/or aid in the operation of a local library, Planning Commission,
Council of Governments, civil and military celebrations, the Home Rule Advocacy
Network and any other organization that may be of benefit to the Borough or its
citizens, not exceeding 1/2 mill.
      B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the application of moneys
received from taxes levied for general purposes to the purposes of paving
interest and sinking funds on indebtedness.
      C.   The said taxes shall be levied on the dollar of the valuation
assessed for County purposes, as now is or may be provided by law. All real
property, offices, professions and persons made taxable by the laws of this
Commonwealth for County rates and levies may; at the discretion of Council, be
taxed after the same manner for such purposes.
      D.   If an annual tax for the purposes specified in the Section is
proposed to be set at a level higher than is mandated, the question shall be
submitted to the voters of the Borough, and the County Board of Elections shall
frame the question in accordance with the election laws of the Commonwealth for
submission to the voters of the Borough in the form of a referendum.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1501)
§ 1502. SPECIAL LEVIES.
The Council of the Borough may be empowered to, within its power to levy taxes,
oollect an annual tax upon all property for Borough purposes that Council
determines is necessary for special projects, construction and/or
rehabilitation. Such special levy may continue so long as may be deemed
necessary and may be kept in a special fund and used only for the purposes
provided for. Provided, that the additional tax be authorized by referendum and
continue for so long as provided for in the question submitted in such a
referendum. The special tax shall be proposed by referendum and specify the
duration of such tax, in which case the special tax shall cease to be
collected.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1502)
§ 1503. TAX ENABLING ACT AND SUBSEQUENT LEGISLATION.
Council may levy such taxes as the Borough is permitted to levy under the Local
Tax Enabling Act of Pennsylvania or under any subsequent tax enabling
legislation adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1503)
ARTICLE XVI
CONTRACTS
§ 1601. REQUIREMENTS.
State statutes will prevail in contracts up to $10,000 for labor, material,
supplies or services for the item in the year supplied. All contracts of the
Borough involving sums less than $10,000 may be executed by the Borough Manager
on behalf of the Borough. All contracts in excess of $10,000 must be made by
Borough Council pursuant to authorization contained in the budget and after
public bidding as prescribed in the Borough Code. If the State of Pennsylvania
would allow for an increase in the minimum bid requirements, Council would be
permitted to adjust the bid amount accordingly. Authorization for contracts for
the construction of public capital improvements shall be given by ordinance.
Any official or officer required to execute a written contract shall request
the Borough Solicitor to approve the same as to form and to legality.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1601)
§ 1602. COMPETITIVE BIDS.
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, no contract for supplies,
material, labor, franchise or other valuable consideration, to be furnished to
or by the Borough, shall be authorized on behalf of the Borough, except with
the best responsible bidder after competitive bidding. In determining the best
responsible bidder, Council may take into consideration such other factors as
availability, cost, quality and previous experienoe of the Borough with the
bidder.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1602)
§ 1603. BIDDING PROCEDURE.
The Council shall, by ordinance, establish a system of competitive bidding, as
prepared by the Borough Manager, including such definitions, publication
requirements, deposit and bond requirements, conditions, terms, rules,
regulations, waivers and exceptions as it shall from time to time deem
advisable.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1633)
§ 1604. EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
Competitive bidding shall not be required under this Charter for:
      A.   Labor or services rendered by any Borough officer or employee.
      B.   Labor, material, supplies or services, furnished by one Borough
department to another Borough department.
      C.   Those where particular types, models or pieces of new equipment,
articles, apparatus, appliances, vehicles or parts thereof, etc., are desired
by Council which are patented and manufactured or copyrighted produots.
Policies of insurance or surety company bonds or those made with another
political subdivision or county, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Federal
government, any agency of the Commonwealth or Federal government or any
municipal authority involving the sale, lease or loan of any supplies or
materials.
      D.   Contracts relating to the acquisition or use of real property.
      E.   Contracts for professional or unique services.
      F.   Contracts for emergency repair of public works of the Borough as
recommended by the Borough Manager.
      G.   Contracts with other governmental entities, authorities, agencies or
political subdivisions.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1604)
§ 1605. MAXIMUM TERM OF CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
The term of contracts for the purchase of supplies shall not exceed 2 years
unless extenuating circumstances may indicate a longer term approved by a
majority Vote of Council.
(Charter; 5/10/1994, § 1605)
§ 1606. EMINENT DOMAIN.
The Borough shall have no authority to grant to others, by franchise, contract
or otherwise, its power and right of eminent domain.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1606)
§ 1607. OFFICIALS WITH PERSONAL INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
No Mayor, member of Council, nor any other Borough officer, appointee or
employee, shall solicit, benefit by or be financially interested in, to any
appreciable degree, directly or indirectly, any contract with the Borough in
excess of $500 in any 1 year, except the contract for the services for which he
was specifically retained.
(Charter, 5/10/1994. § 1607)
§ 1608. UNENFORCEABLE CONTRACTS.
No liability shall be enforceable against the Borough by any action of law, in
equity, or otherwise, upon any unauthorized or illegal contract. No member of
Counqil individually by any action shall bind the entire Council. A member of
Council shall be prohibited from acting on behalf of Council as an individual.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1608)
ARTICLE XVII
RECALL
§ 1701. OFFICERS SUBJECT TO RECALL.
Any person holding an elective offiqe of the Borough, whether by election or
appointment to fill a vacancy, shall be subject to removal from office at a
recall eleqtion in the manner provided in this Article.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1701)
§ 1702. RECALL PROCEDURE.
   1.   The recall of an incumbent of an elective office shall be initiated
upon petition signed by the registered electors of the Borough at large in
number not less than 30% of the electors registered to vote at the time of the
last preceding general election. Every recall petition shall name the office
and officer against whom it is directed and set forth the reason or reasons for
the petition.
   2.   Each elector signing a recall petition shall add to his signature his
occupation, his residence, his election district and the date of signing.
Signatures on a recall petition may be on separate sheets, but each sheet shall
have appended to it the affidavit of some person, not necessarily a signer of
the petition, that to the best of the affiant's knowledge and belief the
persons whose signatures appear on the sheet are registered electors of the
Borough, that they signed with full knowledge of the contents of the petition
and that their residences are correctly given.
   3.   A recall petition shall be tendered for filing to the Board of
Elections having jurisdiction over eleotions in :he Borough. No signature shall
be counted as valid which is dated more than 60 days prior to the date the
petition. is tendered for filing. Upon tender to the Board of Elections, the
petition shall be available for examination by any interested person.. Within
15 days after tender of the petition, the Board of Elections shall pass upon
the validity of the petition and the validity and sufficiency of signatures
recuired thereon. The decision of the Board of Elections shall be subject to
immediate review on appeal to the Court of Common Pleas.
(Charter, 5/13/1994, § 1702)
§ 1703. NOTICE TO INCUMBENT.
As soon as the Board of Elections has determined the validity and sufficiency
of the recall petition, the Chairman of the Board shall notify the incumbent
named in the petition that the petition has been filed. Upon receipt of such
notice, the incumbent may resign from his office and thereupon the recall
proceedings shall terminate.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1703)
§ 1704. RECALL ELECTIONS.
   1.   If the inqumbent against whom a recall petition is direqted does not
resign from his office within 10 days after receipt of notice of the filing of
such petition, the Board of Elections shall arrange a recall election to be
held on the date of the next primary or general election, provided said
election is at least 60 days from the date of filing of the recall petition.
The incumbent against whom a reoall petition is direoted may resign at any time
prior to the recall election and thereupon the election shall not be held.
   2.   The following question shall be presented to each elector in a recall
election:
   "Shall (name of officer) be recalled and removed from the office of (name of
office)?"
   3.   The above question shall appear separately for every officer whose
recall is to be voted upon and provisions shall be made for the elector to vote
"yes" or "no" on each question.
   4.   If a majority of the registered electors who vote on the question at a
recall election. shall vote "yes,' the incumbent shall be deemed recalled and
removed from office, but if a majority of such registered electors shall vote
"no," he shall remain in office.
   5.   Should the result of such election be affirmative, the date of the
removal and vacancy in the office shall be 7 days subsequent to :he date when
the results of election are certified by the Board of Elections, unless such
date is further postponed by order of court.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1704)
§ 1705. DISQUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
No person who has been removed from an elective officer by a recall election,
or who has resigned from such an elective office after a recall petition
directed to him has been filed, shall be eligible for election or appointment
to any office of the Borough within 2 years after his removal or resignation.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1705)
§ 1706. LIMITATIONS.
No recall petition shall be filed against any incumbent of an elective office
within the first year or the last 9 months of the term of his office or within
9 months after an unsuccessful recall election against him.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1706)
ARTICLE XVIII
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 1801. AUTHORITY.
   1.   Initiative. The qualified voters of the Borough shall have the right to
propose an ordinance to Council. Upon Council's failure to adopt the ordinance
without substantial change within 62 days after submission at a regular meeting
of Council, said ordinance shall be submitted to the voters at the next
election occurring at least 90 days thereafter.
   2.   Referendum. The qualified voters of the Borough shall have the right to
require reconsideration by Council of an adopted ordinance. Upon Council's
failure to repeal any ordinance so reconsidered within 62 days after the
request, the voters shall have the opportunity to approve or reject it at the
next election occurring at least 90 days from the adoption of said ordinance.
   3.   Limitations. The above powers of initiative and referendum shall not
extend to the budget, capital improvements program or to any ordinance
appropriating money, levying taxes or affeqting the salaries of Borough
officers or employees.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1801)
§ 1802. PROCEDURE FOR FILING.
Any five qualified voters wishing to begin an initiative or referendum
proceeding shall join. in filing an affidavit with the Borough Manager. This
shall contain their names, addresses, the principal address to which any notice
concerning the prooeeding should be sent, and should set forth in full the
proposed initiative ordinance, or the ordinance sought to be recalled. Upon the
filing of this affidavit, the Borough Manager shall issue petition blanks.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1802)
§ 1803. PETITIONS.
   1.   Number of Signatures. Initiative or referendum petitions must be signed
by a number of qualified voters of the Borough equal to 30% of the number of
registered voters entitled to vote in the preceding municipal election.
   2.   Form and Content. All papers of the petition shall be of uniform size
and shall he filed as a single document. Each signature shall be in ink or
indelible pencil, and shall show the address of the person signing. Throughout
their circulation, each copy of the petition shall contair or have attached the
text of the ordinance under consideration.
   3.   Affidavit of Circulator. Each page of the petition containing
signatures shall bear, in a designated place, the signature of the person who
circulated that portion of the petition. Each person qirculating the petition
shall file with the petition an affidavit stating his name and address, the
number of signatures he collected, a statement that he believes these to be
genuine signatures of registered voters, that all such signatures were affixed
in his presence, and that each signer was given an opportunity to read the full
text of the proposal before signing.
   4.   Time for Filing Referendum Petitions. Referendum petitions must he
filed within 90 days after adoption by Council of the ordinance sought to be
reconsidered.
(Charter; 5/10/1994, § 1803)
§ 1804. PROCEDURE AFTER FILING.
   1.   Certification. Within 10 days after filing of petition, the Borough
Manager shall prepare a certificate of sufficienoy, and shall send a copy
thereof to Council and one by registered mail to the principal address given in
the filing affidavit. In the event that the petition is certified as
insufficient, the reasons for such insufficiency shall be clearly stated on the
certificate. Petitioners shall have 10 days from receipt of this notice to
correct the defect by filing a supplemental petition, which shall comply with
§§
1802 and
1803. The Borough Manager shall then have 5 days from receipt of the
supplemental petition to prepare a certificate of sufficiency, and the Manager
shall again send copies of the certificate to Council and to the petitioners.
as provided in this Section. In the event this second certificate also declares
the petition to be insufficient, petitioners shall have 2 working days from
reoeipt thereof to file with the Borough Manager a request for Council review.
   2.   Council Review. Upon request, Council shall review a petition declared
insufficient in the manner presoribed above, at its next regular meeting, and
at that time shall approve or disapprove the certificate. The qualified Council
of the Borough as a whole shall be the final determination.
   3.   Court Review. A final administrative determination of insufficiency
shall be subject to court review. A ruling by the court sustaining a finding of
insufficiency shall not prejudioe the filing of a new petition.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1804)
§ 1805. REFERENDUM PETITION; SUSPENSION OF ORDINANCE.
When a referendum petition has been filed with the Borough Manager, the
ordinance sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended until:
      A.   A final determination of insuffioiency of the petition; or,
      B.   The withdrawal of the petition; or,
      C.   Council's repeal of the ordinance; or until,
      D.   Official certification of the vote of the Bonough on the referendum;
or,
      E.   Unless upheld for execution by five votes of Council.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1805)
§ 1806. ACTION ON PETITIONS.
   1.   Action by Council. Upon receipt of a certificate of sufficiency,
Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting must act to comply with the
petition. Upon failure to do so within that time, it must act to place the
question on the ballot.
   2.   Submission to Voters. The Borough shall vote on the question of
adoption or retention of the ordinance named in the petition not less than 60
days or more than 1 year from final Council action thereon.
   3.   Withdrawal of Petition. Up until the seventy-fifth day before the
election, the petition may be withdrawn by written request of four of the
original five petitioners. Upon the filing of such request with the Borough
Manager, the petition shall be without effect and all proceedings thereon shall
be terminated.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1806)
§ 1807. RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   1.   Initiative. If a majority of voters voting upon the proposal shall vote
in its favor, it shall take effect upon certification of the election results
and shall have the force of a duly enacted ordinance. In the event conflicting
ordinances are approved at the same election, the one receiving the greatest
number of affirmative votes shall prevail.
   2.   An ordinance which has been enacted by initiative may not be repealed
within 2 years of such voter action withou: 5 votes of Council to repeal said
ordinance.
   3.   Referendum. If a majority of voters voting upon the referred ordinance
vote in favor of its repeal, it shall be considered repealed upon certification
of the election results.
   4.   An ordinance which has been repealed by referendum may not be reenacted
within 2 years of such voter action without five votes of Council to reenact
said ordinance.
   5.   Upon defeat of an initiative or referendum ballot question, the same
subject matter may not be resubmitted for initiative or referendum within 2
years of said voter action.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1807)
ARTICLE XIX
TRANSITION AND CONTINUATION
§ 1901. RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF THE BOROUGH.
The Borough shall continue to own, possess and control all rights and property,
of every kind and nature, owned, possessed or controlled by it when this
Charter takes effect, and shall be subject to all its debts, obligations,
liabilities and duties.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1901)
§ 1902. AUTHORITY OF EXISTING ELECTED OFFICERS.
The members of the Council and the Mayor in office at the time shall remain in
office for the full terms for -which they were originally elected. However,
they shall have the responsibilities, duties and authority only as set forth in
and in pursuance of this Charter. All other elected officials of the Borough in
office at the time this Charter becomes effective shall remain in office for
the full term for which they were elected, and they shall continue to perform
the duties and receive the same compensation which they received prior to the
adoption of this Charter. However, should any of such other offices become
vacant for any reason, the vacancies shall not be filled; but the duties of the
offices shall, instead, pass to the persons designated in this Charter.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1902)
§ 1903. CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   1.   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations or portions thereof,
in force when this Charter takes effect and not in conflict herewith, are
hereby continued in force and effeot until amended, repealed, superseded or
expired by their own terms. All ordinances and resolutions in continued effect
as of the effeotive date of this Charter shall be construed as if enacted under
this Charter, but as of the dates of their original enactment.
   2.   Council shall allocate funds for the recodification of the Borough
ordinances by the Borough Manager and the Borough Solicitor within 2 years from
the adoption of this Charter. It shall be the duty of the Borough Manager to
provide for the indexing and annual updating of the ordinances.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1903)
§ 1904. ELECTION OF SIX MEMBER COUNCIL AND MAYOR.
   1.   Under the new Charter, the Borough of Portage will be divided into
three equal election Wards to be represented by the Mayor, elected at large,
and by six Council members, two representing each Ward, one elected to a 2 year
term and one elected to a 4 year term.
   2.   The presently eleoted Mayor and Council members will serve out their
full terms, The Mayor's term will expire in 1997, as will tenms of two Council
members elected from Ward 1 and one elected from Ward 2. The other Council
member from Ward 2 will serve until his term expires in 1995.
   3.   Election in the new system will be as follows:
      A.   Ward 1 (1-1) will elect two Council members. One Council member will
serve a 2 year term from January 1996 to January 1998. One Council member will
serve a 4 year term from January 1996 to January 2000.
      B.   Ward 2 will elect two Council members. One Council member will serve
a 2 year term from january 1996 to January 1998. One Council member will serve
a 4 year term from January 1998 to January 2002. The Council position that
expires in December 31, 1995 will be eliminated.
      C.   Ward 3 (1-2) will elect two Counqil members. The Council position
that expires on December 31, 1995 will be eliminated. One of the Council
positions that expires on December 31, 1997 will become a 2 year term and one
will become a 4 year term.
   4.   The creation and realignment of the Borough's wards shall be done in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Borough Code of Pennsylvania.
   5.   The Borough of Portage will elect a Mayor at large to serve a 4 year
term starting January 1998 to January 2002.
   6.   The new governing body will be completely in effect the first Monday of
January 1998.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 1904)
ARTICLE XX
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2001. SEVERABILITY.
It is the intention of the electors of the Bprough that if this Charter cannot
take effect in its entirety because of the judgment of any court of competent
jurisdiction holding invalid any part or parts hereof, the remaining provisions
of the Charter shall be given full force and effect as completely as if the
part or parts held invalid had not been included herein.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 2001)
§ 2002. CHARTER AMENDMENT.
Amendments to this Charter may be proposed and adopted in accordance with the
provisions of the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania governing home rule
charters and shall be subject to strict interpretation.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 2002)
§ 2003. OTHER ELECTED OFFICES.
The Borough of Portage shall provide for the necessary election of the office
of Tax Collector, Assessor, Constable and any other elected position as deemed
necessary and prudent.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 2003)
§ 2004. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Charter shall become effective on the first Monday of January, 1996, and
the municipal government shall operate under :he terms and provisions hereof
from and after the effective date.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 2004)
§ 2005. NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY.
   1.   The use of the personal pronoun "he' in this Charter is not to be
construed as barning any female person from holding any office or performing
any of the duties as herein mentioned if otherwise qualified.
   2.   The Borough of Portage offers equal opportunity to all qualified
persons to hold any office or perform any of the duties herein set forth
regardless of age (if less than the retirement age), sex, race or personal
religious belief.
(Charter, 5/10/1994, § 2005)
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
PART 1
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
A.   Short Title and Definitions.
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Definitions
B.   Council Organization and Procedure.
   §
105.   General
   §
106.   Organization
   §
107.   Meetings
   §
108.   Council Meeting Agenda
   §
109.   Quorum
   §
110.   Rules of Procedure
   §
111.   Committees of Council
   §
112.   Official Actions of Council
   §
113.   Ordinance Form and Procedure
   §
111.   Ordinances Requiring Prior Public Notice
   §
115.   Emergency Ordinances
   §
116.   Codes of Technical Regulation
   §
117.   Recording of Ordinances and Resolutions
   §
118.   Other Powers of Borough Council
   §
119.   Duties of Borough Council
   §
120.   Limitations on Power of Council and Members
   §
121.   Audit
   §
122.   Appointment to Other Authorities
C.   Mayor.
   §
125.   Powers and Duties
D.   Borough Manager.
   §
131.   Appointment, Qualifications and Compensation
   §
132.   Powers and Duties or the Borough Manager
   §
133.   Acting Borough Manager
   §
134.   Depart mental Organization
E.   Borough Solicitor.
   §
135.   Appointment, Qualifications and Compensation
   §
136.   Removal
   §
137.   Delegation of Authority
   §
138.   Powers and Duties of the Borough Solicitor
   §
139.   Access to Records
F.   Borough Engineer.
   §
141.   Appointment, Qualification and Compensation
   §
142.   Removal
G.   Authorities.
   §
145.   Continuation of Authorities
H.   Personnel.
   §
151.   General Provisions
   §
152.   Discrimination Prohibited
   §
153.   No Partisan Politics
   §
154.   Personnel System Based Upon Merit - Nonuniform
   §
154.1.   Leave Benefits for all Full Time Employees
   §
154.2.   Insurance and Other Fringe Benefits for All Full-time Employees
   §
154.3.   Employment Policies for All Full-time and Part-time Employees
I.   Police Department.
   §
155.   Purpose
   §
156.   Appointment, Removal, Promotion, Suspension and Reduction in Rank
   §
157.   Powers and Authority
   §
158.   Other Provisions of the Police Department
   §
159.   Rules and Regulations
   §
159.1.   Leave, Insurance, Other Fringe Benefits and Policies
   §
159.2.   Part-time Patrol Officers
J.   Budget and Fiscal Matters.
   §
161.   Fiscal Year
   §
162.   Submission of Budget and Budget Message
   §
163.   Budget
   §
164.   Public Record
   §
165.   Adoption
   §
166.   Modification of Budget
   §
167.   Other Provisions of Budget and Fiscal Matters
K.   Taxation and Finance.
   §
171.   Annual Taxes
   §
172.   Special Levies
   §
173.   Tax Enabling Act and Subsequent Legislation
   §
174.   Procedures and Filing Requirements to Be Followed by Tax Collector
L.   Contracts.
   §
175.   Competitive Bidding
M.   Recall.
   §
181.   Officers Subject to Recall
   §
182.   Recall Procedure
   §
183.   Notice to Incumbent, Recall Elections, Disqualification from Office and
Limitations
N.   Initiative and Referendum.
   §
185.   Initiative and Referendum Procedures
O.   Transition and Continuation.
   §
191.   Control
   §
192.   Transition and Continuation
P.   General Provisions.
   §
195.   Ordinances in Conflict
   §
196.   Severability
   §
197.   Effective Date
PART 2
PENSION PLANS
A.   Nonuniformed Municipal Employee Pension Plan.
   §
201.   Election to Enroll in the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System
   §
202.   Membership
   §
203.   Credit for Prior Service
   §
204.   Payment for Any Obligation Established
   §
205.   Agreement
   §
206.   Authorization
   §
207.   Copy Filed with the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System
B.   Police Pension Plan.
[Reserved]
PART 3
AUTHORITIES
A.   Municipal Authority of Portage Borough.
   §
301.   Intention to Organize Authority
   §
302.   Name of Authority
   §
303.   Articles of Incorporation
   §
304.   Purpose
B.   Portage Area Sewer Authority.
   §
311.   Intention to Organize Authority
   §
312.   Articles of Incorporation
   §
313.   Notice of Intention to File
PART 4
FIRE DEPARTMENT
A.   Volunteer Firemen's Relief Association.
   §
401.   Recognition of Volunteer Firemen's Relief Association
   §
402.   Certification to Auditor General
   §
403.   Annual Appropriation
B.   Authorization of Services of Portage Volunteer Fire Company.
   §
411.   Fire Company Recognized
   §
412.   Authorized Activities of the Fire Company
   §
413.   Authorized Activities of Members of the Fire Company
   §
414.   Purpose
C.   Establishment and Collection of Reasonable Fees
   §
421.   Reimbursement for Automobile Accident Services
   §
422.   Billing
   §
423.   Nonpayment
   §
424.   Fee to be Set by Fire Company and Approved by Council
   §
425.   Borough Reserves Right to Amend, Repeal or Revoke
PART 5
BOARDS, AGENCIES AND COMMISSIONS
A.   Planning Commission.
   §
501.   Creation of Commission
   §
502.   Membership of Commission
   §
503.   Rules and Regulations
   §
504.   Powers and Duties
   §
505.   Approval of Plans, Plots and Replots
   §
506.   Recommendations
   §
507.   Removal of Member
   §
508.   Appointment of Members
B.   [Reserved]
C.   Recreation Commission.
   §
521.   Establishment of the Portage Area Joint Recreation Commission
   §
522.   Joint Recreation Commission Agreement
PART 6
FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS
   §
601.   Use of Fire Insurance Proceeds
   §
602.   Limits of Liability
   §
603.   Insurance Company Rights Reserved
   §
604.   Construction
   §
605.   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development
   §
606.   Penalty
PART 7
OPEN RECORDS
   §
701.   Policy
PART 8
MUNICIPAL ENERGY AGGREGATION
   §
801.   Title
   §
802.   Definitions
   §
803.   Administration
   §
804.   Municipal Energy Aggregation Program
   §
805.   Opt-out Program
   §
806.   Savings Clause
PART 9
COSTS OF COLLECTION ON DELINQUENT TAXES
   §
901.   Cost of Collection Schedule Approval
   §
902.   Tax Collector Authorized
PART 1
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
A.   Short Title and Definitions.
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known and cited as the "Administrative Code for the Borough
of Portage." (Ord. 34996, 6/3/1996, § 101)
§ 102.   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   The following words, when used in this Part shall, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise, mean or indicate the following:
   ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL - the document that includes the rules and regulations
of the Borough government.
   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - all personnel employed by the 3orough of Portage
and who are under the direction of the Borough Manager.
   ARTICLE, SECTION, PARAGRAPH - unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the written format of the Home Rule Charter and shall be contained
in parentheses for reference.
   BOROUGH - the home rule municipality of the Borough of Portage in Cambria
County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH MANAGER or MANAGER - the chief executive officer of the Borough of
Portage.
   BOROUGH SOLICITOR - the chief attorney and legal advisor cf the Borough of
Portage.
   CHARTER - the Home Rule Charter adopted by the voters of the home rule
municipality of the Borough of Portage, Pennsylvania.
   COUNCIL - the Borough Council of the Borough of Portage, Pennsylvania.
   ELECTOR - any person within the Borough of Portage who has legally
registered to vote.
   GENDER - words are intended to apply to both genders.
   INITIATIVE - has the same meaning as outlined in the Home Rule Charter of
the Borough of Portage,
Article XVIII, §
1801, ¶1 (adopted, May 10, 1994).
   LAW - all applicable laws of the United States of America and of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   OPTIONAL PLANS LAW - the Home Rule Charter and Optional Plans Law of 1972
(Act 62).
   ORDINANCE - all laws enacted by the Council of the Borough of Portage.
   PERSON - anybody, partnership, association or corporation.
   PUBLISH - to have printed in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Borough, either in entirety or in part, in which case notice must be given of
locations where the full text is available for public inspection.
   REFERENDUM - has the same meaning as outlined in the Home Rule Charter of
the Borough of Portage,
Article XVIII, §
1801, ¶2 (adopted, May 10, 1994).
   RESIDENCE - a domicile in which an officer or employee resides.
   UNITS - all governmental entities of the Borough of Portage.
   VOTER - any person who votes.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 102)
B.   Council Organization and Procedure.
§ 105.   GENERAL.
The number of Council members, Mayor, their terms, election, qualifications,
salary, prohibitions, vacancies and the filling of vacancies shall be as
provided in the Charter (
Article III, §§
301-
305, inclusive, and §
308).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 201)
§ 106.   ORGANIZATION.
The Borough Council of Portage shall organize in accord with and as outlined in
the Charter (
Article III, §
306).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 202)
§ 107.   MEETINGS.
Provisions governing public notice of meetings shall be provided by the
"Sunshine Act," P.L. 388, No. 84 of 1986, as amended, 65 P.S. § 271 et seq. It
is the intent of this Code that all matters affecting the public will be
discussed in meetings that are open to the public (
Article IV, §
403, ¶1). [Ord. 3-1999]
      A.   Regular Meetings. The Borough Council meetings will be held on the
first Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m. unless it falls upon a holiday, then
the meeting will be held the next day of the week at the same time.
      B.   Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Borough Council may be
called by the President of the Council and must be called upon written request
or by special request at a meeting of at least three members. Members shall
have at least 24 hours notice of such special meeting. The notice shall state
whether the meeting is for general or special purposes, and if it is for
special purposes, the notice shall contain a statement of the nature of the
business to be considered. Presence at the meeting constitutes waiver of
notice. f the meeting is other than an executive session, the public notice
requirements of the Sunshine Act must be followed. [Ord. 3-1999]
      C.   Executive Sessions. The Council may hold executive sessions as
permitted by law. No official action shall be taken by the Council on any
matter while in executive session.
      D.   Location of Meetings. Unless otherwise advertised, all meetings of
the Council shall take place in the Portage Borough Building, 721 Main Street,
Portage, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 203; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 108.   COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA.
    1.   The proposed agenda for any Council meeting shall be prepared by the
Manager in consultation with the President of Council. The Council meeting
agenda shall be as follows: (
Article IV, §
404)
      A.   Roll call.
      B.   Borough Manager's report.
      C.   Correspondence.
      D.   Citizens' input on agenda items.
      E.   Minutes.
      F.   Bills and Treasurer's report.
      G.   Reports of officials, committees, special groups and authorities.
      H.   Unfinished business.
      I.   New business.
      J.   Citizens' input on nonagenda items.
      K.   Good of the Borough.
   2.   Proposed agenda items shall be submitted to the Secretary or Manager
not less than 4 business days prior to a Council meeting. The Secretary or
Manager shall have the privilege of temporarily rearranging the order of agenda
items in order to accommodate special guests, presentations or special
appearances so that those persons wishing to address Council are not required
to wait until all other business is concluded.
   3.   The proposed agenda shall be forwarded to all members of Council and
the Mayor and he available to the public at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. Council may amend the agenda while in session.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 2O4)
§ 109.   QUORUM.
Five members of Council shall constitute a quorum, without which no action may
be taken. However, even though a voting meeting may be conducted with as few as
five members present, the Charter requires that four members of Council must
vote approval for passage of legislation. (
Article IV, §
407)
(Ord. 3-1996. 6/3/1996, § 205)
§ 110.   RULES OF PROCEDURE.
The Council rules of procedure are provided in the Charter (
Article IV, §
404). Roberts Rules of Order, revised, govern meeting protocol.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 206)
§ 111.   COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL.
The Council may create committees among its own members or create commissions
in accordance with the Charter and State law. Those committees and commissions
are to conduct their affairs and to report to the Council as the Council
specifies.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 206)
§ 112.   OFFICIAL ACTIONS OF COUNCIL.
Official actions of the Council shall be by ordinance, resolution or motion as
provided by Charter (
Article IV, §
408;
Article V, §§
501-
513).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 207)
§ 113.   ORDINANCE FORM AND PROCEDURE.
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form
required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject
which shall be clearly expressed in the title. As required by Charter, the
enacting clause shall be, "The Borough of Portage hereby ordains:" (
Article V, §
502). Ordinances may be read one time and by title only. Voting, for both
ordinances and resolutions, is by roll call with each vote recorded in the
minutes. Abstentions are not permitted, except when a conflict of interest
arises. The nature of the conflict is to be stated and recorded (
Article IV, §
408). Ordinances are effective immediately upon passage and publication.
Ordinances are to be advertised not more than 60 days nor less than 7 days
prior to passage. After passage, adopted ordinances are to be advertised within
30 days (
Article V, §
509). Advertisement may be by title only, or by brief summary, with notice that
the full text is available for public inspection in the office of the Borough
Manager, Portage Borough Building, 721 Main Street, Portage, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 208)
§ 114.   ORDINANCES REQUIRING PRIOR PUBLIC NOTICE.
Ordinances dealing with land regulation, taxation, annexation, codes and sewers
outside the Borough require public notice and public hearings (
Article V, §
505).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 209)
§ 115.   EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
Temporary local laws necessary to deal with temporary conditions created by an
emergency may be adopted without advertising, are effective immediately and
automatically lapse after 60 days unless reenacted (
Article V, §
512).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 210)
§ 116.   CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATION.
Following public notice and public hearing, the Council may adopt, by
reference, any standard technical code such as a building or plumbing code. A
copy of the Code must be available in the office of the appropriate Borough
official (
Article V, §
513).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 211)
§ 117.   RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
Original full texts of ordinances and resolutions are to be maintained in
separate official record books to be maintained in the office of the Borough
Manager. The official record books are to be available for public inspection
during reasonable hours and citizens may obtain copies upon payment of a
reasonable copying fee. When recorded, the titles of ordinances and resolutions
are to be indexed alphabetically, by topic.
      A.   Enforcement of Ordinances. Unless otherwise prescribed, any viola:
ion of an ordinance shall constitute a summary offense, as defined by the laws
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and shall be prosecuted in accordance with
the laws of the Commonwealth and the Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to
the prosecution of summary offenses, as adopted by the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court. [Ord. 3-19991
      B.   Penalty. The Charter provides that the Council may change the
maximum fine for violation of ordinances (
Article 5, §
504). Accordingly, the following maximum penalties for ordinance violations
are, "Not more than $600 for each violation or 30 days imprisonment in default
of payment:" The penalty amount is left to judicial determination. (The Charter
established minimum amounts for the first, second, third and subsequent
offenses, but the intent appeared to be to establish maximum amounts for first
and subsequent offenses. Therefore, these penalties limitations are dropped in
favor of judicial determination.)
      C.   Continuing Violations. The penalty section of any ordinance may
provide that each day of violation constitutes a separate offense (
Article V, §
504).
      D.   Abatement of Nuisances. In addition to the penalties and other
remedies herein provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any ordinance will be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
by the Borough with the costs of such abatement borne by the person or entity
owning the property upon which the condition exists or the operator of the
condition causing or contributing to the nuisance; or any other party
responsible for creating or contributing to the cause or source of the
nuisance. Such costs will be collected for the use of the Borough as debts by
law are collected or by a municipal claim or lien filed as provided by law.
Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a separate offense.
[Ord. 3-1999]
      E.   Actions at Law or in Equity. In addition to the enforcement
provisions herein provided, the Borough may institute an appropriate action or
proceeding at law or in equity against a person or entity responsible for
violation of any ordinance and request either or both of the following
remedies:
         (1)   To cease, desist, correct or remoye the violation.
         (2)   To enforce the penalty proyisions of the ordinance or seek other
remedies as are just and reasonable.
      F.   Cumulative Penalties. Wherever this Part, or any ordinance, provides
for alternatiye penalties or remedies, said penalties or remedies shall be
cumulative and the imposition of any one such penalty or remedy shall not
prevent the Borough from invoking any other penalty or remedy provided
therefor.
      G.   Actions of Council Other than Ordinance Adoption. Other business of
Council may be undertaken by adoption of resolutions, enactment of
proclamations or the approval of motions which shall require a simple majority
vote of Council unless otherwise required by law or the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 212; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 118.   OTHER POWERS OF BOROUGH COUNCIL
   1.   All legislative powers of the Borough shall be vested in the Council.
   2.   Council shall have the power to enact, amend or repeal all ordinances
and resolutions not inconsistent with the Charter or with the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or the United States Constitution.
   3.   Council shall have the power to create, or abolish, all boards,
commissions, committees, departments, offices or agencies and prescribe their
functions.
   4.   Council shall have the power to appoint and remove all members of
boards, commissions, authorities and committees.
   5.   Council shall have the power to receive and accept in the name of the
Borough all gifts or donations or interest therein of real and personal
property.
   6.   Council, acting as a body, shall have the power to make inquiries and
request investigations into the affairs of the Borough government as provided
by Charter (
Article VI, §§
601-
604).
   7.   The Council may hold public hearings as it deems fit. (Ord. 31996, 6/3/
1996, § 213)
§ 119.   DUTIES OF BOROUGH COUNCIL.
   1.   Council shall hold regular, advertised, public legislative sessions at
which time legislation necessary for the public health, safety and wefare of
the Borough and its residents is proposed, considered and enacted.
   2.   Council shall be a deliberative body, discussing among its members and
soliciting public comment from citizens and property owners, opinions on
matters important to the well being of the Borough. From these discussions
should come consensus on necessary actions.
   3.   Council shall provide governance for the Borough and shall consider and
formulate policies useful and necessary for the well-being of the Borough.
   4.   Council shall appoint a professional, qualified Borough Manager.
   5.   Council shall appoint a Borough Solicitor who shall be an attorney at
law and may appoint other special legal counsel as needed.
   6.   Council shall adopt an ordinance, as prepared by the Borough Manager,
that provides for competitive bidding of contracts and the purchasing of goods
and services. (This Part contains Sections, prepared by the Manager, devoted to
contracts and purchasing, and satisfies this Charter requirement.)
   7.   Council shall adopt an ordinance that adopts a personnel system for the
Borough. (This Part contains Sections, prepared by the Manager, devoted to
personnel that satisfies this Charter requirement.)
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 214)
§ 120.   LIMITATIONS ON POWER OF COUNCIL AND MEMBERS.
Council shall, in the conduct of its powers, be subject to the following
limitations:
      A.   Individual Council members shall not exercise any power unless such
authority shall be specifically and expressly delegated by the Council acting
as a body as provided by the Charter (Article §
307).
      B.   No Council member shall hold any other Borough office or Borough
employment, paid or unpaid, or act as a paid consultant during the term of
office as provided by Charter (
Article III, §
303).
      C.   Neither Council nor any of its members shall in any manner dictate
activities or the appointment or removal of any Borough officer or employee who
is supervised by the Borough Manager. Council may express its yews and discuss
with the Manager anything pertaining to the activities or appointment or
removal of any subordinates (
Article IV, §
404).
      D.   Except for the purpose of inquiry, Council and its members and Mayor
shall deal with the day-to-day administration of the Borough solely through the
Borough Manager, and shall not give orders or direction to any subordinate or
the Borough Manager, whether directly, or indirectly, and whether publicly or
privately (
Article IV, §
404).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 215)
§ 121.   AUDIT.
The Council shall provide for an independent annual audit as required by
Charter (
Article XIV, §
1411).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6 /3/1996, § 216)
§ 122. APPOINTMENT TO OTHER AUTHORITIES.
No member of the Portage Borough Council who is serving a term at the time of
an opening or vacancy on either the Municipal Authority of the Borough of
Portage (sometimes referred to as the Portage Borough Water Authority) or the
Portage Area Sewer Authority may be appointed by the Council to fill the
opening or vacancy.
(Ord. 2-2022, 7/18/2022)
C.   Mayor.
§ 125.   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Mayor shall have the specific powers, duties and authority as outlined and
expressly stated in the Charter (
Article VII, §
708):
      A.   The Mayor shall be the ceremonial head and official representative
of the Borough of Portage (
Article VII, §
701).
      B.   The Mayor shall have no veto power.
      C.   All other powers, qualifications, prohibitions, terms, elections and
procedures shall be as stated in the Charter (
Article VII, §§
702-
707).
      D.   The salary of the Mayor is provided for in the Charter (
Article VII, §
709).
      E.   In addition to his special powers and duties as Mayor, the Mayor
shall be one of the seven Council members and have all powers and duties given
to members of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 301)
D.   Borough Manager.
§ 131.   APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint a professional Borough Manager for an indefinite term
and shall fix his, or her, compensation. The experience and education
qualifications and compensation of the Borough Manager shall be in accord with
the Charter (
Article VIII, §
801).
      A.   The Council may remove the Borough Manager at any time with cause.
(The Manager's professional reputation is his, or her, major asset and needs to
be respected and protected. If the majority of Council no longer value, or wish
to continue the Manager's services he, or she, should be so advised
confidentially and given an opportunity to resign and seek other employment.)
      B.   The appointment or dismissal of the Borough Manager shall be by vote
of at least four members of Council.
      C.   The Borough Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
Borough arid shall be responsible to Council for the administration of all
Borough affairs placed in the Borough Manager's charge or supervision.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 401)
§ 132.   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOROUGH MANAGER.
The Borough Manager shall not hold any other elected or appointed office within
the Borough of Portage. The Manager shall be bonded and shall be responsible
for the specific duties as provided in the Charter (
Article VIII, §
804).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 402)
§ 133.   ACTING BOROUGH MANAGER.
During the period of vacancy in the office of Borough Manager, or during the
period of absence or incapacity, the Council may appoint any of its own members
of any other officer or employee of the Borough as acting Borough Manager. The
acting Manager shall exercise the powers and duties of the Borough Manager and
be compensated at a rate set by the Council. The Council shall immediately
begin the search to fill the position and must fill the opening within 60 days
(
Article VIII, §
802). The qualifications for permanent Manager appointment are set forth in the
Charter (
Article VIII, §
801).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 403)
§ 134.   DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION.
Departments or offices under the direction of the Manager may have a
Supervisor, appointed by the Manager, providing hands-on management.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 404)
E.   Borough Solicitor.
§ 135.   APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION.
The appointment, qualifications and compensation of the Borough Solicitor shall
be set by the Council as outlined in the Charter (
Article IX, §
901).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 501)
§ 136.   REMOVAL.
The Council may remove the Borough Solicitor at any time with, or without,
cause.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 502)
§ 137.   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
The Borough Solicitor may, from time to time, perform the duties of the office
by delegation of authority to lawyers with the same qualifications as the
Solicitor to act as designated agents in the performance of duties.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 503)
§ 138.   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOROUGH SOLICITOR.
The Borough Solicitor shall be the chief legal officer of the Borough. His, or
her, powers and duties shall be those as outlined in the Charter (
Article IX, §
904, ¶1-8, inc.).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 504)
§ 139.   ACCESS TO RECORDS.
The Borough Solicitor shall have the right of access at all times to all
records of Portage Borough, including those in possession of any official,
officer, department, board, commission or authority.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 505)
F.   Borough Engineer.
§ 141.   APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint a Borough Engineer in accord with and as outlined in
the Charter (
Article X, §
1001)
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 601)
§ 142.   REMOVAL.
The Council may remove the Borough Engineer at any time with, or without,
cause. (Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 602)
G.   Authorities.
§ 145.   CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITIES.
All active municipal authorities organized or formed prior to the time the
Charter takes effect shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 701)
H.   Personnel.
§ 151.   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
The Council and Borough Manager shall adhere to all general provisions,
indemnification and pension plans as expressly stated and provided in the
Charter (
Article XII, §§
1201-
1203).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 801)
§ 152.   DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
No Borough official, employee or member of any Borough board, agency,
commission, authority or advisory group shall discriminate, for or against,
anyone or any group on the basis of race, sex, nationality, age, religion,
political affiliation, sexual preference or disability which does not directly
interfere with performing the work reasonably required to be done in the
individual's actual or prospective job category, position or rank.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 802)
§ 153.   NO PARTISAN POLITICS.
All employees of the Borough are prohibited from engaging in partisan political
activities during working hours and at all times in the municipal offices and
facilities.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 803)
§ 154.   PERSONNEL SYSTEM BASED UPON MERIT-NON UNIFORM.
The Manager is responsible for establishing, and maintaining, a personnel
system based upon merit. The personnel system is to be established by ordinance
and by inclusion in this Part and by inclusion in this Part meets that
requirements. (
Article XII, §
1201).
The Manager is to fix salaries and wages within ranges of those set by Council.
The Manager is to set entry-level salaries and make recommendations for pay
increases, or bonus payments based upon merit or performance. (
Article XII, §
1201)
   A.   Appointments. Appointments will be made by the Borough Manager on the
basis of merit. Recruitment efforts will be directed towards the goal of
recruiting the best- qualified candidates available on an equal opportunity
basis. Appropriate, qualifying examinations will be conducted as necessary.
Consideration will be given to experience, education, training, and ability to
perform required tasks and compatibility with the job description. Appointments
may be as a full-time, permanent employee as a part-time temporary or part-time
permanent employee, or as a seasonal employee. Full-time permanent employees
receive fringe benefits and normally work a 40-hour week. Part-time employees
may not work more than 38 hours per week and receive no benefits beyond legal
mandates. Seasonal employees may be full-time or part-time and are paid at an
hourly rate. Seasonal employees may not work more than 3 months and receive no
benefits beyond legal mandates.
   B.   Job Descriptions. Job descriptions will be developed, revised as
necessary and maintained by the Borough Manager.
   C.   Probationary Employees. All newly appointed employees shall serve a
probationary period of employment of 90 days. Probationary employees will not
receive any fringe benefits (insurance, uniforms, and leave time or vacation
time). During that probationary period the employee may be discharged without
cause. Within 30 days following the first 6-month employment period, the
supervisor will complete a performance evaluation and will recommend continued
employment, (at which time the employee becomes a permanent employee) or
discharge, (at which time the probationary employee is discharged). (4/2/2018)
   D.   Performance Evaluations. All employees are to be evaluated at the end
of probation and annually thereafter by their supervisor or manager. The
purpose is to neutrally review employee performance so that good performance
can be recognized and so that course corrections can be made in unsatisfactory
performance. Evaluations are to be conducted and completed during the month of
September. Evaluations resulting in an unsatisfactory rating will require
reevaluation in 3 months and 3 months hence. Continued unsatisfactory ratings
require dismissal.
   E.   Compensation Plan. The Compensation Plan consists of Schedule A for
Non-Uniform Full Time Employees; Schedule B for Part Time Employees; and
Schedule C for Contract, Charter, and Letter of Agreement Employees/positions.
The Compensation Plan Schedule A consists of the job title, entry-level (base)
pay grade, and 15 merit pay grades each increased by 2% for level 1 employees.
Level 2 pay grades were created with 15 additional merit pay grades with each
grade increased by 2%. The entry level base pay grade is that pay in effect as
of adoption of this ordinance. Schedule B Level 1 grades for part time
employees were created with 15 additional merit pay grades. Schedule B Level 2
grades were created with 15 additional merit pay grades with each grade
increased by 2%. Base pay and merit steps are increased by whatever across-the-
board increase is provided by the Borough Council in recognition of the need to
increase pay in order to be competitive in the regional job market. The
Manager, at the time of budget discussion, will propose whatever across-the-
board cost-of-living adjustment seems appropriate and will also recommend
appropriate merit adjustments. In order to be eligible for a merit increase,
the employee must have received a performance evaluation of satisfactory or
higher. [Ord. 3-2008, Ord. 5-2016, Ord. 6-2016, Ord. 3-2017, Ord. 6-2018, Ord.
8-2018, Ord. 10-2021, Ord. 6-2022, Ord. 5-2023]
   F.   Overtime. Municipal employment necessarily requires overtime work on
occasion. Typically, hourly rated employees who are ordered to work overtime
receive overtime pay as compensation. Overtime pay is one and one half of the
regular hourly pay rate. Administrative and supervisory people who work
overtime usually do so because the work situation demands extra hours,
(sometimes an excessive number of hours), and they usually work overtime at
their own direction. Aside from compensatory leave, administrative and
supervisory employees investing significant overtime hours in their job can be
recognized by overtime pay, merit pay, or one time bonus awards. Holidays are
considered as hours worked when computing overtime. Hours worked does not
include vacation, sick, excused, bereavement, or compensatory leave. Over-time
must be approved by the supervisor and/or Borough Manager.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, §804; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; by Ord. 1-
2002, 1/7/2002; by Ord 3-2003, 5/5/2003, §154; by Ord. 3-2007, 3/5/2007, §154E;
by Ord. 3-2008, 12/19/2008; by Ord. 3-2014, 6/2/2014; by Ord. 5-2016, 12/16/
2016; by Ord. 6-2016, 12/16/2016; by Ord. 3-2017, 12/18/2017; by Ord. 6-2018,
12/21/2018; by Ord. 8-2018, 12/21/2018; by Ord. 1-2019, 12/20/2019; by Ord. 10-
2021, 12/17/2021; by Ord. 6-2022, 12/16/2022; and by Ord. 5-2023, 12/15/2023)
§ 154.1.   LEAVE BENEFITS FOR ALL FULL TIME EMPLOYEES.
   1.   Vacation Leave. Permanent full time employees are entitled to the
following: 1 week of leave following 1 year of service, 2 weeks of leave
following 2 years of service, 3 weeks of leave following 10 years of service,
and 4 weeks of leave following 15 years of service.
 
1 week  following 1 year of service
2 weeks following 2 years of service
3 weeks following 10 years of service
4 weeks following 15 years of service
 
Vacation leave is to be scheduled in the best interest of both employees and
employer. Vacation leave is to be taken in the following year, but may be
carried over if requested by letter and approved by the supervisor or the
Borough Manager. A maximum of 2 weeks may be carried over to the next year upon
approval of the Borough Manager. Accrued vacation leave is paid at full value
at retirement or separation.
   2.   Sick Leave. Sick leave is intended to provide eligible employees with a
measure of security by continuance of full salary during a time of temporary
illness when the employee is too ill to work. A supervisor may request evidence
of illness at any time.
Employees taking sick leave are expected to notify their supervisor immediately
and/or within 1 hour of starting time each day they need to be on sick leave.
Failure to report to your supervisor will subject the employee to disciplinary
action. A supervisor may request evidence of illness at any time.
Sick leave is earned at the rate of 1 day per month (8 hours) and may be
accumulated up to a maximum of 60 days or (480 hours). After the maximum is
reached sick time will not accumulate. If sick time is used after the maximum
is reached, the employee will start to earn sick time again until the maximum
is reached. Accrued sick leave up to a maximum of 60 days or (480 hours) is
paid at 50 percent of value at retirement or separation.
If an employee is off work due to illness for 3 or more days, he/she must
submit documentation from a physician verifying the employee’s inability to
perform required duties. If an employee is on sick leave after 5 days, he/she
must submit a physician’s work release stating he/she can return to perform
full or light required duties. [Ord. 3-2007]
   3.   Bereavement Leave. Eligible employees are entailed to a maximum of 3
days paid leave in the death within the immediate family (spouse, parent,
child, brother, sister, grandparent, parent- in-law, step-parent, step child,
brother-in-law, and sister-in-law) and 1 day paid leave for other family
members (aunts, uncles, first cousins, nieces, and nephews). The supervisor, as
appropriate, may permit employee's nonpaid time off to attend funerals. [Ord.
3-2007]
   4.   Holiday Leave.
      A.   Nonuniform employees. The following are the designated paid holidays
10 days for all full time nonuniform employees: New Years Day, Presidents' Day,
Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. Holidays falling on Saturday will be
observed on the proceeding Friday. Holidays falling on Sunday will be observed
on the following Monday. Employees required to work on Holidays may have either
other time off at time and 1½ rate or holiday pay at time and 1½ rate. [Ord. 8-
2018; Ord. 1-2019]
      B.   Uniform employees. Uniform employees who work the holidays will be
compensated at time and one-half rate (1-1/2). The designated holidays are New
Year’s Day, President’s Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. [Ord. 1-
2019]
   5.   Personal Leave - Nonuniform Employees. Employees sometimes have
pressing personal business to attend that is not met by other kinds of leave.
Up to 2 days may be taken as paid personal leave and may be requested on an
emergency basis, meaning up to the day previous. Personal leave may not be
accumulated and may not be added to vacation leave. Personal leave can not be
carried over to the next year. Personal leave will not be paid out at
retirement or separation from employment.
   6.   Personal Leave - Uniform Employees. Employees sometimes have pressing
personal business to attend that is not met by other kinds of leave. All full
time officers are entitled to 12 paid personal days per year. Personal leave
may not be accumulated and may not be added to vacation leave. Personal leave
can not be carried over to the next year. Personal leave will not be paid out
at retirement or separation from employment. Personal leave will be accrued on
a monthly basis for 8 hours per month.
   7.   Compensatory Leave. Employees voluntarily working overtime to meet the
demands of their job may earn equivalent hours off to be taken at a time when
the workload is lighter and less demanding. Compensatory leave may be
accumulated without limit but must be taken within the year in which it was
earned. Compensatory leave may not be converted to cash at retirement or
separation. Employees required to work overtime and opting for compensatory
leave, are entitled to compensatory leave at a time and one-half rate.
Compensatory leave will not be paid out at retirement or separation from
employment.
   8.   Leave Records. All leave earned, or taken, must be recorded on a leave
record card maintained with payroll records in the Secretary's Office.
Employees have no claim for compensation other than that shown on official
records. Supervisors have a responsibility to see that all leave entries are
properly reported and recorded.
   9.   Family Medical Leave Act. FMLA requires covered employers to provide up
to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave to “eligible” employees for certain
family and medical reasons. Employees are eligible if they have worked for a
covered employer for at least 1 year, and for 1,250 hours over the previous 12
months, and if there are at least 50 employees within 75 miles. The Family
Medical Leave Act does not apply to Portage Borough unless there are at least
50 employees. A copy of the Family Medical Leave Act is posted for any employee
to review.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996; as amended by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003; by Ord. 3-2007, 3/
5/2007; by Ord. 2-2015, 3/2/2015; by Ord. 8-2018, 12/21/2018; by Ord. 1-2019,
12/20/2019; and by Ord. 7-2020, 12/18/2020)
§ 154.2.   INSURANCE AND FRINGE BENEFITS FOR FULL TIME EMPLOYEES.
   1.   Hospitalization and Life Insurance. After 90 days from date of hire,
the Borough will pay the premium for each full time employee (employee only
coverage) of the Borough who elects to enroll in the hospitalization plan
offered by the Borough. If an employee elects not to participate in the Borough
hospitalization benefit but instead chooses to be covered under their spouse’s
hospitalization plan, the Borough shall reimburse the employee at the rate of
$325 per month or in an amount established from time to time by resolution of
Borough Council. [Ord. 3-2007; Ord. 8-2018]
The Borough will pay the premium of a $25,000 life insurance policy and a
$25,000 accidental death and dismemberment for each nonuniformed full-time
employee of the Borough. The Borough will pay the premium of a $50,000 life
insurance policy and a $50,000 accidental death and dismemberment for each
uniformed full-time employee of the Borough.
   2.   Supplemental Insurance (§ 125 Cafeteria Plan). American Family Life
Assurance Company (A.F.L.A.C.) was adopted by Portage Borough Council for all
full-time employees who wish to participate in the program. Each employee is
required to complete a salary reduction authorization form for the insurance.
The insurance is a pre-tax deduction and is withheld from the employee's
paycheck on a biweekly basis.
   3.   Longevity Payments - Nonuniform. Establish longevity payments for
nonuniform employees. At the completion of the applicable year of continuous
service, a nonuniformed employee shall receive an annual lump sum payment as
follows:
      A.   Five through nine years - $150.
      B.   Ten through fourteen years - $200.
      C.   Fifteen through twenty years - $350.
      D.   Twenty one years or more - $500.
   4.   Longevity Payments - Uniform. Establish longevity payments for uniform
employees. At the completion of the applicable year of continuous service, a
uniformed employee shall receive an annual lump sum payment as follows:
      A.   Five through nine years - $150.
      B.   Ten through fourteen years - $200.
      C.   Fifteen through twenty years - $350.
      D.   Twenty one years or more - $500.
   5.   Deferred Compensation. The Copeland Companies are hereby adopted by
Portage Borough Council, for all full time employees who wish to participate in
the program. Each employee is required to complete a payroll deduction
authorization form. The deferred compensation is a pre-tax deduction and is
withheld on a biweekly basis.
   6.   Uniform Allowance. The Borough of Portage will provide each full time
uniform employee a uniform allowance of $500 per year or an amount established
by Borough Council.
   7.   Uniform Allowance - Non-Uniform. The Borough of Portage will provide
each full time non-uniform employee a uniform allowance of $300 per year or an
amount established by Borough Council. [Ord. 8-2018]
   8.   Police Hearings. Full time police officers attending local or county
hearings will be compensated by clocking in the day of the hearing and adding
one hour of travel time. The Police Chief will verify the hearing by the time
reflected on the timecard, along with the hearing notice. [Ord. 8-2018]
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, §902; as amended by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003; by Ord. 3-
2007, 3/5/2007, §156A; by Ord. 2-2015, 3/2/2015; by Ord. 8-2018, 12/21/2018;
and by Ord. 1-2019, 12-20-2019)
§ 154.3.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES FOR ALL FULL TIME AND PART TIME EMPLOYEES.
   1.   Working Conditions. The work place is to be as safe as possible.
Employees are to be properly trained and equipped to do their job. Public Works
employees are to use eye and ear protection when operating dangerous or noisy
equipment. Safety shoes, gloves, and protective clothing are to be worn as
necessary, including reflective vests at night. Warning signs are to be placed
safe distances from road repair work sites. Police officers are to be properly
trained in self-defense, firearms, search and arrest procedures, and made
familiar with all departmental policies, especially those concerning back up,
pursuit, and the use of force. Work places are to be inspected for safety and
hazard removal. Smoking is not permitted in Borough offices, buildings, or
equipment. Sexual harassment of employees, for any reason, is not permitted.
Work related injuries are to be immediately treated as necessary and reported
to the Borough Secretary, and to the Workers Compensation Insurance Carrier.
   2.   Discipline. Aside from offenses requiring immediate action, discipline
shall be progressive with warnings, opportunities for corrective action and
reappraisals.
   3.   Drug-Free Workplace. Any employee who is convicted or pleads guilty or
nolo-contendre to any violation of the Drug, Device and Cosmetic Act (Act 64)
or any violation of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code relating to the operation of
a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol and the criminal act was
perpetrated while in the course of employment with the Borough shall be cause
for immediate dismissal. The possession or use of illegal drugs or alcohol
while in the course of employment is absolutely prohibited. Any violation of
this policy may be cause for termination. Employees are not to report to work
under the influence of drugs or alcohol. If the Borough has reason to believe
that an employee has reported to work in violation of this policy, the Borough
may require the employee to submit to an unannounced drug test to confirm or
disprove the Borough's suspicion. Refusal to submit to the requested drug test
may result in either a suspension without pay or termination. If the test is
positive, the costs of same will be the responsibility of the employee, if the
test is negative, the Borough will bear the costs. An employee who reports to
work under the influence of drugs or alcohol and who either tests positive or
admits to the violation shall not be reinstated unless or until he or she has
successfully completed a drug and alcohol rehabilitation program (at employee's
expense) approved by the Borough Manager. The employee will be given a
reasonable amount of time in which to enroll in and successfully complete said
rehabilitation program. A second violation of the drug and alcohol policy with
respect to reporting to work under the influence will be subject to
termination.
   4.   Sexual Harassment. In accordance with State and Federal Law, the
Borough of Portage will implement an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's
(EEOC) policy regarding sexual harassment. Portage Borough adopts the principle
that employees should not be subject to unwelcome verbal or physical advances
which are sexual in nature. Portage Borough does not condone any such sexual
advances where submission to such conduct is made, either explicitly or
implicitly, a term or condition of employment or a basis for any employment
decision, or if such conduct creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive
environment for any employee. Portage Borough will not condone such conduct and
will not permit it to effect any employment decisions rendered by Portage
Borough. It is the policy of Portage Borough to treat all such complaints or
allegations with respect and confidentiality and to the extent possible,
consistent with Portage Borough's obligation to investigate, evaluate and
adjudicate complaints of sexual harassment policy. Complaints or questions
relating to the Borough policy on sexual harassment should be addressed to
either the Manager or President of Council. The Manager and President of
Council will meet to determine the appropriate action necessary to resolve the
complaint based upon the Borough's sexual harassment policy. The Manager and
President of Council will document the allegation, findings and actions taken.
Such documentation will be retained by the Manager in a separate file from the
normal personnel files of the individuals involved. Should either of the
parties request it, a copy of the above-cited documentation shall be placed in
his or her personnel file. Should either the complainant or alleged offender be
dissatisfied with the findings or actions resulting from an allegation of
sexual harassment, that individual may further discuss the issues with Council.
Should a complainant allege further violations of this policy by the same
individual, the Manager will document the statement and allegation of the
complaint which will then be filed in the personnel files of the complainant
and the party charged. The President of Council will be notified in writing of
the allegation, and he/she, or a senior staff member designated by him/her,
will interview all of the concerned parties. His/her written findings and
recommendations will be included as a confidential executive review to be filed
with the allegation. In cases where the allegation is proven to the
satisfaction of the Manager and the President of Council will either cause a
remedial program to be established or issue a written warning or proceed with
the immediate termination of the violator. (adopted 7/12/93)
   5.   Grievances. A grievance is a dispute or disagreement related to working
conditions, disciplinary actions or the interpretation of these personnel rules
and regulations or written rules of a department. Any employee who has a
grievance should first discuss the matter orally with his/her supervisor within
10 calendar days from the time the employee first learned or should have
learned of the matter grieved in an attempt to resolve it. If the matter is not
resolved with this initial discussion the employee may appeal the grievance to
the Borough Manager within 3 days from the decision of the department manager.
The Borough Manager shall conduct a hearing with the employee and involved
supervisor/department manager within 10 days of the registered appeal. The
Borough Manager will reach a decision and shall be final on all parties.
   6.   CDL Drug and Alcohol Policy.
      A.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is:
         (1)   To comply with the requirements of employers pursuant to the
Federal legislation concerning commercial drivers license (CDL) pursuant to the
Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 and the Federal regulations
thereto insofar as they apply to Portage Borough.
         (2)   To conform the employment policies of Portage Borough the
requirements of said law and regulations.
This policy shall apply only to those employees and applicants for employment
who are required to have a CDL license for their employment by Portage Borough
and who are assigned to operate Borough-owned, leased or borrowed vehicles or
equipment requiring CDL licensure. The regulations of the Federal Highway
Management Administration are hereby adopted by reference insofar as they apply
to Portage Borough and this policy.
      B.   Policy Established.
         (1)   Employees shall not use, sell, possess or receive alcohol or
illegal drugs or distribute or sell prescription drugs while on duty. Violation
of these rules will subject the employee to discipline and/or dismissal
pursuant to the provisions of this policy, subject to any applicable provisions
and procedures of the collective bargaining agreement in effect, if any.
         (2)   Prescription drugs must be kept in their original container
identifying the drug, dosage, date of prescription and physician. Employees are
required to notify the Borough Manager if they are taking a prescription drug
and shall file with the Borough a statement on a form provided by the Borough
from the doctor who issued such prescription stating whether or not such
prescription will impair the employee's ability to operate a CDL vehicle or
equipment. The term “illegal drugs” shall include drugs for which the employee
does not have a valid prescription and cocaine, phensyslidine (PCP), marijuana,
opiates (including heroin), amphetamines and such other illegal drugs as may be
identified from time to time.
      C.   The following drug and alcohol test procedures shall be applicable
to all employees and applicants for employment to whom this policy applies:
         (1)   Pre-employment. All applicants shall be tested for drugs prior
to acceptance for employment by the Borough. Any applicant testing positive
shall not be considered for employment. The Borough will reimburse the
applicant for the cost of this test if they test negative and if employment is
offered to the applicant.
         (2)   Random. The Borough will implement a random testing procedure
which meets the requirement of the Federal regulations. The procedure shall
include Borough paid tests of affected employees on a random basis and shall be
conducted without any advance notice, but shall be done not less than on a
quarterly basis. The number of affected employees selected shall be at least 50
percent of the employees for alcohol testing annually; provided, however, that
the requirements of this policy shall be satisfied if the above percentages are
selected from a pool of employees which includes the Borough’s employees.
         (3)   Reasonable Cause. Any employee giving reasonable cause to
believe that he or she is in violation of the policy established above shall be
subjected to Borough paid testing immediately upon observation of such
reasonable cause by trained supervisory personnel. Reasonable cause shall be
limited to behavior or conduct observed at the workplace or en route to a
workplace during work hours. Observation shall be by supervisory personnel who
have received at least 1 hour of training in drug use detection and 1 hour of
training in alcohol use detection. Supervisory personnel making reasonable
cause observations shall make and file with the Borough Manager a written
report on a form provided by the Borough of the attendant circumstances. Such
report shall be confidential.
         (4)   Post Accident. Any employee involved in an accident as defined
herein shall be tested at the Borough’s expense for drugs as soon after an
accident occurs as is possible, but not later than 32 hours, and for alcohol as
soon after an accident as possible, but not later than 8 hours provided that
testing should not take precedence over needed medical treatment or other
emergency measures. If for any reason the tests cannot be obtained within the
times provided, the tests shall not be administered. However, refusal to submit
to a test or interfering with the successful completion of such a test shall be
deemed a positive test result in accordance below. No employee shall consume
alcohol or illegal drugs between the time of the accident and test
administration. An accident shall include any occurrence involving a CDL
vehicle where the following conditions occur; there is a fatality regardless of
fault or there is issuance of a citation to the Borough CDL employee for a
moving violation, and bodily injury of any person involved requiring
transportation of the injured person away from the accident scene for treatment
or vehicular damage requiring the vehicle to be towed from the scene.
      D.   Test Standards. Any refusal or failure by the CDL employee or
applicant to submit to any test required by this policy or the applicable law
shall be deemed to be a positive result. Refusal to submit to a test under this
policy shall include any act or omission which prevents, thwarts or
frustrations the objectives of this policy including, without limitation, the
following: refusal to submit in a timely fashion to testing; refusal or failure
by the employee or refusal or failure without good cause to provide any sample
or provide an adequate sample for testing; and/or failure or refusal to
otherwise cooperate with the testing process in a way which prevents the
completion of any required test.
         (1)   Alcohol Testing. Shall be conducted using a Federally approved
breathalyzer. Any employee receiving a test result of greater than 0.02 percent
but less than 0.04 percent breath alcohol level shall be removed from safety
sensitive duties, as defined in the Act and the regulations, for 24 hours. Any
test result of greater than 0.04 percent breath alcohol level shall be
considered a positive test and shall subject the employee to the disciplinary
provisions of this policy.
         (2)   Drug Testing. Shall be conducted by urine sample which shall be
analyzed at a Federally approved testing facility. Any test result showing the
presence of illegal drugs shall be considered a positive test and shall subject
the employee to the disciplinary provisions of this policy. Any employee
testing positive for illegal drugs may request a split sample of the sample
specimen to be retested, at the employee’s expense. Employees should speak with
the Borough Manager about such request.
      E.   Positive Tests; Return to CDL Duty.
         (1)   An employee who tests positive for a drug and/or alcohol test
will be allowed to return to CDL duty if this is the employees first positive
test and the employee, prior to returning to CDL duty:
            (a)   Consults such drug and alcohol abuse professionals to whom
the employee has been referred at the employee’s expense.
            (b)    Completes all recommended treatment at the employee’s
expense.
            (c)   Completes all necessary drug and/or alcohol tests at the
employee’s expense and obtains negative results.
         (2)   Any subsequent positive result to a drug and/or alcohol test by
this same employee will subject that employee to immediate dismissal by the
Borough.
         (3)   If any employee who tests positive for a drug and/or alcohol
test is offered the chance to return to CDL duty, that employee shall be
subject to unannounced follow-up drug and or alcohol tests as directed by the
substance abuse professional for a period of 60 months following return to CDL
duty. At least 6 unannounced follow-up drug and/or alcohol tests shall be
conducted in the first 12 months following return to CDL duty. Such test shall
be conducted as directed by the assigned substance abuse professional. A
positive result or any test administered during this probationary period
automatically subjects the employee to immediate dismissal.
Employees will be notified of their positive results. Test results shall be
retained by the Borough Manager for analyzing the employee's test results. Said
results shall be held in strictest confidence and shall be accessible only to
the employee, the employer and such other personal authorized by law and shall
not be released to future employers in accordance with the Federal regulations.
All files, documents and records of the Borough related to the application of
this policy to individual employees shall be deemed and kept confidential by
the Borough.
      F.   Record Keeping.
         (1)   All of the records relating to the administration and results of
the Borough’s alcohol and drug testing program for its CDL drivers will be
maintained for a minimum period of 5 years, except that individual negative
test results will be maintained for a minimum of 12 months.
         (2)   Tests will be conducted by a licensed facility and will be
analyzed by a medical review officer. The medical review officer who is
appointed shall be a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy with knowledge
of drug and alcohol abuse disorders and who is employed by the Borough or group
which the Borough has joined, to conduct alcohol and drug testing in accordance
with the Federal regulations. The medical review officer shall be the sole
custodian of individual test results. The medical review officer shall retain
the reports of individual test results for a minimum of 5 years.
         (3)   The Borough shall retain in the employees personnel file
information indicating only the employee submitted to a drug and/or alcohol
test, the date of the test, the location of the test, the identity of the
person or entity performing the test and the test result (i.e., positive or
negative).
         (4)   The Borough will also maintain an annual calendar year summary
of the records related to the administration and results of the testing program
for its drivers under Federal regulation.
         (5)   No person may obtain the individual test results retained by the
medical review officer, and no medical review officer shall release the
individual tests results of any employee to any person, without first obtaining
written authorization from the tested individual, unless otherwise requested by
law.
      G.   Employee Assistance Program. The Borough shall establish the
following:
         (1)   A list of consultative and treatment services available in the
area for drug and alcohol abuse problems. Said list shall be given to each
employee or posted at a place readily accessible to employees.
         (2)   A list of educational and training resources available in the
area for drug and alcohol abuse problems. Said list shall be given to each
employee or posted at a placed readily accessible to employees.
         (3)   A place or service for referring employees who test positive for
drugs or alcohol for consultation and treatment.
         (4)   A 1-hour training and education program for employees.
         (5)   One-hour training each in drug and alcohol detection and related
matters for supervisory personnel. Said training programs shall include the
effects of drug and alcohol abuse on health and safety, manifestations of abuse
and abuse detection, documentation of training and implementation of this
policy.
      H.   Miscellaneous Provisions.
         (1)   This policy shall be implemented with the constitutional and
legal rights of the employee subjected to it.
         (2)   This policy shall not be deemed to be a covenant of employment
or contract between the Borough and any employee.
         (3)   Any agreement for the sharing, leasing, lending or other
transfer of CDL employees between the Borough and any other municipality or
private enterprise shall address in writing the status of said employees as to
whether they are employees of the receiving entity during the period of
transfer.
         (4)   Any contract for services involving CDL employees shall
expressly state whether the contracting party is an independent contractor or
employee/agent of the Borough.
         (5)   The definition of terms shall be contained in the Federal
regulations.
         (6)   A copy of this policy shall be delivered to every employee and
applicant for employment who is subject to it and to all supervisory personnel.
Such employee shall sign an acknowledgment of receipt of this policy.
         (7)   A copy of the controlling law and Federal regulations shall be
maintained in the Borough office and shall be accessible to employees, upon
request.
         (8)   This policy will be limited by any applicable Federal or State
law or Borough ordinance and by any applicable collective bargaining
agreements. Any portion of this policy which directly conflicts with such a
law, ordinance or agreement will not be implemented in that jurisdiction or
bargaining unit, but shall be severable and shall not affect the validity and
enforcement of the remainder of the policy.
         (9)   Employees agree to waive any liability against the Borough
arising out of the administration of the program established pursuant to the
Federal law or regulations regarding the Boroughs responsibility for CDL
drivers.
      I.   CDL Information Contact. The following entity is designated by the
Borough of Portage for the purpose of providing information to employees
concerning the Federal laws and regulations governing the testing of CDL
employees and for implementation and monitoring the Boroughs compliance with
the Federal testing program:
         PSAB CDL Drug and Alcohol Testing Program
         2941 North Front Street
         Harrisburg PA 17110
         Phone: 1-800-232-7722
      Designation of the PSAB Program is available to provide information to
Borough employees and shall continue for as long as the Borough is a member in
good standing with the PSAB Program.
   7.   Mileage Allowance. The Borough of Portage will reimburse employees for
the use of their privately owned vehicles when on Borough business at the
current rate per mile authorized by the Internal Revenue Service of the Federal
Government.
   8.   Education and Training Seminars. It is the policy of the Borough of
Portage to encourage in- service training. The department manager or Borough
Manner may require specific training for employees. When an employee has been
so designated, the Borough shall pay any tuition or registration fees, and the
class time involved shall be considered as time worked.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996; as added by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003)
Exhibit A
Employee Acknowledgment of the Personnel Rules and Regulations Policy
I acknowledge that I have received, read, and understand the Portage Borough's
Personnel Rules and Regulations and a copy of the acknowledgment will be placed
in each employee's personnel folder.
I also understand that this document is not an employment contract. It can be
modified at the discretion of the Borough Manager with Council approval and
does not supercede any collective bargaining agreements.
Dated
                                                                                                                             
Employee Signature
                                                               
Employee Name Printed
I.   Police Department.
§ 155.   PURPOSE.
The Police Department of the Borough of Portage shall be for the purpose of
keeping peace and order and law enforcement in the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 901)
§ 156.   APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL, PROMOTION, SUSPENSION AND REDUCTION IN RANK.
These matters are provided in the Charter (
Article XIII, §
1302).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 902)
§ 157.   POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
Police officers employed b y the Borough of Portage shall have the powers,
authority and protection provided by State law and by the Charter (
Article XIII, §
1303).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 903)
§ 158.   OTHER PROVISIONS OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
The Charter contains other provisions pertaining to police. (
Article XIII, §§
1304-
1311)
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1596, § 904)
§ 159.   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   1.   The Police Department is administered by the Police Chief who reports
to the Borough Manager. The Police Chief is responsible for maintaining and
updating a current set of rules and regulations which set forth procedures for
the operation of the Department. The Police Chief must require all new
officers, prior to assuming duties, to read and initial each page of the
department rules and regulations and the Chief shall require at least a
semiannual review of those rules and regulations.
   2.   The rules and regulations shall contain provisions that deal with hot
pursuit or fresh pursuit to the effect that the officer must have reasonable
knowledge that a serious crime was committed, or attempted, and that the
pursuit be conducted with due regard for public safety. The use of force shall
be limited to the minimum amount of force necessary to enforce the law.
   3.   Each full time police officer shall possess a contractual agreement
between said officer and Portage Borough. The contractual agreement will
reflect the compensation wages, fringe benefits and personnel policies in
effect for the specified period of time.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 905; as amended by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003)
§ 159.1.   LEAVE, INSURANCE, OTHER FRINGE BENEFITS AND POLICIES.
   1.   Each full time officer shall be entitled to and adhere to
Chapter 1, (Administration and Government); Part 1, (Administrative Code), § H,
(Personnel), Sections
154.1 through
154.3.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996; added by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003)
§ 159.2.   PART-TIME PATROL OFFICERS.
   1.   Officers hired as of February 18, 1999, will be required to pay for
items such as uniform, physiological evaluation, and physical. (Uniform
reimbursement consists of two pants and two shirts). Prior approval must be
obtained by the Borough Manager for any other uniform, gear, or equipment, if
reimbursement is desired. These items and services can be purchased by choice
of the officer being hired as long as the items and services are within Borough
guidelines.
   2.   The Borough will reimburse 50 percent of the costs on the sixth month
anniversary of the hire date. The other 50 percent will be reimbursed on the 1-
year anniversary of the hiring.
   3.   After completion of 1 year service, each part-time officer will be
entitled to an annual uniform allowance of $250 per year. (Subject to change by
Borough Council.)
   4.   Each part-time police officer shall possess a contractual agreement
between said officer and Portage Borough. The contractual agreement will
reflect the current wage determined from the compensation plan in effect at
that time, reimbursement of expenses, and personnel policies.
   5.   Each part-time officer is not entitled to any fringe benefits or
hospitalization plans provided by Portage Borough.
   6.   Each part-time officer shall acknowledge the policies set forth in
Chapter 1, (Administration and Government), Part 1, (Administrative Code), § H,
(Personnel), Section
154.3 (Employment Policies).
   7.   Part time patrol officers attending local or county hearings will be
compensated by clocking in the day of the hearing and adding one hour of travel
time. The Police Chief will verify the hearing by the time reflected on the
timecard, along with the hearing notice. [Ord. 8-2018]
   8.   Part time patrol officers who work the holidays will be compensated at
time and one-half rate (1-1/2). The designated holidays are New Year’s Day,
President’s Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996; as added by Ord. 3-2003, 5/5/2003; as amended by Ord.
2-2015, 3/2/2015; by Ord. 8-2018, 12/21/2018; by Ord. 1-2019, 12/20/2019; and
by Ord. 11-2021, 12/17/2021)
Exhibit B
Employee Acknowledgment of the Personnel Rules and Regulations Policy
I acknowledge that I have received, read, and understand the Portage Borough's
Personnel Rules and Regulations and a copy of the acknowledgment will be placed
in each employee's personnel folder.
I also understand that this document is not an employment contract. It can be
modified at the discretion of the Borough Manager with Council approval and
does not supercede any collective bargaining agreements.
Dated
                                                                                                                             
Employee Signature
                                                               
Employee Name Printed
J.   Budget and Fiscal Matters.
§ 161.   FISCAL YEAR.
The fiscal year of the Borough of Portage shall be the calendar year.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1001)
§ 162.   SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
The Charter provides that the Manager shall submit an annual budget and budget
message (
Article XIV, §§
1402-
1404)
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1002)
§ 163.   BUDGET.
Budget procedures are provided in the Charter (
Article XIV, §
1403).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1003)
§ 164.   PUBLIC RECORD.
The annual budget of the Borough shall be a public record and shall be
ayailable for public inspection after submission and prior to adoption and
after adoption.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1004)
§ 165.   ADOPTION.
The annual budget of the Borough shall be adopted by ordinance and in
accordance with Charter provisions (
Article XVI, §
1406).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1005)
§ 166.   MODIFICATION OF BUDGET.
The Borough Manager may recommend and the Council may consider at any time to
amend or revise the annual budget as provided in the Charter (
Article XIV, §
1407).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1006)
§ 167.   OTHER PROVISIONS OF BUDGET AND FISCAL MATTERS.
All other Sections and provisions of budget and fiscal matters contained in the
Charter, namely,
Article XIV, §§
1408-
1424, incl., shall be adhered to and enforced by Council and the Borough
Manager. The aforementioned Sections of
Article XIV shall be followed and implemented as expressly stated and outlined
in the Charter. The Council shall be bound by the budget limitations as defined
in the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1007)
K.   Taxation and Finance.
§ 171.   ANNUAL TAXES.
Council may levy and proyide for the collection of taxes as stipulated in the
Charter (
Article XV, §
1501).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1101)
§ 172.   SPECIAL LEVIES.
The Council of the Borough of Portage is empowered to enact special levies as
allowed by law and the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1102)
§ 173.   TAX ENABLING ACT AND SUBSEQUENT LEGISLATION.
Council may levy such taxes as the Borough of Portage is permitted to levy
under the Local Tax Enabling Act of Pennsylvania or under any subsequent tax
enabling legislation adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1103)
§ 174. PROCEDURES AND FILING REQUIREMENTS TO BE FOLLOWED BY TAX COLLECTOR.
   1.   The Portage Borough Tax Collector ("Tax Collector") shall keep a
correct account of all moneys collected by him/her as taxes under the authority
of any duplicate(s) in his/her possession. He/She shall mark "paid" on each
duplicate, at the name of each taxable, the amount of taxes paid and the date
on which payment was made.
   2.   The Tax Collector shall, on a weekly basis during the discount and face
amount tax payment periods, provide a true, verified statement, in writing and
on a form approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development ("DCED"), to the Borough Secretary for all taxes collected for the
Borough during the previous week, giving the names of taxables, the amount
collected from each, along with discounts granted and the total amount of taxes
received and discounts granted. The form to be submitted to the Borough
Secretary is attached to Resolution No. 15-2020 and incorporated herein.
   3.   The Tax Collector shall, on or before the tenth of each month during
the penalty tax payment periods, provide a true, verified statement, in writing
and on a form approved by the DCED, to the Borough Secretary for all taxes
collected for the Borough during the previous month, giving the names of
taxables, the amount collected from each, along with penalties applied and the
total amount of taxes received and penalties applied. The form to be submitted
to the Borough Secretary is attached to Resolution No. 15-2020 and incorporated
herein.
   4.   The Tax Collector shall include with each statement made under this
Section a reconciled monthly tax collector's report for each type of tax
collected. The report shall be reconciled from the tax duplicates to the amount
of taxes remaining to be collected.
   5.   If the Tax Collector does not provide the statement, including the
reconciled reports, within the prescribed period, Council may impose a late
filing fee in accordance with the Local Tax Collection Law. The statement with
reconciled reports shall not be considered filed until all fees have been paid.
   6.   The Tax Collector shall pay over with his/her statement, including the
reconciled reports to the Portage Borough Treasurer all moneys collected as
taxes along with penalties, if any.
   7.   The Tax Collector shall receive his/her compensation upon the filing of
the statements, including the reconciled reports with the Borough Secretary.
   8.   When a self-addressed, stamped envelope is provided to the Tax
Collector, a receipt of payment shall be mailed to the taxpayer.
   9.   A.   Definitions. The following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given to them within this Section unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
         ADDITIONAL CHARGE - any interest, fee, penalty or charge accruing to
and in excess of the face amount of the real estate tax as provided in the real
estate tax notice.
         QUALIFYING EVENT -
         (1)   For the purposes of real property, the date of transfer of
ownership; and
         (2)   For manufactured or mobile homes, the date of transfer of
ownership or the date a lease agreement commences for the original location or
relocation of a manufactured or mobile home on a parcel of land not owned by
the owner of the manufactured or mobile home. The term does not include the
renewal of a lease for the same location.
         TAX COLLECTOR. The elected tax collector for Portage Borough, any
authorized or designated delinquent tax collector, the Cambria County Tax Claim
Bureau or any alternative collector of taxes as provided for in the Act of July
7, 1947 (P.L. 1368, No. 542), known as the Real Estate Tax Sale Law, an
employee, agent or assignee authorized to collect the tax, a purchaser of claim
for the tax or any other person authorized by law or contract to secure
collection of, or take any action at law or in equity against the person or
property of the taxpayer for the real estate tax or amounts, liens or claims
derived from the real estate tax.
      B.   Waiver. The Tax Collector shall, for tax years beginning on and
after January 1, 2023, grant a request to waive additional charges for real
estate taxes if the taxpayer does all of the following:
         (1)   Provides a waiver request of additional charges on a form
provided by the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development
to the Tax Collector in possession of the claim within 12 months of a
qualifying event;
         (2)   Attests that a tax notice was not received;
         (3)   Provides the Tax Collector in possession of the claim with one
of the following:
            (a)   A copy of the deed showing the date of the real property
transfer; or
            (b)   A copy of the title following the acquisition of a mobile or
manufactured home subject to taxation as real estate showing the date of
issuance or a copy of an executed lease agreement between the owner of a mobile
or manufactured home and the owner of a parcel of land on which the mobile or
manufactured home will be situated showing the date the lease commences; and
         (4)   Pays the face value amount of the tax notice for the real estate
tax with the waiver-request.
(Res. 15-2020, 6/1/2020; as amended by Res. 14-2022, 10/17/2022)
L.   Contracts.
§ 175.   COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   1.   Scope. The scope of this Section is to establish a system of
competitive bidding as required by
Article XVI, Section
1603 of the Portage Borough Charter and to establish a procedure to be followed
when purchasing goods or services at costs below the base amount requiring
written and telephonic quotations.
   2.   Establishment of Base Amounts Requiring Competitive Bidding and Written
and Telephonic Quotations. The Borough Council shall establish by resolution
the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and telephonic
quotations. The Borough Council may adjust these amounts annually to reflect
the adjustments determined by the Department of Labor and Industry as per
section
1402  of the Borough Code.
   3.   Procedure for Contracts and Purchases in Excess of the Limits Requiring
Competitive Bidding. For purchases or contracts in excess of the amount
established by resolution as per Subsection 2. hereof and not otherwise exempt
from competitive bidding by statute shall be subject to the following
procedure:
      A.   Authorization to Advertise. The Borough Manager shall request
authorization from Borough Council to advertise for bids.
      B.   Bid Requests. When appropriate, a bid form, specifications and
vendor list shall be prepared. A date is selected for the receipt and opening
of bids. If necessary, a date is selected for a pre-bid conference.
      C.   Notice. Due notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Borough as identified at the most recent reorganization
meeting. If advertised in a weekly newspaper, notice shall be published once a
week for 2 successive weeks. If advertised in a daily newspaper, notice shall
be published at least 2 times at intervals of not less than 3 days. In either
instance, the first advertisement shall be published not more than 45 days and
the second advertisement not less than 10 days prior to the date fixed for the
opening of bids. Notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place within the
Borough.
      D.   Contents of Notice. Advertisements shall contain, at a minimum, the
date, time and location for opening of bids and if applicable, state the amount
of any bond or security being required by Council.
      E.   Electronic Submission of Bids. Borough Council may, by resolution,
permit the electronic submission of bids. Said resolution shall provide for the
format and requirements for electronically submitted bids.
      F.   Bid Opening. Bids are to be received by the date and time provided
for in the notice referenced in Subsection 3. D. herein. The bids may be opened
and read by the Borough Manager, during normal business hours, provided that at
least 2 other Borough officials are present. Other officials include; Borough
Engineer, Borough Solicitor, Street Commissioner, Police Chief or Borough
Secretary. The bids shall be tabulated and analyzed. Bidders shall be notified
and other interested parties, upon request, shall be notified of the date, time
and location of the opening of bids and may be present when the bids are
opened. A recommendation shall be prepared by the Borough Manager for Council's
consideration at a public meeting. Bids may also be opened and read at any
advertised meeting of the Borough Council (provided that proper notice thereof
has been given).
      G.   Awarding of Bids. The award of contracts shall only be made by
public announcement at the meeting at which bids are received, or at a
subsequent meeting, the time and place of which shall be publicly announced
when bids are received. If, for any reason, one or both of the beforementioned
meetings shall not be held, the same business may be transacted at any
subsequent meeting if at least 5 days notice thereof shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation as identified by Council at the most recent
reorganization meeting.
   4.   Procedure for Purchases which Require Written or Telephonic Price
Quotations. For purchases in an amount which require written or telephone price
quotations, and not otherwise exempt by statute from these provisions shall be
subject to the following procedure:
      A.   At Least Three Quotations Required. Written or telephonic price
quotations from at least 3 qualified and responsible contractors shall be
requested for all contracts in excess of the base amount established pursuant
to Subsection 2. hereof, which would not require any formal process, but less
than the base amount established pursuant to Subsection 2. hereof which would
require competitive bidding. In lieu of price quotations, a memorandum shall be
kept on file showing that fewer than 3 qualified contractors exist in the
market area within which it is practicable to obtain quotes.
      B.   Content of Telephonic Quotations. A written record of telephonic
price quotations shall be made and shall contain at least the date of
quotation, the name of the contractor and the contractor's representative, the
construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance or work which was the subject
of the quotation and the price.
      C.   Three Year Retention Period. Written price quotations, written
records of telephonic price quotations and memoranda shall be retained for a
period of three years.
      D.   Electronic Mail. Written price quotations as used throughout this
section shall include electronic mail.
   5.   Contact Award and Purchase Criteria. In awarding contracts and making
purchases, Borough Council shall have the right to take into consideration the
following factors in determining the lowest qualified and responsible bidder;
the availability, cost and quality of service and Council may establish pre-
qualification standards.
   6.   Performance Bonds. A successful bidder who is awarded a contract or
purchase pursuant to Subsection 3. above may, at the discretion of Borough
Council, be required to furnish a bond or irrevocable letter of credit or other
security with suitable reasonable requirements guaranteeing the work to be done
with sufficient surety in an amount as determined by Council which shall not be
less than 10% nor more than 100% of the amount of the liability under the
contract. Said bond, irrevocable letter of credit or other security shall be
furnished within 10 to 20 days after the contract has been awarded, as
specified by Council.
   7.   Contracts or Purchases Below the Amount Requiring Written or Telephonic
Quotations. Contracts or purchases below the amount established pursuant to
Subsection 2. above, requiring written or telephonic quotations shall be
subject to the following “purchase order” procedure:
      A.   Purchases may be undertaken pursuant to a purchase order signed by
the department head, the Borough Manager and the Secretary/Administrative
Assistant. The signature of the department head attests to the fact that the
item is needed, is budgeted and that funds have been appropriated. Approval of
the budget by the Borough Council is synonymous with appropriating funds. The
department head is responsible for ensuring that the department budget is not
exceeded. The Borough Manager's signature attests to the overall necessity of
the purchase and indicates that he is aware of the purchase. The Borough
Secretary prepares the purchase order, encumbers funds to meet the obligation
incurred by issuance of the purchase order and maintains a log of purchase
orders with opening and closing entries, recording the details and status of
the purchase. An opening entry is made when the purchase order is cut and funds
encumbered. A closing entry is made when the invoice has been paid. The Borough
Secretary's signature attests to the fact that the purchase order has been
logged and an encumbrance made.
      B.   Purchase orders are issued for all contracts for the purpose of
budget control. Purchase orders are multi-copy forms equivalent to promissory
notes. The department head keeps a copy for file and budget control. The
Borough Secretary keeps a copy matching with the invoice, for budget control
and for file. The original is sent to the vendor and authorizes the vendor to
provide the service or product to the Borough and to expect payment in due
course following invoicing.
      C.   Purchase orders originate by the department head obtaining and
recording at least 3 competitive quotations and filing a purchase requisition
form with the Borough Secretary. The requisition form must contain all of the
information needed for preparation of the purchase order. For purchases less
than $1,000, the Borough Manager's signature is not necessary. The Borough
Manager may give his proxy approval verbally or by electronic communication.
   8.   Blanket Purchase Orders. Blanket purchase orders are used to provide
authority for repeated small purchases at the business of a single vendor, such
as a hardware store or office supply store. A single purchase order may be
issued periodically to a vendor permitting a number of small purchases, the
individual value of which may not exceed $500. The purchase order bears a not-
to-exceed amount which the cumulative value of individual purchases may not
exceed. Authorized employees may purchase small items from the vendor on the
basis of their signature.
   9.   Emergency Purchases. An emergency may be a declared or undeclared
emergency condition that makes it prudent or necessary for the department head
to take action to purchase or contract for goods or services. In any instance
where the public welfare or convenience is at stake, the department head is to
take what purchasing action is necessary, however, not to be in abrogation of
Subsections 3. and/or 4. above. After the emergency has passed, a confirming
purchase order, with retroactive approval, is to be prepared documenting the
purchase or contract. A confirming purchase order may be used to buy needed but
unanticipated parts or supplies required to keep employees and equipment
working.
(Ord. 2-2014, 5/5/2014)
M.   Recall.
§ 181.   OFFICERS SUBJECT TO RECALL.
Any person holding an elective office of the Borough of Portage, whether by
election or appointment, shall be subject to removal from office at a recall
election in the manner provided by the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1301)
§ 182.   RECALL PROCEDURE.
Recall shall follow the procedure outlined in the Charter (
Article XVII, §
1702).
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1302)
§ 183.   NOTICE TO INCUMBENT, RECALL ELECTIONS, DISQUALIFICATION FROM OFFICE
AND LIMITATIONS.
These matters are provided for in the Charter (
Article XVII, §§
1703-
1706). (Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1303)
N.   Initiative and Referendum.
§ 185.   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM PROCEDURES.
These procedures are provided in the Charter (
Article XVIII, §§
1801-
1807). (Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1401)
O.   Transition and Continuation.
§ 191.   CONTROL.
The Borough of Portage shall own and control all that it owned and controlled
and be obligated for all that it was obligated for after the Charter takes
effect.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1501)
§ 192.   TRANSITION AND CONTINUATION.
All other provisions set forth in the Charter for transition and continuation
shall be as provided in the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1502)
P.   General Provisions.
§ 195.   ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT.
Any ordinance related to the operations of boards, commissions and authorities
of the Borough of Portage in conflict with provisions of the Charter shall be
amended to conform to the Charter.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1601)
§ 196.   SEVERABILITY.
It is the intention of the electors of the Borough of Portage that if any
portions of the Charter or this Part are held to be invalid, that the remainder
of the Charter or this Part remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1602)
§ 197.   EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Part of the Borough of Portage shad become effeotive on the first Monday
of January, 1996.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996, § 1603)
PART 2
PENSION PLANS
A.   Nonuniformed Municipal Employee Pension Plan.
§ 201.   ELECTION TO ENROLL IN THE PENNSYLVANIA MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
Portage Borough, being a member municipality of the Pennsylvania Municipal
Retirement System, hereby elects to change its member benefits in that System
as authorized by the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, Act 15 of 1974, as
amended, and does hereby agree to be bound by all the requirements and
provisions of said Law, and to assume all obligations, financial and otherwise,
placed upon member municipalities. All references hereafter shall be based on
benefits negotiated between the Board and the municipality under the provisions
of Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §I)
§ 202.   MEMBERSHIP.
Membership in the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System shall be mandatory
for all full-time municipal employees of the Borough. Membership for part-time
employees is optional. The election by part-time employees to join the System
must be made within one year after the employee first enters the service of the
Borough. Membership for elected officials and employees hired on a temporary or
seasonal basis is prohibited, as is membership for individuals paid only a fee
basis.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §II)
§ 203.   CREDIT FOR PRIOR SERVICE.
Credit for prior service for original members is granted for each year or
partial year thereof that the member was employed by the Borough from original
date of hire or the expiration of the member's probationary period if one so
existed. Benefits provided to members in the agreement dated March 5, 2007
shall accrue based on all credited service granted and earned in accordance
with this Section.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §III)
§ 204.   PAYMENT FOR ANY OBLIGATION ESTABLISHED.
Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this Part 2A and the
agreement between the Board and Portage Borough shall be made by the Borough in
accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law and Act 205 of 1984,
the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §IV)
§ 205.   AGREEMENT.
As part of this Part 2A, the Borough agrees that the System shall provide the
benefits set forth in the agreement between the Board and Portage Borough,
dated March 5, 2007. The passage and adoption of this Part 2A by Portage
Borough is an official acceptance of said agreement and the financial
obligations resulting from the administration of said benefit package. Portage
Borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due to the
acceptance of the benefit structure outlined in the above-referenced agreement.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §V)
§ 206.   AUTHORIZATION.
Portage Borough intends this Part 2A to be the complete authorization of the
Borough's municipal pension plan and it shall become effective and specifically
repeal Ord. 1-1997 either immediately or on January 1, 2007, which is the
effective date of the agreement dated March 5, 2007, between the Pennsylvania
Municipal Retirement System and Portage Borough, whichever is later.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §VI)
§ 207.   COPY FILED WITH THE PENNSYLVANIA MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
A duly certified copy of this Part 2A and the referenced agreement shall be
filed with the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. Membership for the municipal employees of Portage Borough in the
Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System shall be effective the first day of
September, 1997, with the revised plan structure reflected in the agreement
dated March 5, 2007, effective the first day of January, 2007.
(Ord. 2-2007, 3/5/2007, §VII)
B.   Police Pension Plan. 1
[Reserved]
 
Notes
     Editor's Note: Ord. 11-2007, 12/3/2007, amended and restated in its
  entirety the police pension plan previously enacted by Ord. 3-1998, 7/6/1998.
1 The complete restated police pension plan enacted by Ord. 11-2007, 12/3/2007,
  as amended by Ord. 5-2010, 7/7/2010, Ord. 9-2011, 12/16/2011, and Ord. 1-
  2012, 1/3/2012, are on file at the Borough office.
PART 3
AUTHORITIES
A.   Municipal Authority of Portage Borough.
§ 301.   INTENTION TO ORGANIZE AUTHORITY.
It is the desire and intention of the municipal authorities of this Borough of
Portage, Pennsylvania to organize an authority under the "Municipality
Authorities Act of 1935," approved June 28, 1935, P.L. 463, and its amendments
and supplements, for the purpose of acquiring, owning and operating or leasing
any and all structures, facilities or undertakings which an authority is
authorized to construct, improve, maintain or operate under the provisions of
the said Act.
(Ord. 1-1941, 12/15/1941, § 1)
§ 302.   NAME OF AUTHORITY.
The name of the proposed authority is the "Municipal Authority of the Borough
of Portage." (Ord. 1-1941, 12/15/1941, $2)
§ 303.   ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
The proposed articles of incorporation of said authority are as follows:
      A.   The name of the authority shall be the "Municipal Authority of the
Borough of Portage."
      B.   The Municipal Authority of the Borough of Portage shall be formed
under the "Municipal Authorities Act of 1935," approved June 28, 1935, 463, and
its amendments and supplements.
      C.   No other authority organized under the "Municipal Authorities Act of
1935," approved June 28, 1935, Pl. 463, and its supplements and amendments, or
under the act approved December 27, 1935 (Special Sessions) of 1933, P.L. 114)
is in existence in and for the Borough of Portage.
      D.   The name of the incorporating municipality, together with the names
and addresses of the municipal authorities, is as follows: 'Here followed the
name of the incorporating municipality together with the names and addresses of
the municipal authorities.]
      E.   The names and address and terms of office of the first five members
of the board of said municipal authority of the Borough of Portage shall be as
follows:
[Here followed the names and addresses and terms of office of the first five
members of the board of said municipal authority.]
(Ord. 14941, 12/15/1941, § 3)
§ 304.   PURPOSE.
This Part is deemed necessary for the public peace, health, morals, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Portage, Pennsylvania, and in the exercise
of the police powers of the Borough government, and shall take effect
immediately upon its final passage.
(Ord. 1-1941, 12/15/1941, § 5)
B.   Portage Area Sewer Authority.
§ 311.   INTENTION TO ORGANIZE AUTHORITY.
It is the desire of the Borough Council of the Borough of Portage, in the
County of Cambria and State of Pennsylvania, and the said Borough Council
hereby signifies its intention to organize an authority under the Municipal
Authorities Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended.
(Ord. 284, 3/2/1970, § 1)
§ 312.   ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
In pursuance of said desire and intention and in conformity with the terms and
provisions of said Municipal Authorities Act and its amendments, the proposed
articles of incorporation are hereby set forth in full, as follows:
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
PORTAGE AREA SEWER AUTHORITY
TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA, HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA
In compliance with the requirements of the Municipal Authorities Act of 1945,
approved May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended, and pursuant to ordinances adopted
by the Municipal Authorities of the Township of Portage and the Borough of
Portage, authority be established under the provisions of the aforementioned
last; the Township and the Borough of Portage, desire that a joint municipal
authority be established and that a certificate of incorporation be issued to
said authority, do hereby certify:
      A.   The name of the authority shall be the 'Portage Area Sewer
Authority"
      B.   The authority is formed under the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as
amended, for the purpose of constructing and erecting a sewer system and sewage
disposal plant by means of the sale of sewer revenue bonds, and to undertake
any and all other functions usually undertaken and performed by a sewer
company.
      C.   No other authority has been organized under the provisions of this
Act, or the Act approved June 28, 1935, P.L. 463, and is in existence within
the said Township and Borough, except the following:
         (1)   Portage Municipal Water Authority, organized by the Borough of
Portage.
         (2)   The Tri-Township Water Authority, organized by and between the
Township of Croyle, Township of Summerhil and the Township of Portage.
      D.   The names of the incorporating municipalities are: Township of
Portage in the County of Cambria and the State of Pennsylvania; the Borough or
Portage in the County of Cambria and State of Pennsylvania.
      E.   The names and addresses of the Board of Supervisors of the Township
of Portage are as follows: [Here followed the names and addresses of the Board
of Supervisors of the Township of Portage].
The names and addresses of the Borough Council of the Borough of Portage are as
follows: [Here followed the names and address of Borough Council of the Borough
of Portage].
      G.   The names and addresses and terms of office of the first members of
the board of said authority are as follows: [Here followed the names and
addresses and terms of office of the first members of the board of said
authority].
      H.   The term of existence of the Portage Area Sewer Authority shall be
hereby increased to a term of 50 years from the date of approval by the
Secretary of :he Commonwealth of its Articles of Amendment to its Articles of
Incorporation unless sooner dissolved according to law. [Res. 1-1997]
All of whom reside in and are citizens of the respective Township of Portage
and the Borough of Portage, Cambria County; Pennsylvania.
WITNESS, the hands and seals of the President and Secretary of the following
Borough.
(Ord. 284, 3/2/1970, § 2; as amended by Res. 1-1997, 1/20/1997)
§ 313.   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO FILE.
The said proposed articles of incorporation of said authority shall be executed
by and on behalf of the Borough of Portage by the President of the Borough
Council of said Borough and the seal of said Borough shall be thereto affixed,
attested by the Secretary of the Borough Council of the said Borough, and filed
with the Secretary of the Commonwealth. The Solicitor is hereby authorized and
directed to cause to be published the notice of intention to file the articles
of incorporation with the Secretary of the Commonwealth as required by the
aforementioned Act.
(Ord. 284. 3/2/1970, § 3)
PART 4
FIRE DEPARTMENT
A.   Volunteer Firemen's Relief Association.
§ 401.   RECOGNITION OF VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   1.   The following association is hereby recognized as actively engaged in
providing fire protection and/or emergency services in the Borough of Portage:
      Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Allocation
   2.   The above named association has been formed for the benefit of its
members and their families in case of death, sickness, temporary or permanent
disability or accident suffered in the line of duty.
   3.   The above named association of the Borough of Portage is designated the
proper association to receive such funds as are due and payable to the Borough
Treasurer by the Treasurer of the State of Pennsylvania from the tax on
premiums from foreign fire insurance companies.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 402.   CERTIFICATION TO AUDITOR GENERAL.
The Borough Council shall annually certify to the Auditor General of the
Commonwealth, the name of the active association and the percentage of service
it contributes to the protection of the Borough of Portage. Such certification
shall be on forms prescribed by the Auditor General.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 403.   ANNUAL APPROPRIATION.
There is annually appropriated from the Borough Treasury all such sums of money
that may hereafter be paid into the Borough Treasury by the Treasurer of the
State of Pennsylvania on account of taxes paid on premiums of foreign fire
insurance companies in pursuance of the Act of December 18, 1984, No. 205, §
701 et seq. as hereafter amended, supplemented. modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania. Such monies received by the Borough Treasurer
from the State Treasurer shall be distributed to the duly recognized
association within 60 days of receipt. The funds shall be distributed on the
basis of the percentage of service established in the certification to the
Auditor General and with other provisions of the Act.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
B.   Authorization of Services of Portage Volunteer Fire Company.
§ 411.   FIRE COMPANY RECOGNIZED.
The Portage Volunteer Fire Department, organized and existing in the Borough of
Portage, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, is hereby designated as the officially
recognized fire company for the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1997, 9/8/1997, § 1)
§ 412.   AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES OF THE FIRE COMPANY.
   1.   The fire company recognized by the Borough is hereby authorized to
provide such services to the Borough as may be necessary for the protection of
property and persons situate therein, which include, by way of example and not
of limitation, the extinguishment of fires and prevention of loss of life and
property from fire, automobile accidents, medical emergencies, hazardous
materials incidents and other dangerous situations.
   2.   The fire company may also provide nonemergency and public service
functions such as, again by way of example and not limitation, removing water
from property after storms and assisting in the removal, abatement and
prevention of damage or injury to persons or property, whether through natural
causes of manmade situations.
   3.   The fire company may also conduct and participate in such training
activities and drills, either within or outside of the Borough, as may be
deemed necessary by the officers of the fire company to maintain proficiency in
providing service.
   4.   The fire company may also respond to calls and provide services to
municipalities outside of the Borough pursuant to mutual aid agreements.
(Ord. 3-1997, 9/8/1997, § 2)
§ 413.   AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES OF MEMBERS OF THE FIRE COMPANY.
In addition to actually participating in the activities of the fire company as
authorized above, or in going to or returning from any activity, the members of
the fire company recognized by the Borough are also authorized to do the
following things:
      A.   Engage in any type of drill, training, ceremony. practice, test or
parade when duly called from or authorized by an officer or officers of the
fire company.
      B.   Engage in fundraising activities for the fire company, when
authorized by an officer or officers of the fire company.
      C.   Engage in the performance of any other duty or activity authorized
by an officer of the recognized fire company.
(Ord. 3-1997, 9/8/1997, § 3)
§ 414.   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Part is to recognize the fire company as the official fire
company of the Borough and to state additional authorized activities of
firefighters for workmen's compensation purposes.
(Ord. 3-1997, 9/8/1997, § 4)
C.   Establishment and Collection of Reasonable Fees.
§ 421.   REIMBURSEMENT FOR AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT SERVICES.
The Borough of Portage hereby authorizes the Portage Volunteer Fire Company to
collect from persons who use their services as a result of a call to an
automobile accident a sum sufficient to reimburse the said Fire Company in full
for the use of any equipment by the said volunteer agency.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 1)
§ 422.   BILLING.
The Fire Company shall have the obligation to do the billing for any services
rendered and the fees shall be set by its Board of Trustees of the said Fire
Company and submitted to the Portage Borough Council for approval. (A copy of
the initial “fee schedule and emergency automobile accident equipment list” is
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, as if the same was set
forth more fully herein at length).
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 2)
§ 423.   NONPAYMENT.
In the event of nonpayment of services by any party, the Borough authorizes
and/or assigns to the Portage Volunteer Fire Company, for the sole purpose of
enforcing this Part 4C, the right to pursue legal remedies including, but not
limited to, collection actions in a court of law or equity. Any recovery of
money shall be paid over to the Fire Company which rendered the services.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 3)
§ 424.   FEE TO BE SET BY FIRE COMPANY AND APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
All emergency automobile accident equipment of the Fire Company shall be made
available to the requesting party and the assessment of fees for use thereof
shall be made and established by the Fire Company and submitted to the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 4)
§ 425.   BOROUGH RESERVES RIGHT TO AMEND, REPEAL OR REVOKE.
The municipality reserves the right to amend, repeal, and/or revoke this Part
4C at any time in the future.
(Ord. 3-1996, 6/3/1996; as added by; Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 5)
FEE SCHEDULE FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT
SUBJECT FEES
SUBJECT                     FEES
1.   VEHICLES
   A.   Engine 83-1   $100 per hour
   B.   Engine 83-2   $100 per hour
   C.   Engine 83-3   $100 per hour
   D.   Utility Truck $100 per hour
   E.   Brush Truck 83$100 per hour
2.   EQUIPMENT
   A.   Foam          $25 per gallon
   B.   Jaws of Life  $100 per use
   C.   Siccors       $100 per use
   D.   Rams          $100 per use
   E.   Air Bags      $100 per use
   F.   Sawzall       $25 per use
   G.   Air Chisel    $25 per use
   H.   Oil Dry       $15 per bucket
   I.   Oil Absorbent $10 per sock
   J.   Oil Absorbent $10 per pad
   K.   Road Flares   $5 per flare
   L.   Lighting      $75 per use
 
PART 5
BOARDS, AGENCIES AND COMMISSIONS
A.   Planning Commission.
§ 501.   CREATION OF COMMISSION.
A department of the Borough of Portage is hereby created to be known as the
"Portage Area Regional Planning Commission."
(Ord. 241, 8/7/1962, § 1; as amended by Ord. 270, 12/27/1967, § 3; and by Ord.
3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 502.   MEMBERSHIP OF COMMISSION.
The Borough Council shall appoint a Borough Planning Commission which shall
consist of five persons to serve for a term of 5 years. One member of the
Commission to be appointed on the first meeting day of each year. In the first
instance one member shall be appointed to serve for a term of 1 year, one
member for 2 years, one member for 3 years, one member for 4 years and one
member for 5 years and, annually thereafter, a member of said Commission shall
be appointed for a term of 5 years. An appointment to fill a casual vacancy
shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term. All members of the
Commission shall reside within the zone of jurisdiction of said Commission. The
members of said Commission shall serve without compensation and make semiannual
reports to the Mayor and Council of their transactions.
(Ord. 241, 8/7/1962, § 2)
§ 503.   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The said Commission shall make rules and regulations for their own organization
and procedure consistent with the ordinances of the Borough of Portage and the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 241, 8/7/1962, § 3)
§ 504.   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Borough Planning Commission shall perform all duties and exercise all
powers conferred by law upon Borough planning agencies.
(Ord. 241. 8/7/1962, § 4; as amended by Ord. 270, 12/27/1967, § 2; and by Ord.
3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 505.   APPROVAL OF PLANS, PLOTS AND REPLOTS.
All plans, plots and replots shall be reviewed in acoordance with the
procedures of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 241, 8/7/1962, § 5; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 506.   RECOMMENDATIONS.
The Borough Planning Commission may make recommendations to any public
authorities or any corporation or individuals in the Borough with reference to
the location of any buildings, structures or works to be erected or constructed
by them.
([Ord. 24], 8/7/1962, § 6)
§ 507.   REMOVAL OF MEMBER
Any member who shall not attend three regularly scheduled meetings within 1
calendar year, without just cause in the opinion of the majority of members of
Borough Council, may be removed from the Commission by majority vote of Borough
Council and a successor appointed by the Borough Council for the remainder of
the unexpired term of said removed member.
(Ord. 241, 8/7/1962, § 7)
§ 508.   APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
Upon enactment of this Part, the present members of the Borough Planning
Commission are hereby appointed and automatically members of the Portage
Borough Planning Commission.
(Ord. 24, 8/7/1962; as added by Ord. 270,12/27/1967, § 3; and as amended by
Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
B.   [Reserved]
C.   Recreation Commission.
§ 521.   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PORTAGE AREA JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION.
   1.   The Borough of Portage joins in the creation of the Portage Area Joint
Recreation Commission with the Township of Portage and the Portage Area School
District.
   2.   Said commission shall be created and operated pursuant to a joint
agreement that was entered into by said Borough on April 9, 1991.
   3.   Said agreement is available for inspection in the office of the Borough
Secretary and may be amended, from time to time, pursuant to 53 P.S. § 47701 et
seq.
(Ord. 2-1991, 4/9/1991)
§ 522.   JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION AGREEMENT.
   1.   There is hereby adopted and ratified an agreement for intergovernmental
cooperation known as the “Joint Recreation Commission Agreement,” hereinafter
referred to as the “agreement.”
   2.   This agreement is entered into pursuant to the provisions of § 2711 et
seq. of the Borough Code (53 P.S. § 47701 et seq.) and the Intergovernmental
Cooperation Law.
   3.   The purpose and objectives of the agreement are as follows:
      A.   To enter into all conduct authorized by § 2711 et seq. of the
Borough Code (53 P.S. § 47701 et seq.).
      B.   To enter into all conduct identified in the attached Joint
Recreation Commission Agreement. 1
   4.   The agreement shall be subject to all conditions and terms identified
in the Intergovernmental Cooperation Law and the Borough Code.
   5.   The duration of the agreement shall be indefinite, subject to
termination by either municipality as provided in the agreement.
(Ord. 2-1997, 6/2/1997; as amended by Ord. 3-2009, 4/6/2009, §§ 1–5)
 
Notes
1 Editor's Note: The Joint Recreation Commission Agreement is on file in the
  Borough office.
PART 6
FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS
§ 601.   USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   1.   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter "insurer")
doing business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall pay a claim of a named
insured for fire damage to a structure located within the Borough of Portage
where the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all
policies exceeds $7,500, unless the insurer is furnished by the Borough
Treasurer with a certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law
of 1921, as amended by Act 98 of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994 (collectively, the
"Act") and unless there is compliance with the procedures set forth in § 508(c)
and (d) of the Act.
   2.   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property ("municipal claims"), or there are expenses which
the Borough has incurred as a cost for the removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively "municipal
expenses"), the Borough Secretary of the Borough of Portage shall immediately
render a bill for such work, if he has not already done so. Upon written
request of the named insured specifying the tax description of the property,
the name and address of the insurer and the date of receipt by the insurer of a
loss report of the claim, the Treasurer shall furnish a certificate within 14
working days after the request, to the insurer, a certificate (or at his
discretion an oral notice confirmed in writing) either:
      A.   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or,
      B.   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
      C.   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
subsection (A) of this Section, the insurer shall transfer to the Treasurer an
amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay such sums prior to making
payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of subsection (3)
hereof.
   3.   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to subsection (2) of this Section, or where the Treasurer has issued a
certificate described in subsection (2)(A) indicating that there are no
municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the insurer shall
pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss agreed
upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60% of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or
structure, the following procedures must be followed:
      A.   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Treasurer, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or fraction
thereof.
      B.   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the Borough of Portage, a
contractor's signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under
the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Treasurer
from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate. f there is
more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by
all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
      C.   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Treasurer shall do the following:
         (1)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the Borough of
Portage to be required in removing, repairing or securing the building or
structure as required by this Part. Such costs shall include, without
limitation, any engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the
Borough in connection with such removal, repair or securing or any proceedings
related thereto; and,
         (2)   Mail to the named insured, at the address received from the
insurer, a notice the proceeds have been received by the Borough and that the
procedures under this subsection shall be followed.
         (3)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the Borough
a contractor's signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, in which event the Treasurer shall, if such
estimate is deemed by the Treasurer to be reasonable, return to the insured the
amount of the funds transferred to the Borough in excess of that required to
pay the municipal expenses; provided, the Borough has not commenced to remove,
repair or secure the building or other structure. in which case the Borough
will complete the work.
         (4)   Pay to the Borough Secretary, for reimbursement to the Borough
general fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the Borough of
Portage.
         (5)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund (without interest) to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Borough Secretary
that the repair, removal or securing of the building or other structure has
been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations of the
Borough of Portage.
         (6)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the ability
of the Borough of Portage to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal
claims or municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this ordinance, or to
insurance proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the codes of
the Borough of Portage or to enter into an agreement with the named insured
with regard to such other disposition of the proceeds as the Borough may deem
responsible.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 602.   LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
Nothing in this Part shall be construed to make an insurance company,
association or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this Part
or to make this Borough of Portage, any Borough official, a municipality or
public official an insured under a policy of insurance or to create an
obligation to pay delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses
other than as provided in this Part.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 603.   INSURANCE COMPANY RIGHTS RESERVED.
An insurance company, association or exchange making payment of policy proceeds
under this Part for delinquent taxes or structure removal liens or removal
expenses incurred by the Borough of Portage shall have a full benefit of such
payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 604.   CONSTRUCTION.
This Part shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to deter the
commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment of
property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 605.   NOTIFICATION OF PENNSYLVANIA DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
The Secretary of the Borough of Portage shall transmit a oertified copy of this
Part promptly to the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 606.   PENALTY.
Any owner of property, any named insured or insurer who violates the provisions
of this Part or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof
shall be sentenced, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of not more than $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day on which an offense shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-1996, 9/3/1996; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 7
OPEN RECORDS
§ 701.   POLICY.
   1.   The purpose of this policy is to assure compliance with Act 3 of 2008,
the Pennsylvania Right- to-Know Law, as amended; to provide access to public
records of Portage Borough; to preserve the integrity of Portage Borough’s
records; and to minimize the financial impact to the residents of the Borough
regarding the resources utilized in the receipt and processing of public record
requests and the retrieval and copying of public records.
   2.   It is the policy of the Borough to require the presence of a designated
employee when public records are examined and inspected and to charge
reasonable fees for duplication of public records of the Borough. Portage
Borough designates the Borough Manager as the Open Records Officer, responsible
for assuring compliance with the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law, in accordance
with the following guidelines:
      A.   The Borough Manager may designate certain employee(s) to process
public record requests.
      B.   The Borough Manager is responsible for minimizing, where possible,
the financial impact to the Borough regarding the resources utilized in the
receipt and processing of public record requests and the retrieval and copying
of public records.
      C.   All requests for public records of the Borough under this policy
shall be specific in identifying and describing each public record requested.
In no case shall the Borough be required to create a public record which does
not exist or to compile, maintain, format or organize a public record in a
manner in which the Borough does not currently compile, maintain, format or
organize the public record. All requests for public records shall be submitted
in writing and include the date of the request; requestor’s name, address, and
telephone number; certification of United States residency; signature of
requestor; and, if duplication is requested, appropriate payment.
      D.   The designated employee shall make a good faith effort to determine
whether each record requested is a public record.
      E.   The Borough shall facilitate a reasonable response to a request for
Portage Borough’s public records. In no case is the Borough expected to provide
extraordinary staff to respond to the request, but will respond in a manner
consistent with the Borough’s administrative responsibilities and consistent
with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law.
      F.   The designated employee shall respond to the requester within 5
business days from the date of receipt of the written request. If the Borough
does not respond within 5 business days of receipt thereof, the request is
deemed denied.
      G.   The response provided by the Borough shall consist of (1) approval
for access to the public record; (2) review of the request by the designated
employee; or (3) denial of access to the record requested.
      H.   If access to the public record requested is approved, the public
record shall be available for access during the regular business hours of the
Borough. The designated employee shall cooperate fully with the requester,
while also taking reasonable measures to protect Borough public records from
the possibility of theft and/or modification. The presence of a designated
employee is required when public records are examined and inspected.
      I.   Fees for duplication of public records shall be as established by
the Commonwealth’s Office of Open Records. The Borough may at its discretion
waive fees.
      J.   In the event the estimated cost of fulfilling a request submitted
under this policy is expected to exceed $100, the designated employee(s) shall
obtain the expected cost in advance of fulfilling the request to avoid
unwarranted expense of Borough resources.
      K.   If the request is being reviewed; the notice provided by the Borough
shall be in writing and include the reason for the review and the expected
response date, which shall be within 30 days of the notice of review. If the
Borough does not respond within 30 days thereof, the request is deemed denied.
Review of the request is limited to situations where:
         (1)   The record requested contains information which is subject to
access, as well as information which is not subject to access that must be
redacted prior to a grant of access. The redacted information is considered a
denial as to that information.
         (2)   The record requires retrieval from a remote location.
         (3)   A timely response cannot be accomplished due to staffing
limitations.
         (4)   A legal review is necessary to determine whether the record
requested is a public record.
         (5)   The requester has failed to comply with the Borough’s policy and
procedure requirements.
         (6)   The requester refuses to pay the applicable fees.
         (7)   The extent or nature of the request precludes a response within
the required time period.
Upon a determination that one of the factors listed above applies, the Borough
shall send written notice to the requester within 5 business days of receipt of
the request for access. The notice shall include a statement notifying the
requester that the request for access is being reviewed, the reason for the
review, a reasonable date that a response is expected to be provided and an
estimate of applicable fees owed when the record becomes available. If the date
that a response is expected to be provided is in excess of 30 days, following
the 5 business days allowed for, the request for access shall be deemed denied
unless the requester has agreed in writing to an extension to the date
specified in the notice. If the requester agrees to the extension, the request
shall be deemed denied on the day following the date specified in the notice if
the agency has not provided a response by that date.
      L.   If access to the record requested is denied, the notice provided by
the Borough shall be in writing as indicated on the form attached hereto
entitled “Denial of Request to Review and/or Duplicate Portage Borough
Records.”
      M.   If the request is denied or deemed denied, the requester may file an
appeal with the Commonwealth’s Office of Open Records within 15 business days
of the mailing date of the Borough’s notice of denial, or within 15 days of a
deemed denial. The appeal shall state the grounds upon which the requester
asserts that the record is a public record and shall address any grounds stated
by the agency for delaying or denying the request.
      N.   Within 30 days of the mailing date of the final determination of the
appeals officer, the requester or Borough may file a petition for review or
other document as required by rule of court with the Court of Common Pleas for
Cambria County. The decision of the court shall contain findings of fact and
conclusions of law based upon the evidence as a whole. The decision shall
clearly and concisely explain the rationale for the decision. A petition for
review under this Section shall stay the release of documents until a decision
is issued.
      O.   This policy shall be available for review at the Borough office.
(Res. 5-2008, 8/4/2008)
PART 8
MUNICIPAL ENERGY AGGREGATION
§ 801.   TITLE.
Municipal Energy Aggregation Ordinance of the Home Rule Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 1)
§ 802.   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be used in reference to the provisions of this
Part:
   CONTRACTED ELECTRIC GENERATION SUPPLIER–the entity with which the Home Rule
Borough of Portage has contracted through the Municipal Energy Aggregation
Program to provide a supply of electricity.
   EXCLUDED CONSUMERS–electricity consumers (1) that have opted out of the
Municipal Aggregation Program pursuant to the provisions of § 805, below; (2)
that have a special contract or agreement with an electric distribution
company; (3) other than residential consumers who are classified as retail
electric consumers or small commercial consumers which are under a small
commercial, small industrial or small business rate classification, and whose
maximum registered peak load was less than 25 kW within the last 12 months; (4)
that are enrolled in an electric distribution company’s customer assistance
program that does not include any electric generation supplier charges in the
calculation of the customer assistance program benefit; or (5) that are end-use
consumers served or authorized to be served by an electric cooperative.
   MUNICIPAL ENERGY AGGREGATION–the aggregation of residential consumers who
are classified as retail electric consumers within the Home Rule Borough of
Portage and small commercial consumers within the Home Rule Borough of Portage
which are under a small commercial, small industrial or small business rate
classification, and whose maximum registered peak load was less than 25 kW
within the last 12 months.
   MUNICIPAL ENERGY AGGREGATION PROGRAM–the program negotiated with the
contracted electric generation supplier which provides a supply of electricity
to certain residential and small commercial electricity consumers within the
Home Rule Borough of Portage on an opt-out basis.
   NON-EXCLUDED CONSUMER–an electricity consumer within the Home Rule Borough
of Portage which or who is not an excluded consumer.
Other terms defined in this Section are so defined in this Part by reference.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 2)
§ 803.   ADMINISTRATION.
All non-excluded consumers shall be supplied with electric generation supply
pursuant to the Municipal Energy Aggregation Program.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 3)
§ 804.   MUNICIPAL ENERGY AGGREGATION PROGRAM.
   1.   The Borough Manager of the Home Rule Borough of Portage is authorized
to enter into an agreement with an electric generation supplier for the
provision of electric generation supply services to non-excluded consumers
within the Home Rule Borough of Portage on an opt-out basis.
   2.   The contract shall, at a minimum, clearly indicate the price that the
contracted electric generation supplier will charge non-excluded consumers for
electric generation supply as well as the term of the contract. If the price is
a fixed rate, the price shall be expressed in cents per kilowatt hour. If the
contract provides for a percentage-off of the default service rate, or any
other type of pricing arrangement, an understandable description of the amount
of the percentage discount, or other pricing arrangement, and how the rate may
change shall be provided. If the contracted electric generation supplier will
charge different rates to different rate classes within the Home Rule Borough
of Portage, the applicable rate(s) to non-excluded consumers within each rate
class shall be described.
   3.   No non-excluded consumer shall be bound by a contract until at least 30
days following the mailing of the opt-out notices required by § 805 below, and
the expiration of any waiting period for a consumer to cancel the pending
change to the electric generation supplier following written confirmation by
contracted electric generation supplier.
   4.   The contracted electric generation supplier may not impose any terms,
conditions, fees, or charges on any consumer served by a Municipal Aggregation
Program that is materially different from the particular term, condition, fee,
or charge which was included within the contract between the Home Rule Borough
of Portage and the contracted electric generation supplier or the notices
provided pursuant to this Section.
   5.   The contracted electric generation supplier shall provide appropriate
consumer education materials to inform consumers about the existence of the
Municipal Aggregation Program and the highlights of the program at no cost to
the Home Rule Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 4)
§ 805.   OPT-OUT PROGRAM.
   1.   The Municipal Energy Aggregation Program shall be offered on an opt-out
basis.
   2.   After the Home Rule Borough of Portage executes a contract for electric
generation services with the contracted electric generation supplier, but prior
to including a consumer’s electric account or accounts in the Municipal
Aggregation Program, the contracted electric generation supplier shall provide
each consumer with written notice that the consumer’s account(s) will be
automatically included in the Municipal Aggregation Program unless the consumer
affirmatively opts-out of the Municipal Aggregation Program. The notice,
written in plain language, shall, at a minimum, include:
      A.   Disclosure of the price that the contracted electric generation
supplier will charge non- excluded consumers for electric generation service.
      B.   An itemized list and explanation of all fees and charges that are
not incorporated into the rates charged for electric generation service that
the contracted electric generation supplier will charge to the non-excluded
consumer for participating in the Municipal Aggregation Program, including any
early termination penalties and any surcharges, or portions thereof, that may
be assessed.
      C.   Disclosure of the estimated service commencement date and notice
that the non-excluded consumer may opt out of the Municipal Aggregation Program
at the end of the term of the contract with the contracted electric general
supplier and prior to the commencement of any subsequent municipal aggregation
contract.
      D.   A statement informing consumers that if they choose to opt out of
the Municipal Aggregation Program they will be served by the default service
provider until the consumer chooses an alternative electric generation
supplier.
      E.   A statement informing non-excluded consumers that, if they switch
back to the default service provider, they may not be served under the same
rates, terms, and conditions that apply to other non-excluded consumers within
the Municipal Aggregation Program.
      F.   Disclosure of any credit, collection and/or deposit policies and
requirements.
      G.   Disclosure of any limitations or conditions on consumer acceptance
into the Municipal Aggregation Program, including the date by which the
consumer must affirmatively opt- out of the program. The date shall not be less
than 30 days following the mailing of the opt-out notice.
      H.   A description of the process and associated time period for
consumers to opt out of the Municipal Aggregation Program.
      I.   A local or toll free telephone number, with the available calling
hours, that consumers may call with questions regarding the formation or
operation of the contracted electric generation supplier.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 5)
§ 806.   SAVINGS CLAUSE.
If any provision of this Part or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such holding shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this Part, which shall be given effect without
the invalid provisions or applications, and to this end, the provisions of this
Part are declared severable. All ordinances or parts of ordinances which are
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.
(Ord. 7-2010, 11/1/2010, § 6)
PART 9
COSTS OF COLLECTION ON DELINQUENT TAXES
§ 901.   COST OF COLLECTION SCHEDULE APPROVAL.
Portage Borough, Cambria County, approves and adopts the cost of collection
schedule attached hereto 1  and made apart of this Part to be imposed by
Berkheimer upon any taxpayer whose taxes are or become delinquent and/or remain
due and unpaid.
(Res. 13-2011, 12/16/2011, § 1)
 
Notes
1    Editor’s Note: The Cost of Collection Schedule is on file in the Borough
  office.
§ 902.   TAX COLLECTOR AUTHORIZED.
Berkheimer is authorized to retain said costs of collection set forth in the
attached schedule1 incurred in recovering delinquent taxes and assessed to the
delinquent taxpayer as allowed by law.
(Res. 13-2011, 12/16/2011, § 2)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
PART 1
ANIMAL NUISANCES
   §
101.   Nuisances
   §
102.   Noise Control
   §
103.   Public Grounds
   §
104.   Defecation Control
   §
105.   Exemptions
   §
106.   Penalties
PART 1
ANIMAL NUISANCES
§ 101.   NUISANCES.
No person shall keep or harbor any dog, cat or other animal in the Borough of
Portage so as to create offensive odors, excessive noise or unsanitary
conditions which are a menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public,
or otherwise permit the commission or existence of a nuisance as defined
hereinafter.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 1)
§ 102.   NOISE CONTROL.
Any dog, cat or other animal which by frequent and habitual barking, howling,
screeching, yelping or baying or in any way or manner injures or disturbs the
quiet of any person in the community, or which disturbs or endangers the
comfort, repose or health of persons, is hereby declared to be committing a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having custody of such
animal to harbor or permit it to commit such a nuisance.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 2)
§ 103.   PUBLIC GROUNDS.
Any dog, cat or other animal which scratches, digs or defecates upon any lawn,
tree, shrub, plant, building or any other public or private property, other
than the property of the owner or person in charge or control of such animal,
is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 3)
§ 104.   DEFECATION CONTROL.
No person being the owner or in charge or control of any cat, dog or other
animal shall allow or permit such animal to commit a nuisance on any school
grounds, Crichton-McCormick Memorial Park, sidewalk or other public property,
or upon any private property other than that of the owner or person in charge
or control of such dog, cat or other animal without the permission of the owner
of said property. Where the owner or person in charge or control of such animal
immediately removes all feces deposited by such animal and disposes of same in
a sanitary manner, such nuisance shall be considered abated.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 4; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 105.   EXEMPTIONS.
Persons with defective eyesight or hearing while relying upon a dog
specifically trained for these purposes shall be exempt from the operation of
this Part.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 5)
§ 106.   PENALTIES.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $600 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-1989, 7/10/1989, § 6; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDINGS
PART 1
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
   §
101.   Dangerous Buildings Defined
   §
102.   Dangerous Buildings; Nuisances
   §
103.   Investigation Procedures
   §
104.   Duties of Borough Engineer
   §
105.   Hearing Procedures
   §
106.   Standards for Repair, Vacation or Demolition
   §
107.   Enforcement Procedures
   §
108.   Penalties
   §
109.   Administrative Liability
PART 2
BUILDING PERMITS
   §
201.   Statement of Intent
   §
202.   Definitions
   §
203.   Application Procedure
   §
204.   Issuance of Permit
   §
205.   Permit Changes
   §
206.   Placards
   §
207.   Expiration of Permits
   §
208.   Inspection and Revocation
   §
209.   Fees
   §
210.   Appeals
   §
211.   Penalties
PART 3
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
   §
301.   Fence Construction
PART 1
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 101.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DEFINED.
All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed dangerous buildings:
      A.   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base.
      B.   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or covering.
      C.   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      D.   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the Borough of Portage.
      E.   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein.
      F.   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human
beings who live or may live therein.
      G.   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of Ere or
panic or those having insufficient stairways elevators, fire escapes or other
means of communication.
      H.   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property.
      I.   Those which, because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of
this Borough.
      J.   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of other
ordinances of the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 1)
§ 102.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; NUISANCES.
All dangerous buildings within the terms of §
101 of this Part are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be
repaired, vacated or demolished as hereinbefore and hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 2; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 103.   INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES.
Whenever it shall be reported or come to the attention of any Borough official
or police officer that any building or structure completed or in the process of
construction, or any portion thereof, is in a dangerous condition, such person
having knowledge thereof shall report same to the Council, and the Council
shall immediately cause an investigation and examination to be made of such
building or structure by the Borough Engineer. If such investigation or
examination indicates such building or structure to be dangerous in accordance
with the standards of §
101 of this Part, written report of such investigation shall be submitted to
the Council, specifying the exact condition of such building or structure and
setting forth whether or in what respect the structure is dangerous and whether
the structure is capable of being properly repaired or whether it shall be
removed as a dangerous structure.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 3)
§ 104.   DUTIES OF BOROUGH ENGINEER.
The Borough Engineer shall:
      A.   Inspect or cause to be inspected all public buildings, schools,
halls, churches, theaters, hotels, taverns, commercial manufacturing or loft
buildings for the purpose of determining whether any condition exists which
renders such places a dangerous building within the terms of §
101 of this Part.
      B.   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this Part.
      C.   Inspect any building, wall or structure reported (as hereinafter
provided for) by the Fire or Police Departments of this Borough as probably
existing in violation of the terms of this Part.
      D.   Notify in writing the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent and
all other persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land
records of the Recorder of Deeds of the County of Cambria, State of
Pennsylvania, of any building found by him to be a dangerous building within
the standards set forth in §
101 of this Part that:
         (1)   The owner must vacate, or repair or demolish said building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this Part.
         (2)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or may have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession.
         (3)   The mortgagee, agent or other persons having an interest in said
building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of Cambria
County, Pennsylvania, or the Borough records may, at his own risk, repair,
vacate or demolish said building or have such work or act done; provided, that
any person notified under this subsection to repair, vacate or demolish any
building shall be given such reasonable time not exceeding 30 days as may be
necessary to do, or have done the work or act required by the notice provided
for herein.
      E.   Set forth in the notice provided for in subsection (D) hereof, a
description of the building or structure deemed unsafe, a statement of the
particulars which make the building or structure a dangerous building and an
order requiring the same to be put in such condition as to comply with the
terms of this Part within such length of time, not exceeding 30 days, as is
reasonable.
      F.   Report to the Borough Council any noncompliance with the notice
provided for in subsections (D) and (E) hereof.
      G.   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Borough Council and testify
as to the conditions of dangerous buildings.
      H.   The Borough Council may appoint a Building Inspector, but in the
absence of art appointment, the Borough Engineer shall serve as Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 4)
§ 105.   HEARING PROCEDURES. The Borough Council shall:
      A.   Upon receipt of a report of the Borough Engineer as provided in §
104(F), hereof, give written notice to the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee,
agent and all other persons having an interest in said buildings as shown by
the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the County of Cambria, State of
Pennsylvania, to appear before them on the date specified in the notice to show
cause why the building or structure reported to be a dangerous building should
not be repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with the statement of
particulars set forth in the Borough Engineer's notice provided for herein in §
104(E).
      B.   Hold a hearing and hear such testimony as the Borough Engineer or
the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee or any other person having an interest
in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of
Cambria County, State of Pennsylvania, shall offer relative to the dangerous
building.
      C.   Make written findings of fact from the testimony offered pursuant to
subsection (B) as to whether or not the building in question is a dangerous
building within the terms of §
101, hereof.
      D.   Issue an order based upon findings of fact made pursuant to
subsection (C) commanding the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all
other persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land records
of the Recorder of Deeds of Cambria County, State of Pennsylvania, to repair,
vacate or demolish any building found to be a dangerous building within the
terms of this Part and provided that any person so notified, except the owners,
shall have the privilege of either vacating or repairing said dangerous
building; or any person not the owner of said dangerous building but having an
interest in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds
of the County of Cambria, State of Pennsylvania, may demolish said dangerous
building at his own risk to prevent the acquiring of a lien against the land
upon such said dangerous building by the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 5)
§ 106.   STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OF DEMOLITION.
The following standards shall be followed in substance in ordering repair,
vacation or demolition:
      A.   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this Part, it shall be ordered
repaired.
      B.   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety of general welfare of its occupants, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
      C.   In any case where a dangerous building is 50% damaged or decayed or
deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished, and
in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this Part, it shall be demolished. In all
cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the terms of this Part or any ordinance of the Borough or statute
of the State of Pennsylvania, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 6)
§ 107.   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   1.   If any structure is deemed to be a dangerous building within the
standards set forth in §
101 of this Part, the Borough Council shall forthwith cause written notice to
be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent and all other
persons having an interest in said building as shown by the deed of
registration of any such dangerous building.
   2.   The notice required by this Section shall be served personally upon the
owner of a dangerous building, if the owner resides in the Borough, or
personally upon his agent if such agent resides within the Borough. If personal
service as required herein cannot be obtained or if the owner resides outside
of the Borough, such notice shall be sent to the owner of a dangerous building
by registered mail at the last known address thereof.
   3.   The notice shall identify the building or structure deemed dangerous
and contain a statement of the particulars which made this building or
structure a dangerous building and an order requiring the same to be put in
such condition as to comply with the terms of the order of this Part; provided,
in any case where the notice prescribed the repair of any structure, the owner
thereof shall have the option to remove such structure in lieu of making the
repairs thereto within the above time limits.
   4.   Such notice shall require any person notified to repair, vacate or
demolish any building to commence the work or act required by the notice within
10 days of such notice and to complete such repair or removal within 30 days
thereof.
   5.   The Borough Council shall cause to be placed on all dangerous buildings
a notice reading substantially as follows:
      "This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Council
of the Borough of Portage. This notice is to remain on this building until it
is repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been
give to the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building. It is
unlawful to remove this notice until compliance is made under the terms
contained and notice given to the above named party."
   6.   The Borough Engineer is hereby given the duties to inspect and enforce
this Part. (Ord. 3-1999)
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 7; as amended by Ord. 1-1985, 2/4/1985; and by Ord.
3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 108.   PENALTIES.
   1.   The owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee or any other person who shall
fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate or demolish any such
dangerous building given by any person authorized by this Part, or any
regulation m order issued thereunder shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000 plus costs and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30
days; provided, each day's continuance of a violation shall constitute a
separate offense. Penalties contained in this Part are in addition to any other
remedies provided by this Part.
   2.   Any person removing the notice provided for in §
107(E), hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not
to exceed $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
      If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee or any other person having an
interest in said building, as shown by the land records of the Recorder of
Deeds of the County of Cambria fails to comply with any notice or order to
repair, vacate or demolish any dangerous building within 30 days, the Borough
Council is empowered to cause such building or structure to be repaired,
vacated or demolished by the Borough and to cause the costs of such repair,
vacation or demolition, together with a penalty of 10%, and together with
reasonable attorney's fees and costs, to be charged against the land on which
the building existed as a municipal lien or to recover such costs in a suit at
law against the owner or other such person having in interest in the building.
Provided, the recovery of such costs and expense, together with the penalty,
may be in addition to the penalty imposed in subsections (1) and (2) of this
Section.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 8; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 109.   ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
No officer, agent or employee of the Borough of Portage shall render himself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under
this Part. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee of the
Borough of Portage as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his duties under this Part shall be defended by the Borough
Solicitor until final determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 3-1981, 9/18/1981, § 10)
PART 2
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 201.   STATEMENT OF INTENT.
It shall he unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to
undertake or cause to be undertaken the construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, alteration or relocation of any building or structure unless an
approved building permit has been obtained from the Borough Building Permit
Officer.
(Ord. 320 2/3/1975, § 1; as amended by Ord. 2-2002 4/1/2002, § 2)
§ 202.   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Part, the following definitions shall apply:
   BUILDING- a combination of materials to forma permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all mobile homes and trailers to be used
for human habitation.
   PERSON - any person, persons, partnership, business or corporation.
   STRUCTURE - a combination of materials to form anything constructed or
erected on the ground or attached to the ground including, but not limited to,
buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, mobile homes, carports, porches,
driveways, swimming pools and oilier similar items.
(Ord. 320 2/3/1975, § 2)
§ 203.   APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
Application for such a building permit shall be made in writing to the Building
Permit Officer on forms supplied by the Borough. Such applications shall
contain at least the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.   Site location.
      E.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost.
      F.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
(Ord. 320 2/3/1975, § 3)
§ 204.   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
The Building Permit Officer shall issue a building permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed construction will be in conformance with all
applicable requirements and regulations.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 4)
§ 205.   PERMIT CHANGES.
The Building Permit Office shall issue a building permit. only alter it has
been determined that the proposed construction will be in conformance with all
applicable requirements and regulations.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 5)
§ 206.   PLACARDS.
In addition to the building permit, the Building Permit Officer shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit the
date of its issuance and be signed by the Building Permit Officer.
(Ord 320, 2/3/1975, § 6)
§ 207.   EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
Work on the proposed construction shall begin within 6 months after the date of
issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire. Work on the
proposed construction shall be completed within 1 year after the claw of
issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire. Extensions of the
permit periods may he granted by the Borough Council in its sole discretion.
Requests for extensions shall be made by the permit holder by appearing in
person at a regularly scheduled Council meeting. Construction shall be
considered to have started with the first placement of permanent construction
of the site, such as pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage
of excavation. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the start
of construction includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the
structure or any part thereof on its pilings or foundation, or the affixing of
any prefabricated structure or mobile home to its permanent site. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, land clearing, grading,
filling; excavation for basement footings, piers or foundations; erection of
temporary forms: the installa Lion of piling under proposed subsurface
footings; or the installation of sewer, gas and water pipes or electric or
other service lines from the street.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 7; as amended by Ord. 9-2000 9/5/2000)
§ 208.   INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
During the construction period, the Building Permit Officer or other authorized
official may inspect the premises to determine that the work is progressing in
compliance with the information provided on the permit application and with all
applicable municipal laws and ordinances. In the event the Building Permit
Officer discovers that the work does not comply with the permit application or
any applicable laws and ordinances, or that there has been a false statement or
misrepresentation by any applicant, the Building Permit Officer shall revoke
the building permit and report such fact to the borough Council for whatever
action is consiclers necessary.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 8)
§ 209.   FEES.
Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the Borough, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Building Permit Officer, in an amount as established from
time to time by resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 9; as amended by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 210.   APPEALS.
Any person aggrieved by the Building Permit Officer's es:imate of the cost of
the proposed construction may appeal to the Borough Council. Such appeal must
be filed, in writing, within 30 clays after the determination by the Building
Permit Officer. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Borough Council shall set a
time and place not less than 10 nor more than 30 days for the purpose a hearing
the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing of the appeal shall be
given to all parties at which time they may appear to be heard. The
determination of the estimated cost by the Borough Council shall be final in
all cases.
(Ord. 320, 2/3/1975, § 10)
§ 211.   PENALTIES.
Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this Part, or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the Building Permit Officer or any other authorized
employee of the Borough shall, upon conviction thereof, he sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above
penalties, all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity
for the proper enforcement of this Part. The imposition of a line or penalty
for violation or noncompliance with this Part shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue; and, all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliances within a reasonable
time. Any structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered
or relocated in noncompliance with this Part may be declared by the Borough
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 320 2/3/1975, § 11; as amended by Ord. 3-1999,4/5/1999; and by Ord. 1-
2000, 2/7/2000)
PART 3
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 301.   FENCE CONSTRUCTION.
A.   Permit required. No person, corporation, partnership, company or other
entity shall construct, install, add to or alter a fence in the Borough, unless
a permit is secured therefor.
B.   Height limitations. No fence shall be constructed which exceeds any of the
following height limitations:
   1.   Forty-eight inches in any front yard or street yard (side yard abutting
a street);
   2.   Seventy-two inches in any rear yard or non-street side yard.
C.   Barbed wire and other unsafe fencing prohibited. Barbed wire and all other
fencing that is designed to cut or injure is prohibited.
D.   Construction standards. Fences must be of good quality and must be firmly
and sturdily footed in the ground. Portable fences, including but not limited
to snow fences, shall not be used as a permanent fence. A fence is considered
"permanent" if it remains situated on a property for a period in excess of 30
days. This provision does not apply to construction fences which are erected
upon properties that have validly permitted construction activities ongoing.
E.   Treatment of metal fences. Any fence erected which is made of a metal
fabric or which is partially made of any metal fabric shall be galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent the formation of rust and the metal used in the
fabric shall be at least 11 gauge or heavier, unless it is subject to other,
more stringent regulations regarding fencing.
F.   Maintenance and sturdiness.
   1.   Fences shall be maintained in a sturdy and good condition. Fences which
become loose, rusted or rotted, whether in whole or in part, shall be repaired,
replaced or removed.
   2.   Any fence that cannot support 150 pounds without bending, breaking,
leaning or moving shall be deemed unsturdy.
   3.   Any fence which exists in violation of this section shall be deemed to
be a public nuisance and abateable as such.
G.   Proximity to lot and curb lines. Fences shall be set back a minimum of 2
feet from all property lines, curb lines or other public rights-of-way.
H.   Variances.
   1.   Any property owner or tenant desiring to erect or maintain a fence
which does not conform to the provisions of this section may make written
application for a variance to the Borough Council.
   2.   Upon receipt of a variance request, the Borough Manager shall
investigate the circumstances of the variance request and make a written
recommendation to Council.
   3.   Council shall conduct a noticed public hearing within 60 days of the
written variance request and vote on whether or not to grant the request.
I.   Fences in existence at the time of enactment of this section.
   1.   Subsections A through E of this section shall not apply to fences which
have been completely erected at the time of enactment.
   2.   The provisions of this section shall apply to any fences which replace
a non- conforming fence.
   3.   Subsection F of this section shall apply to all fences within the
Borough regardless of when constructed.
J.   Penalties. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day that the
violation continues.
(Ord. 6-2021, 9/7/2021)
CHAPTER 5
CODE ENFORCEMENT
PART 1
UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
   §
101.   Election to Administer and Enforce Pennsylvania Construction Code Act
   §
102.   Adoption of Uniform Construction Code
   §
103.   Administration and Enforcement
   §
104.   Establishment of Board of Appeals
   §
105.   Savings Clause
   §
106.   Fees
PART 1
UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 101.   ELECTION TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE PENNSYLVANIA CONSTRUCTION CODE ACT.
Portage Borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§
7210.101–7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 1)
§ 102.   ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE.
The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 401-405, as
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the municipal building code of the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 2)
§ 103.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Administration and enforcement of the code within Portage Borough shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Portage Borough
Council from time to time by resolution:
      A.   By the designation of an employee of Portage Borough to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of the Borough.
      B.   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or
third-party agencies to act on behalf of the Borough.
      C.   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this act through an intermunicipal agreement.
      D.   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this act on behalf of Portage Borough.
      E.   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than one- family or two-family dwelling units and utility and
miscellaneous structures.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 3)
§ 104.   ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the Portage Borough
Council in conformity with the requirements of the relevant provisions of the
code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set forth therein. If
at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken jointly with one or
more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be established by joint
action of the participating municipalities.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 4)
§ 105.   SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   1.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by the Portage Borough Council on or before July 1, 1999, and which
equal or exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and
effect until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the code, as amended from time to time.
   2.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the date of this Part and whose requirements are less than the
minimum requirements of the code are hereby amended to conform with the
comparable provisions of the code.
   3.   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of this Borough not
governed by the code shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 5)
§ 106.   FEES.
Fees assessable by the Borough for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this Part and the code shall be established by the
Borough Council by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 4-2004, 6/6/2004, § 6)
CHAPTER 6
CONDUCT
PART 1
CURFEW
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Unlawful Conduct of Minors
   §
104.   Unlawful Conduct of Parents
   §
105.   Unlawful Conduct of Owners or Proprietors
   §
106.   Special Events
   §
107.   Penalties
PART 2
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
   §
201.   Discharge of Firearms Prohibited
   §
202.   Use of Air Rifles, Bow and Arrows or Similar Devices Restricted
   §
203.   Exceptions
   §
204.   Penalties
PART 3
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES
   §
301.   Definitions
   §
302.   Consumption
   §
303.   Possession
   §
304.   Exceptions
   §
305.   Penalty
PART 4
FIREWORKS
   §
401.   Title
   §
402.   Definitions
   §
403.   Use of Consumer Fireworks Prohibited
   §
404.   Removal, Storage and Destruction
   §
405.   Penalty
PART 1
CURFEW
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known and referred to as the "Portage Borough Curfew
Ordinance." (Ord. 301, 3/5/1973, § 1)
§ 102.   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Part, terms employed herein are defined as follows:
   ESTABLISHMENTS - any privately owned place of business carried on for a
profit, or any place of amusement or entertainment or recreation to which the
public is invited.
   MINOR - any person under the age of 18 years.
   OFFICIAL BOROUGH TIME - the prevailing time as determined by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   OPERATOR - any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment; the use of the term
"operator," as applied to associations or partnerships, shall include the
members or partners thereof; and as applied to corporations, shall include the
officials thereof.
   PARENT - includes any natural parent of a minor; any guardian of a minor; or
any adult person over the age of 21 years responsible for the care and custody
of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE - any public street; highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building or vacant lot.
   REMAIN - to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play upon. (Ord. 301, 3/5/1973,
§ 2)
§ 103.   UNLAWFUL CONDUCT OF MINORS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for minors under the age of 18 years to be or
remain in or upon any of the streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds, public buildings or vacant lots in the Borough of Portage at
night, from the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 6:30 a.m. of the following day,
unless such minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person
having the legal custody of such child. (Ord. 4-1989)
   2.   The provisions of subsection (1), above, shall not apply to any minor
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having legal custody of
said minor, or to a minor upon an errand or other legitimate business directed
by or on behalf of such minor's parent, guardian or other adult person having
custody of said minor; nor shall the provisions of subsection (1), above, apply
to any minor who is engaged in gainful and lawful employment during the said
curfew hours.
   3.   Each violation of the provisions of this Section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 301, 3/5/1973, § 3; as amended by Ord. 5-1986 12/8/1986; and by Ord. 4-
1989 6/5/1989)
§ 104.   UNLAWFUL CONDUCT OF PARENTS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person
having legal custody or care of any minor under the age of 18 years to allow or
permit any such minor child, ward or other person under said age of 18 years,
while in such legal custody, to go by, in, or upon any of the streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings or vacant lots in
the Borough of Portage after the time prohibited in §
103(1) of this Part, except as otherwise provided in §
103(2), hereof.
   2.   Each violation of the provisions of this Section shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 301, 3/5/1973, § 4)
§ 105.   UNLAWFUL CONDUCT OF OWNERS OR PROPRIETORS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any operator of any establishment or other
agents or employees knowingly to permit any minor to remain upon the premises
of said establishment from the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 6:30 a.m. of the
following day, unless such minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
adult person having the legal custody of such child. [Ord. 3-1999]
   2.   Each violation of the provisions of this Section shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 301, 3/5/1973, § 5; as amended by Ord. 3-1993, 4/5/
1999)
§ 106.   SPECIAL EVENTS.
Where there are special events, programs or functions, properly organized and
supervised by legitimate organizations that are civic minded, for the purpose
of advancing recreation, character development, religious training and good
citizenship in the young people of Portage Borough, the Portage Borough Police
Department shall grant special consideration in all cases where the sponsoring
organizations have given advance notice of the special event or program, so
that all children, including minors as defined in this Part, may be permitted
to proceed to and from such event, program or function without incident.
(Ord. 301 3/5/1973, § 6)
§ 107.   PENALTIES.
The policemen of the Borough of Portage, upon finding a minor upon the streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings orvacant lots
within the Borough of Portage in violation of §
103 of this Part, shall take the name of such minor and the name and address of
the parent. guardian or adult person having the legal care or custody of such
minor and send such minor home. A second or subsequent violation of this Part,
upon convict ion thereof shall result in a fine not to exceed $600 plus costs.
(Ord. 301, 3/5/1973, § 7; as amended by Ord. 316 3/4/1974 § 7; by Ord. 3-1999,
4/5/1999: and by Ord. 3-2000 2/7/2000)
PART 2
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
§ 201.   DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in §
203 of this Part, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire or discharge
any gun or other firearm within the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 202.   USE OF AIR RIFLES, BOW AND ARROWS OR SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, bow and arrow or similar device, or any
implement that is not a firearm but which impels a projectile a any kind with a
force that can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm or property damage,
at any place within the Borough of Portage, except as provided in §
203 of this Part, and except on a target range which is properly constructed to
trap or stop the projectile as ascertained by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 203.   EXCEPTIONS.
This Part shall not apply to:
      A.   Persons licensed to hunt in this Commonwealth while actually engaged
in hunting where permitted under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      B.   Members of any organization incorporated under laws of this
Commonwealth engaged in target shooting upon the grounds or property belonging
to or under the control of such organization.
      C.   Any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties. (Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 204.   PENALTIES.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 2-2000, 2/7/2000)
PART 3
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 301.   DEFINITIONS.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words or phrases shall be
construed according to the definitions set forth below:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES - any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid
containing more than 1/2 of 1% of alcohol by volume which is fit for beverage
purposes.
   CONTAINER - any bottle, can or other vessel in which alcoholic beverages are
contained.
(Ord. 3-1980, 7/7/1980; as revised by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 302.   CONSUMPTION.
No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any quantity upon any street,
avenue, alley, sidewalk, stairway, thoroughfare, or other public property
within the Borough of Portage, nor shall any person consume any alcoholic
beverage within 5 feet of any public way or thoroughfare while on a private
stairway, doorway or other private property open to public view without the
express or implied permission of the owner, his agent or other party in lawful
possession thereof.
(Ord. 3-1980, 7/7/1980; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 303.   POSSESSION.
No person shall possess any container of aldoholic beverage whether wrapped or
unwrapped which has been opened or on which the seal has been broken in any
manner on any public street, avenue, alley, thoroughfare or other public
property within the Borough of Portage, nor shall any person possess any
container of alcoholic beverage within 5 feet of any public way or thoroughfare
while on a private stairway, doorway or other private property open to public
view without the express or implied permission of the owner, his agent or other
person in lawful possession thereof.
(Ord. 3-1980, 7/7/1980; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 304.   EXCEPTIONS.
Provided, however, that the provisions of §
302 and §
303, above, shall not apply to interior portions of any private dwelling,
habitat or building, nor to the consumption or possession by persons in the
areas herein designated of any duly prescribed and dispensed medication having
alcoholic content as set forth in §
301, hereof; and provided, further that the provisions of said §
302 and §
303, above, shall not apply to premises duly licensed by the Pennsylvania
Liquor Control Board and to persons then and there patrons of said licensee.
(Ord. 3-1980, 7/7/1980; as revised by Ord. 3-1999. 4/5/1999)
§ 305.   PENALTY.
Whosoever violates any of the provisions of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-1980, 7/7/1980; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 4
FIREWORKS
§ 401.   TITLE.
This Part shall be referred to as the Borough of Portage Fireworks Ordinance.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/6/2022)
§ 402.   DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases when used in this Part shall have the meaning
given to them in this section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   APA 87-1 - the American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1: Standard for
construction and approval for transportation of fireworks, novelties and
theatrical pyrotechnics, 2001 Edition.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS -
      A.   The term includes any combustible or explosive composition or any
substance or combination of substances which is intended to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, is suitable for use by the public, complies with
the construction, performance, composition and labeling requirements
promulgated by the Consumer Products Safety Commission in 16 CFR (relating to
commercial practices), or "consumer fireworks" as defined in APA 87-1.
      B.   The term does not include devices such as "ground and hand-held
sparkling devices", "novelties" or "toy caps" in APA 87-1, the sale, possession
and use of which shall be permitted at all times throughout the Borough.
   VEHICLE - every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices used exclusively upon
rails or tracks. The term does not include a self-propelled wheelchair or an
electrical mobility device operated and designed for the exclusive use of a
person with a mobility-related disability.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/6/2022)
§ 403.   USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
The use of consumer fireworks as that term is herein defined is prohibited
within the Borough of Portage. This prohibition extends not only to the
"setting off of consumer fireworks within the boundaries of the Borough, but
also to consumer fireworks" set off outside of the boundaries of the Borough
and which sparks, flares, flames, spent cartridges or other remnants, land
within or cross the Portage Borough boundary lines.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/6/2022)
§ 404.   REMOVAL, STORAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
The Borough Police shall take, remove or cause to be removed at the expense of
the owner all stocks of consumer fireworks used in violation of this Part. The
owner shall also be responsible for the storage and, if deemed necessary, the
destruction of these fireworks.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/6/2022)
§ 405.   PENALTY.
A person using consumer fireworks in violation of the provisions of this Part
for the first offense commits a summary offense and, upon conviction, shall, in
addition to any other penalty authorized by law, be punishable by a fine of not
more than $500. A subsequent offense under this Part committed within three
years of a prior conviction under this Part shall constitute a summary offense
and, upon conviction, shall, in addition to any other penalty authorized by
law, be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/6/2022)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE PROTECTION
PART 1
THIRD PARTY BILLING
   §
101.   Statement of Intent
   §
102.   Fee Schedule
   §
103.   Non-Payment of Services
   §
104.   Availability of Fees
   §
105.   Repeals
   §
106.   Enforcement
   §
107.   Provisions
PART 1
THIRD PARTY BILLING
§ 101.   STATEMENT OF INTENT
The Borough of Portage hereby authorizes the Portage Volunteer Fire Company to
collect from persons who use their services as a result of a call to an
automobile accident, a sum sufficient to reimburse the said Fire Company in
full for the use of any equipment by the said volunteer agency.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 1)
§ 102.   FEE SCHEDULE AND EMERGENCY AUTOMOBILE EQUIPMENT LIST
The Fire Company shall have the obligation to do the billing for any services
rendered and the fees shall be set by its Board of Trustees of the said Fire
Company and submitted to the Portage Borough Council for approval by
resolution. (Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 2)
§ 103.   NON-PAYMENT OF SERVICES
In the event of non payment of services by any party, the Borough authorizes
and/or assigns to the Portage Volunteer Fire Company, for the sole purpose of
enforcing this ordinance, the right to pursue legal remedies, including, but
not limited to, collection actions in a Court of Law or Equity. Any recovery of
money shall be paid over to the Fire Company which rendered the services.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 3)
§ 104.   AVAILABILITY OF FEES
All emergency automobile accident equipment of the Fire Company shall be made
available to the requesting party and the assessments of fees for use thereof
shall be made and established by the Fire Company and submitted to the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 4)
§ 105.   REPEALS
The municipality reserves the right to amend, repeal, and/or revoke this
ordinance at any time in the future.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 5)
§ 106.   ENFORCEMENT
If any section, portion or provision of this Part is judicially held to be
illegal, unconstitutional or unenforceable, such decision shall not effect the
remainder hereof. It is hereby declared to be the intent and purpose of this
Borough Council of the Borough of Portage that this Ordinance would have been
adopted if any such illegal, unconstitutional or unenforceable provision (s)
had not been included herein.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 6)
§ 107.   PROVISIONS
All Ordinances or parts of the Ordinances conflicting with the provisions of
this Part, be and the same are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1-2003, 1/6/2003, § 7)
   1.   VEHICLES
      A.   Engine 83-1   $100.00 per hour
      B.   Engine 83-2   $100.00 per hour
      C.   Rescue 83-3   $100.00 per hour
      D.   Utility Truck 83-4   $100.00 per hour
      E.   Brush Truck 83-5   $100.00 per hour
   2.   EQUIPMENT
      A.   Foam   $ 25.00 per gallon
      B.   Jaws of Life   $100.00 per use
      C.   Siccors   $100.00 per use
      D.   Rams   $100.00 per use
      E.   Air Bags   $100.00 per use
      F.   Sawzall   $ 25.00 per use
      G.   Air Chisel   $ 25.00 per use
      H.   Oil Dry   $ 15.00 per bucket
      I.   Oil Absorbant Socks   $ 10.00 per sock
      J.   Oil Absorbant Pad   $ 10.00 per pad
      K.   Road Flares   $ 5.00 per flare
      L.   Lighting   $ 75.00 per use
CHAPTER 8
FLOODPLAINS
PART 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
   §
101.   Statutory Authorization
PART 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   §
201.   General Provisions; Intent
   §
202.   Applicability
   §
203.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
   §
204.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
PART 3
ADMINISTRATION
   §
301.   Designation of the Floodplain Adminstrator
   §
302.   Building Permits Required
   §
303.   Issuance of Building Permit
   §
304.   Application Procedures and Requirements
   §
305.   Review by County Conservation District
   §
306.   Review of Application by Others
   §
307.   Changes
   §
308.   Placards
   §
309.   Start of Construction
   §
310.   Inspection and Revocation
   §
311.   Fees
   §
312.   Enforcement
   §
313.   Appeals
PART 4
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
   §
401.   Identification of Floodplain Areas
   §
402.   Determination of Floodplain Areas/Districts
   §
403.   Changes in Identification of Area
   §
404.   Boundary Disputes
PART 5
GENERAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
   §
501.   General Technical Requirements
   §
502.   Design and Construction Standards
   §
503.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life
   §
504.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
   §
505.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions
   §
506.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles
PART 6
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
   §
601.   Activities Requiring Special Permits; General
   §
602.   Special Permit Application Requirements
   §
603.   Application Review Procedures
   §
604.   Special Technical Requirements
PART 7
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
   §
701.   Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
PART 8
VARIANCES
   §
801.   Variances
PART 9
DEFINITIONS
   §
901.   Definitions; General
   §
902.   Specific Definitions
PART 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
§ 101.   STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of the
Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act of 1978, delegated the responsibility
to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management regulations to
promote public health, safety, and the general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the Council of Portage Borough does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 101)
PART 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 201.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; INTENT.
The intent of this Chapter is to:
      A.   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community.
      B.   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
      C.   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage.
      D.   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 201)
§ 202.   APPLICABILITY.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the Borough unless a building permit has been
obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
   2.   Building permits shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 202)
§ 203.   ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
This Chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in effect
in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions shall
remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are more
restrictive.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 203)
§ 204.   WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   1.   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Part is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on acceptable
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man- made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This Chapter does not imply that areas
outside any identified floodplain area, or that land uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   2.   This Chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this Chapter or any administra tive decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 204)
PART 3
ADMINISTRATION
§ 301.   DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
The Building Permit Officer within the Borough of Portage is hereby appointed
to administer and enforce this Chapter and is referred to herein as the
“Floodplain Administrator.”
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 300)
§ 302.   BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
Building permits shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the Borough.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 301)
§ 303.   ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   1.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a building permit only after
it has been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in
conformance with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
   2.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application for permit to determine if all other
necessary government permits, such as those required by State and Federal laws
have been obtained, such as those required by Act 537, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act; the Dam Safety and Encroachments Act; the U.S. Clean Water Act,
§ 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1334; and the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act. No permit
shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   3.   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made to
any water course until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the Borough, and until all required permits
or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection, Bureau of Dams and Waterway Management. In addition, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified by the Borough prior to any alteration
or relocation of any watercourse.
   4.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not reduce or
impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 302)
§ 304.   APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Application for such a building permit shall be made in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the Borough. Such application
shall contain the following:
      A.    Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.    Site location.
      E.   Listing of other permits required.
      F.    Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost.
      G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for building
permits shall also provide the following specific information:
      A.   A plan of the entire site, drawn at a scale of 1 inch being equal to
100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale and date.
         (2)   A location map showing the vicinity in which the proposed
activity or develop ment is to be located within the Borough.
         (3)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum of 1988
showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of 2 feet.
         (4)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet.
         (5)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways with information concerning widths, pavement types and construction
and elevations.
         (6)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, and any other
natural or man-made features affecting or affected by the proposed activity or
development.
         (7)   The location of the identified floodplain area boundary line,
roadway line if available, information and spot elevations concerning the 100-
year flood elevations and information concerning the flow of water including
direction and velocities.
         (8)   A general plan of the entire site accurately showing the
location of all proposed buildings, structures and any other improvements,
including the location of any existing or proposed subdivision and land
development in order to assure that:
            (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
            (b)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
            (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
            (d)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
            (e)   Building materials are flood-resistant.
            (f)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been
used.
            (g)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
      B.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale, showing the following:
         (1)   Detailed architectural or engineering drawings including
building size, floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate.
         (2)   The proposed lowest floor elevations of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
         (3)   Complete information concerning elevation of the base flood,
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors
associated with a 100-year flood.
         (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed flood-proofing
measures and corresponding elevations.
         (5)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives and
other access ways and parking areas showing all rights-of-ways and pavement
widths.
         (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
access ways including existing and proposed grades.
         (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
         (8)   Soil types.
      C.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to withstand the 100-year flood elevations; pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other hydrostatic, hydrodynamic and buoyancy
factors associated with the 100- year flood. Such statement shall include
description of the type and extent of floodproofing measures which have been
incorporated into the design of the structure and/or the development.
         (2)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
502(G) and §
503, “Development Which May Endanger Human Life,” including:
            (a)   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §
502(G) and §
503, which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained on
site.
            (b)   For any proposed structure regulated under §
503, a description of the safeguards incorporated into the design of the
structure to prevent leaks or spills of the above-mentioned materials or
substances during a 100-year flood.
         (3)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development.”
         (4)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
         (5)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within AE Area/District, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
develop ment, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than 1
foot at any point.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 303)
§ 305.   REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted to the County Conservation District for review and comment
prior to the issuance of a building permit. The recommendations of the
Conservation District shall be considered by the Floodplain Administrator for
possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 304)
§ 306.   REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Borough Engineer, etc.) for
review and comment.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 305)
§ 307.   CHANGES.
After the issuance of a building permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for
any such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 306)
§ 308.   PLACARDS.
In addition to the building permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 307)
§ 309.   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   1.   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within 180
days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months after
the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The actual
start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation. 
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   2.   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted
by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 308)
§ 310.   INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
   1.   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable Borough laws and ordinances. He shall make
as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are necessary.
   2.   In the discharge of his duties, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or development in the
identified flood-prone area, upon presentation of proper credentials, at any
reasonable hour, to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   3.   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the building permit and report such
fact to the Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   4.   A record of all such inspections and violations of this Chapter shall
be maintained.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 309)
§ 311.   FEES.
Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the Borough, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator, at rates to be established from
time to time by resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 310)
§ 312.   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Notices. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
Borough representa tive determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe
that there has been a violation of any provisions of this Chapter, or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall (A)
be in writing; (B) include a statement of the reasons for its issuance; (C)
allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the performance
of any act it required; (D) be served upon the property owner or his agent as
the case may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be
deemed to have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy
thereof has been served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required by the laws of this State; (E) contain an outline of remedial action
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this Chapter or who fails or refuses to comply
with any notice, order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any
other authorized employee of the municipality shall, upon conviction thereof,
be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000 plus costs and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30
days. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby reserved
including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this Chapter. The
imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or noncompliance with,
this Chapter shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance or permit it to
continue and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations and noncompliance’s within a reasonable time. Any development
initiated or any area structure or building constructed, recon structed,
enlarged, altered or relocated, in noncompliance with this Chapter may be
declared by the Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 311)
§ 313.   APPEALS.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by an action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator, refusing to grant a modification to the provisions of this
Chapter covering the development of land or the manner of construction or
materials to be used in the erection, alteration, modification, etc., of a
building or structure may appeal to the Council. Such appeal must be filed, in
writing, within 30 days after the decision or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Council shall set a time and place,
within not less than 10 nor more than 30 days, for the purpose of considering
the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will be considered
shall be given to all parties.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Council may seek relief
there from by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this Commonwealth,
including the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 312)
PART 4
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 401.   IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
The identified floodplain area shall be any areas of the Borough of Portage,
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated June 19,
2012, and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), or the most
recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of the
Flood Insurance Study. The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent
revisions and amendments are hereby adopted by the Borough of Portage and
declared to be a part of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 401)
§ 402.   DETERMINATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS/DISTRICTS.
   1.   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following two
specific areas/districts.
      A.   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided in the FIS.
      B.   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepare by FEMA and for which no 100-year flood
elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevations and floodway
information from other Federal, State or other acceptable source shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the
elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the boundary
of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction site.
   2.   In lieu of the above, the Borough may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted to sufficient detail
to allow a thorough technical review by the Borough.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 402)
§ 403.   CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Council where
studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents the
need for such revision. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later
than 6 months after the date such information becomes available, a community
shall notify the FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or scientific
data.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 403)
§ 404.   BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
Should a dispute concerning arty identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Borough Planning Commission and any
party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the Council. The burden of proof
shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 404)
PART 5
GENERAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 501.   GENERAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   In the identified floodplain area, the development and/or use of any
land shall be permitted provided that the development and/or use adheres to the
restrictions and requirements of this and all other applicable codes and
ordinances in force in the Borough.
   2.   Within any identified floodplain area, no new construction or
development shall be located within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a permit is obtained from the Department
of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Dams and Waterway Management.
   3.   Within any identified floodplain area, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of any new or substantially improved residential
structure shall be 1½ feet or more above the 100-year flood elevation.
   4.   Within any identified floodplain area, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of any new or substantially improved nonresidential
structure shall be 1½ feet or more above the 100-year flood elevation or be
floodproofed up to that height. Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof,
having a lowest floor (including basement) which is not elevated to at least 1½
feet above the 100-year flood elevation shall be floodproofed in a completely
or essentially dry manner in accordance with the W1 or W2 space classification
standards contained in the publication entitled “Flood-Proofing Regulations”
published by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (June 1972, as amended March
1992), or with some other equivalent standard. All plans and specifications for
such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a statement certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect which states that the proposed
design and methods of construction are in conformance with the above referenced
standards.
   5.   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements) which
will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term “fully
enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
For all new construction and substantial improvements in any identified
flooplain area, fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exist of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade. Openings may be equipment with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   6.   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall be
permitted that would cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation.
   7.   Within any AE Area/District, no new construction or development shall
be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than 1 foot at any
point.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 501)
§ 502.   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed to be undertaken within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   Fill.   If fill is used; it shall:
         (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from
all points.
         (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted.
         (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and
resistance to erosion, scouring or settling.
         (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal, unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator.
         (5)   To be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
      B.   Drainage Facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall insure proper drainage away from buildings. The system shall also be
designed to prevent the discharge of excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
      C.   Sanitary Sewer Facilities. All new or replacement sanitary sewer
facilities and private package sewage treatment plants (including all pumping
stations and collector systems) shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems
into the flood waters. In addition, they should be located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage and impairment.
No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any identified
floodplain area except in strict compliance with all State and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      D.   Water Facilities. All new or replacement water facilities shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system,
and be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damages.
      E.   Streets. The finished elevation of proposed new streets shall be no
more than 1 foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
      F.   Utilities. All utilities such as gas lines, electrical and telephone
systems being placed in an identified floodplain area should be located,
elevated (where possible) and constructed to minimize the chance of impairment
during a flood.
      G.   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in
time of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
503, “Develop ment Which May Endanger Human Life,” shall be stored at or above
the regulatory flood elevation and/or floodproofed to the maximum extent
possible.
      H.   Placement of Buildings and Structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
      I.   Anchoring.
         (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in
accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement.
         (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
      J.   Floors, Walls and Ceilings.
         (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring,
perpendicular to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the
building.
         (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
         (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be designed and constructed of materials that are water-resistant and
will withstand inundation.
         (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other water-resistant material.
      K.   Paints and Adhesives.
         (1)   Paints or other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
         (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be of a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
         (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim cabinets, etc.) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing
material.
      L.   Electrical Systems and Components.
         (1)   Electrical water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and
ventilating systems and other electrical equipment or apparatus shall not be
located below the regulatory flood elevation.
         (2)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least 3 feet above
the 100-year flood elevation.
         (3)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall
be dropped from above.
      M.   Plumbing.
         (1)   Water heaters, furnaces and other mechanical equipment or
apparatus shall not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
         (2)   No part or any onsite sewage disposal system shall be located
within any identified floodplain area.
         (3)   Water supply systems and sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the system into flood waters.
         (4)   All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed to prevent the
infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from the system
into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the drainage of
these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 502)
§ 503.   DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, and the
regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development as
required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which will be
used for the production or storage of any of the following materials or
substances of which will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of
a supply (more than 550 gallons or other comparable volume or any amount of
radioactive substances) of any of the following materials or substances on the
premises, shall be subject to the provisions of this Section, in addition to
all other applicable provisions:
      A.   Acetone.
      B.   Ammonia.
      C.   Benzene.
      D.   Calcium carbide.
      E.   Carbon disulfide.
      F.   Celluloid.
      G.   Chlorine.
      H.   Hydrochloric acid.
      I.   Hydrocyanic acid.
      J.   Magnesium.
      K.   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen.
      L.   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, etc.).
      M.   Phosphorus.
      N.   Potassium.
      O.   Sodium.
      P.   Sulphur and sulphur products.
      Q.   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides).
      R.   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances not otherwise
regulated.
   2.   Within any identified floodplain area, any new or substantially
improved structure of the kind described in subsection (1), above, shall be
prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of
any watercourse.
   3.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved structure of the kind described in subsection (1),
above, shall be:
      A.   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up to
at least 1½ feet above the 100-year flood elevation.
      B.   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity during
the course of a 100-year flood.
Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
“FloodProofing Regulations.” (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972, as
amended March 1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 503)
§ 504.   SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all manufactured homes
and additions thereto shall be:
      A.   Placed on a permanent foundation.
      B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is 1½
feet or more above the elevation of the 100-year flood.
      C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
      D.   Within any identified floodway area, all manufactured homes and any
additions thereto shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 504)
§ 505.   SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50 lots
or at least 5 acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood elevations and
floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional
engineer in a format required by FEMA for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
or Letter of Map Revision. Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be
the responsibil ity of the applicant.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 505)
§ 506.   SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
      A.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days.
      B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      C.   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
504.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 506)
PART 6
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 601.   ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS; GENERAL.
In accordance with the Department of Community and Economic Development’s
administra tive regulations implementing the Pennsylvania Flood Plain
Management Act, (Act 1978-166), the following obstructions and activities are
prohibited if located entirely or partially within an identified floodplain
area unless a special permit is issued:
      A.   Hospitals (public cr private).
      B.   Nursing home (public or private).
      C.   Jails or prisons.
      D.   New manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions, and
substantial improvements to such existing parks and development.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 601)
§ 602.   SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
Application for a special permit shall consist of at least five copies of the
following items:
      A.   A written request which includes the information specified in §
304, pertaining to building permit application procedures.
      B.   The following documentation:
         (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing and single parcel, owned by
the applicant or the client he represents.
         (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect
or landscape architect and the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to protect against damage from the 100-year flood.
         (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might occur from the development during the course of a 100-year flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life.
         (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
landscape architect which contains a complete and accurate description of the
effects the proposed development will have on 100-year flood elevations and
flows.
         (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the 100-year flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on 100-year flood
elevations and flows.
         (6)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a 100-year flood.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 602)
§ 603.   APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the Borough the
following procedures shall apply, in addition to those of Part 3:
      A.   Within 3 working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommenda tions. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Engineer for review
and comment.
      B.   If an application is received that is incomplete, the Borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respects the application is
deficient.
      C.   If the Borough decides to disapprove art application, it shall
notify the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
      D.   If the Borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within 5 working days after the date of approval.
      E.   Before issuing the special permit, the Borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the Borough.
      F.   If the Borough does not receive any communication from the
Department of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review
period, it may issue a special permit to the applicant.
      G.   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should
decide to disapprove an application, it shall notify the Borough and the
applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval and the Borough shall
not issue the special permit.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 603)
§ 604.   SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   In addition to the requirements of Part 5 of this Chapter, the
following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed development
requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of the
following requirements and those in Part 5 of this Chapter, or in any other
code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
   2.   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      A.   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and con structed so that:
         (1)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the 100-year
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the 100-year flood elevation.
         (2)   The first floor elevation will be at least 1½ feet above the
100-year flood elevation.
         (3)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the 100-
year flood.
      B.   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows or debris endangering life and property.
All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted in sufficient detail
to allow a thorough technical review by the Borough and the Department of
Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 604)
PART 7
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 701.   EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   1.   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made
to an existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation
of the 100-year flood.
      B.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any AE area that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the 100-year flood elevation more than 1 foot
at any point.
   2.   Structures existing in any identified floodplain area prior to the
enactment of this Chapter, but which are not in compliance with these
provisions, may continue to remain, provided that any modification, alteration,
reconstruction or improvement of any kind to an existing structure, to an
extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value, shall be undertaken only
in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 701)
PART 8
VARIANCES
§ 801.   VARIANCES.
   1.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the 100-year
flood elevation.
   2.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any AE area that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the 100-year flood elevation more than 1 foot
at any point.
   3.   If compliance with any of the requirements of this Chapter would result
in an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner,
the Borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
   4.   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Borough in accordance
with the procedures contained in §
313, and the following:
      A.   Except for a possible modification of the freeboard requirements
involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the other requirements
pertaining specifically to development regulated by special permit (Part 6) or
to development which may endanger human life (§
503).
      B.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      C.   In granting any variance, the Borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
Chapter.
      D.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance.
         (2)   Such variances may increase the risks of life and property.
      E.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Borough shall consider,
at a minimum, the following:
         (1)   That there is good and sufficient cause.
         (2)   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
         (3)   That the granting of the variance will (a) neither result in an
unacceptable or prohibited increase in flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, or extraordinary public expense; (b) nor create nuisances, cause
fraud on, or victimize the public or conflict with any other applicable State
or local ordinances and regulations.
      F.   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the Borough. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   5.   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 801)
PART 9
DEFINITIONS
§ 901.   DEFINITIONS; GENERAL.
Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 901)
§ 902.   SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE–a use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD–a flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year (also called the “100-year flood”).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE)–the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT–any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING–a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   CONSTRUCTION–the construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of manufactured homes.
   DEVELOPMENT–any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets, and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION–the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD–a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM)–the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS)–the official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of
the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA–a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING–any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY–the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE–the highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES–any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (1)   By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior.
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR–the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement are
not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirements of this Chapter.
   MINOR REPAIR–the replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   MANUFACTURED HOME–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for
permanent occupancy, office or place of assembly contained in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, which arrives at a site complete and
ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations and constructed so that it may be used with or without a permanent
foundation. The term includes park trailers, travel trailers and other similar
vehicles which are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK–a parcel of land under single ownership which has
been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes
for nontransient use.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION–structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after June 19, 2012, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. Any construction started after March 5, 1990, and before June 19,
2012, is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued,
provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION–any wall, dam, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile abutment,
projection, excavation channel, rectification, culvert, building, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or floodprone area, which may impede, retard or
change the direction of the flow of water either in itself or by catching or
collection debris carried by such water or is placed where the flow of water
might carry the same downstream to the damage of life and property.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD–a flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once
every 100-years (i.e., that has 1% chance of occurring each year, although the
flood may occur in any year).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE–a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty
truck.
      D.   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION–the 100-year flood elevation plus a freeboard
safety factor of 1½ feet.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA)–an area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or, AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT–a special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, fails, and new manufactured home parks and substantial improvements to
such existing parks, when such development is located in all, or a designated
portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION–includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE–a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION–the division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer of ownership, or building, or lot development;
provided, however, that the division of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than 10 acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE–damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT–any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement, as defined in this Chapter, must comply
with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC)–the statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, The Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the State floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION–the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2-2012, 4/2/2012, § 902)
CHAPTER 9
GRADING AND EXCAVATING
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 10
HEALTH AND SAFETY
PART 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Nuisances Prohibited
   §
103.   Nuisances Defined
   §
104.   Exclusions
   §
105.   Enforcement
   §
106.   Penalties
   §
107.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive
PART 2
WEED CONTROL
   §
201.   Noxious Weeds Prohibited
   §
202.   Removal by Borough; Collection of Costs
   §
203.   Penalties
PART 3
ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH LAWS
   §
301.   Administration of Health Laws
   §
302.   Authorization of Officers
PART 4
JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS
   §
401.   Findings
   §
402.   Short Title
   §
403.   Definitions
   §
404.   Establishment of Junkyards or Salvage Yards Prohibited
   §
405.   Junked Vehicles on Private Property Prohibited
   §
406.   License
   §
407.   Inspections
   §
408.   Regulations
   §
409.   Federal or Commonwealth Regulations
   §
410.   Severability
   §
411.   Penalties
PART 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known as the "Portage Borough Public Nuisance Ordinance."
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 1)
§ 102.   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, carry on, cause or allow the
existence or maintenance of a public nuisance within the limits of the Borough
of Portage, Cambria County Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 2)
§ 103.   NUISANCES DEFINED.
Public nuisances shall be defined as including, but not limited to, the
following activities when they adversely affect the health, safety, morals or
general welfare of the Borough:
      A.   The accumulation of or permitting the accumulation of trash,
garbage, refuse or rubbish on private or public property
      B.   The storage, accumulation or permitting the storage or accumulation
of abandoned, wrecked or junked automobiles, scrap metal or other scrap
materials on private or public property (except in places where a junkyard
business is regularly conducted within the Borough limits and in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the Borough ordinances).
      C.   The carrying on of any offensive manufacturer or business, or any
other use or activity upon property that by raising noxious odors or fumes,
excessive elimination, excessive noise, vibration or dust or air pollution
unreasonably interferes with the reasonable use, comfort and enjoyment of
property in the vicinity; or endangers the health or safety of the occupants of
property in the vicinity.
      D.   The existence of any dangerous structure or improvement on public or
private grounds, which constitutes it a fire hazard, or endangers surrounding
buildings, or shelters rats or other vermin, or constitutes an attraction to
children playing thereabout, and a hazard to their safety or which is unsafe
for human occupancy.
      E.   The burning of any paper, rags, automobiles, machines or other waste
materials, which results in the omission of excessive noxious odors or which
cause fire hazards or which pollutes the air.
      F.   The storage of gasoline, kerosene or other petroleum products above
ground or underground, without complying with the regulations thereto adopted
by the Pennsylvania State Police.
      G.   The maintenance or existence of any unfenced or inadequately fenced
excavation which constitutes a hazard to children or other persons in the
vicinity, and by failure to adequately light said excavation as a safeguard for
the protection of other persons in the vicinity.
      H.   The use of private property in such manner as to unreasonably
interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of property by occupants of property in
the vicinity by creating unsightly conditions and appearances in said premises.
      I.   The maintenance or existence of any other condition on private or
public property which constitutes a fire hazard or endangers surrounding
buildings, or results in the sheltering of rats or other vermin, or constitutes
an attraction to children and a hazard to their safety. or otherwise endangers
the health and safety of occupants of property in the vicinity, the failure to
reasonably and promptly remove snow, or other kind of debris or matter from
sidewalks abutting on private property.
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 3)
§ 104.   EXCLUSIONS.
Public nuisances shall not include the following:
      A.   The temporary storage of any item preparatory to its removal from
the premises. Storage in excess of 30 days is presumed to be permanent storage.
[Ord. 3-1999]
      B.   The carrying on of any manufacture or business in a manner permitted
under any license or permit issued by the Borough or in any other proper and
lawful manner.
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 4; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 105.   ENFORCEMENT.
In the event any person shall maintain a public nuisance, as heretofore
defined, the Borough of Portage, upon determining that such public nuisance
exists or is being maintained, at its option, may singularly or severally
proceed as follows: [Ord. 3-1999]
      A.   Commence a summary proceeding to collect a penalty as provided under
§
106, for the violation of this Part.
      B.   Order the termination of the public nuisance or the removal or
abatement of the dangerous structure, improvement or excavation by causing
written notice to be sewed personally or by registered or certified mail upon
the owner and any occupant of said premises, or upon any agent of the owner or
if the identify or whereabouts of the owner be unknown, by posting the notice
conspicuously upon the offending premises. The notice shall specify the
condition complained of and shall require the owner to commence corrective
action as therein set forth within 10 days and to complete such corrective
action fully within a reasonable time thereafter. if appropriate, the Borough
of Portage may require the corrective action to be fully completed within the
10 day notice period. [Ord, 3-1999]
      C.   Should any person cause or permit the continuation of a public
nuisance without the commencement of corrective action within 10 days from the
date of the receipt of the notice specified in (B), hereof, or if such person
shall fail to proceed to complete the corrective action within the time
specified in the notice, the Borough of Portage may cause the removal,
correction or abatement of the public nuisance by such means as appear
necessary to the Borough of Portage. The Borough shall, in such event, where
necessary, have the right and power to enter into the offending premises to
accomplish the foregoing. [Ord. 3-1999]
      D.   In the event the Borough shall have expended monies to remove,
correct or abate any public nuisance under the terms of this Part, it may
recover the costs thereof, together with a penalty of 10% of such costs and an
attorney's fee of 5% by municipal claim proceedings under the Act of May 16,
1923, P.L. 207, as amended; or by such other remedies as may be provided by
law, at the election of the Borough.
      E.   In lieu of removal, correction or abatement of any public nuisance
by the Borough, the Borough may, whenever the Borough of Portage deems it
appropriate, institute proceedings in the courts of equity to compel the
removal, correction or abatement of such condition, and to seek such other
relief as the court is empowered to afford. [Ord. 3-1999]
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 5; as amended by Ord. 2-1978, 4/3/1978; and by Ord. 3-
1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 106.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate arty provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $600
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 6; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 107.   REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE.
The remedies herein provided for the enforcement of the provisions of this
Part, or of any remedy afforded by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive
and may be empowered simultaneously or consecutively, at the direction of the
Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 306, 5/7/1973, § 7)
PART 2
WEED CONTROL
§ 201.   NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding 10 inches anywhere in the Borough; any such plants or weeds exceeding
such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 265, 1/3/1967, § 1; as amended by Ord. 4-2011, 7/18/2011, § 1)
§ 202.   REMOVAL BY BOROUGH; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
All weeds or other vegetation permitted to grow or remain contrary to the
provisions of this Part shall be cut and removed under the direction of the
Street Commissioner and the cost thereof, together with the penalties provided
by law, shall be collected by lien or by action in assumpsit or any other such
manner as shall be provided by law.
(Ord. 265, 1/3/1967, § 2)
§ 203.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, he sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said line and costs, to imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 265, 1/3/1967, § 3; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; and by Ord. 4-
2000, 2/7/2000)
PART 3
ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH LAWS
§ 301.   ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH LAWS.
The Department of Health of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania be and it is by
this Part requested, under the provisions of the Administrative Code of 1929,
Article 21, § 2102, to take over the administration of the health laws within
the Borough of Portage, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, at the expense of the
Department of Health.
(Res. 5, 2/1/1960, § 1)
§ 302.   AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICERS.
The proper officers of the Borough be and they are hereby authorized and
directed to send a copy of this Part to the Department of Health for the
purpose of making known to said department the request herein incorporated.
(Res. 5, 2/1/1960, § 2)
PART 4
JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS
§ 401.   FINDINGS.
The Council of the Borough of Portage finds that it is in the public interest
and for the public health, safety and welfare to regulate the establishment and
maintenance of junkyards, salvage yards and automotive dismantlers and
recyclers within Portage Borough.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 1)
§ 402.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be referred to as the "Junkyard and Salvage Yard Ordinance."
(Ord. 8-2000 9/5/2000, § 2)
§ 403.   DEFINITIONS.
   AUTOMOTIVE DISMANTLER AND RECYCLER - any establishment or place of business
which is maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling
wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled vehicles or vehicle parts or both.
   JUNK-scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris, waste, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
material, including wrecked, scrapped, ruined, dismantled or junked vehicles or
parts thereof.
   JUNK VEHICLE - for purpose of this Part, a vehicle shall be considered junk
when it displays the following characteristics:
      A   The vehicle is physically inoperable.
      B.   The vehicle does not display a valid registration plate.
      C.   The vehicle does not display a valid certificate of inspection and
displays one or more of the following dangerous/unhealthy conditions:
         (1)   Broken windshield, mirrors or other glass. with sharp edges.
         (2)   One or more flat or open tires or tubes which could permit
vermin harborage.
         (3)   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk or other body parts which
could permit animal harborage.
         (4)   Any body parts with sharp edges including holes resulting from
rust.
         (5)   Upholstery which is torn or open which could permit animal and/
or vermin harborage.
         (6)   Broken headlamps or tail lamps with sharp edges.
         (7)   Protruding sharp objects from t he chassis.
         (8)   Leaking or damaged oil tray or gas tank which could cause fire
or explosion.
         (9)   Exposed battery containing acid.
         (10)   Broken grill with protruding edges.
         (11)   Such other defects which could threaten the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Borough of Portage.
   JUNKYARD - any outdoor establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, and
the term shall include garbage dumps. sanitary fills and automotive dismantlers
and recyclers.
   SALVAGE YARD - any outdoor establishment or place of business engaged in
acquiring and dismantling used, wrecked, damaged, abandoned orsalvage vehicles
for the purpose of selling the usable parts and selling the remaining hulk
materials for recycling or processing.
   VEHICLE - every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 3)
§ 404.   ESTABLISHMENT OF JUNKYARDS OR SALVAGE YARDS PROHIBITED.
   1.   The Council of the Borough of Portage hereby declares junkyards and
salvage yards to be an abatable public nuisance and prohibits the establishment
and maintenance of junkyards and salvage yards within the Borough limits.
   2.   This Section shall not apply to any junkyard or salvage business
currently in operation within the Borough at the time of the enactment or this
Part; however, the existing junkyards and salvage yards shall be subject to the
regulatory provisions contained herein in §
408.
   3.   This exemption for established junkyard and salvage businesses shall
not apply to private property owners who, by the condition of their property,
are presently in violation of any existing Borough ordinance.
(Ord. 8-2000 9/5/2000,§ 1)
§ 405.   JUNKED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
Any property owner or lease who allows any junked vehicle(s) as defined by §
403 to remain on the property shall be deemed to be operating a junkyard and
same shall be considered an abatable public nuisance pursuant to §
404 hereof.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 5)
§ 406.   LICENSE.
   1.   No person or other business entity shall continue to operate a junkyard
or salvage yard in the Borough of Portage without having obtained a license
therefor from the Council. Such license shall state the name of the person or
entity to whom the license is issued, the location of the entire junkyard or
salvage yard premises and shall be posted conspicuously upon the premises.
   2.   The license shall be issued for a term of 1 year beginning January 1
and ending December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed annually on or
before the first day of January of each year.
   3.   The annual fee for the license required by this Section shall be $100.
   4.   This Section shall become effective January 1, 2001. (Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/
2000, § 6)
§ 407.   INSPECTIONS.
Every junkyard and salvage yard licensed within the Borough shall be subject to
inspection during reasonable hours of the day by any member of the Council or
duly authorized agent thereof, who shall be and hereby is authorized to make
regular inspections of the licensed premises for the purpose of determining
whether said licensee has maintained and operated the premises in full
compliance with the provisions of this Pan and such further regulations as may
hereafter be ordained by the Borough.
(Ord. 8-2000 9/5/2000, § 7)
§ 408.   REGULATIONS.
Every person or entity licensed pursuant to this Part shall constantly maintain
the licensed premises in accordance with the regulations imposed by the
Council, specifically:
      A.   No junk shall be stored or accumulated nor shall any structure he
erected within 25 feet of the side and rear lines of the licensed premises nor
within 75 feet of any existing dwelling house erected upon premises adjacent to
the licensed premises. Nor shall any junk he stored or accumulated or any
structure be erected that is used in connection with said junkyard or salvage
yard within 40 feet of that line of the licensed premises abutting a public
street or highway within the Borough of Portage. Nothing contained in this
subsection shall apply to existing structures pertaining to and being used in
connection with junkyards or salvage yards presently established and operating.
      B.   The licensed premises must be enclosed by a fence or wall not. less
than 6 feet in height. If the licensee shall elect to comply with this
subsection via the installation of a chain-link or other type of fencing that
is otherwise transparent, then said licensee shall also be required to install
and maintain evergreen "screen plantings" surrounding the area enclosed by the
transparent fencing.
      C.   No two or more vehicles or major parts thereof may be stacked on top
of one another so as to protrude above the fence required by subsection (B)
hereof. In no event shall more than three vehicles or major parts thereof be
stacked on top of one another.
      D.   A 20-foot space between all rows of junk must be maintained at all
times.
      E.   No junk may be maintained or stored within 20 feet of any river,
stream or other watercourse or supply.
      F.   Whenever any vehicle shall he received at such premises as junk, all
gasoline and oil shall he drained and removed therefrom. This requirement shall
be performed compliance with any and all Federal, Slate and/or local laws or
regulations as may be in effect.
      G.   Such premises shall at all times be maintained so as not to
constitute a nuisance or a menace to the health of the community or of
residents nearby or a place for the breeding of rodents or vermin.
      H.   No garbage or other organic waste shall be stored in such premises.
      I.   All junk shall be maintained at the licensed premises in a neat and
orderly fashion.
      J.   No junkyard or salvage yard shall operate in violation of the any
other Borough ordinance as may be in effect.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 8)
§ 409.   FEDERAL OR COMMONWEALTH REGULATIONS.
The requirements and regulations contained in this Part are in addition to any
Federal or Commonwealth laws, rules or regulations. and a license from the
Borough shall not he deemed or construed in any way to certify compliance with
any Federal or Commonwealth requirements which may be in effect from time to
time.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 9)
§ 410.   SEVERABILITY.
The provisions of this Part are severable and if any of the provisions hereof
shall he held to be unconstitutional, the decision of the court shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions of this Part. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent that this Part would have been adopted
had such unconstitutional provisions not been included herein.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 10)
§ 411.   PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person or business entity who shall violate §§
404,
405 or
408 of this Part shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000. Each day that
a violation of any of said Sections continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   2.   Any person or business entry who shall violate §
406 of this Part shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $600. Each day that a
violation of said Section continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
   3.   In addition to the penalties provided for this Section, the Borough may
institute proceedings in the courts of' equity to remove, abate or correct any
violation of any Section of this Part. In the event the Borough shall have
expended moneys to remove, correct or abate any violations of this Part, the
Borough may recover the costs thereof together with a penalty of 10% of such
costs and an attorney's fee of 5%.
   4.   The remedies provided for in this Section shall not he deemed mutually
exclusive and may be initiated simultaneously or consecutively in the Borough's
sole discretion.
(Ord. 8-2000, 9/5/2000, § 11)
CHAPTER 11
HOUSING
PART 1
REGISTERED SEXUALLY VIOLENT OFFENDERS RESTRICTIONS
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Sexual Offender [Residency] Restrictions
   §
103.   Notice to Move
   §
104.   Exceptions to Residency Restrictions
   §
105.   Penalties
   §
106.   Enforcement
PART 1
REGISTERED SEXUALLY VIOLENT OFFENDERS RESTRICTIONS
§ 101.   DEFINITIONS.
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Portage, including its residents and all land
within its territorial boundaries.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY - a licensed day care center, licensed child care
facility or any other child care services facility exempt from licensing to the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   COMMUNITY CENTER - a building and related facilities used for educational,
social, cultural or recreational activities.
   LOITER - to linger aimlessly or remain in a certain place for no apparent
reason.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE - a place where a person lives, abides, lodges, or
resides for 14 or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATIONAL FACILITY - any land, or tract of land, or
facility used for passive or active recreation, including any playground, park,
skate park, athletic field or any other facility owned or operated by the
Borough or any other governmental agency, including the Portage Area School
District, the County of Cambria or the Commonwealth of Pennsylva nia.
   SCHOOL - any educational building or facility that provides educational
services to a minor child, as defined by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, including any public or private facility.
   SEX OFFENDER - any person, over the age of 18 years, who has been convicted
of any sexually violent offense or crime as defined in 42 Pa.C.S.A. § 9795.1,
and who is determined to be a sexually violent predator pursuant to 42
Pa.C.S.A. 9795.4. Sex offender shall also include any individuals convicted of
any attempt to commit offenses as enumerated herein.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE - a place where a person lives, abides, lodges, or
resides for a period of less than 14 days in the aggregate during any calendar
year, which is not the person's permanent address or place where the person
routinely lives, abides, lodges, or resides and which is not the person's
permanent residence.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 1)
§ 102.   SEXUAL OFFENDER [RESIDENCY] RESTRICTIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any sex offender or other person over the age
of 18 years who has been convicted of a violation which requires registration
pursuant to 42 Pa.C.S.A. § 9791, et seq., or who has been convicted of a
violation which requires registration in another jurisdiction, to reside,
lodge, abide or live within 1,500 feet of any school, child care facility,
church, community center, public playground, public park or recreational
facility.
   2.   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the residence or lodging of the sex offender to the nearest outer
property line of the school, child care facility, church, community center,
pubic playground, public park or recreational facility.
   3.   Such person who resides or lives within 1,500 feet of any school, child
care facility, open space, community center, public park or recreational
facility in the Borough shall have 45 days from receipt of written notice of
the prohibition set forth herein to move. Failure to move to a location which
is in compliance with this Section within that time period shall constitute a
violation of this Part.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any sex offender to loiter within 500 feet of
any school, child care facility, church, community center, public playground,
public park or recreational facility in the Borough.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 2)
§ 103.   NOTICE TO MOVE.
Any sex offender who resides on a permanent or temporary basis within 1,500
feet of any school, child care facility, common open space, community center,
public park or recreational facility shall, within 45 days of receipt of
written notice of the sex offender’s non-compliance with this Part, move from
said location to a new location, but said location may not be within 1,500 feet
of any school, child care facility, common open space, community center, public
park or recreational facilities within the Borough. It shall constitute a
continuing violation for each day beyond the 45 days the sex offender continues
to reside within 1,500 feet of a school, child care facility, common open
space, community center, park or recreational facilities. Further more, it
shall be a violation each day that a sex offender shall move from one location
in the Borough to another that is within 1,500 feet of any school, child care
facility, common open space, community center, public park or recreational
facilities.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 3)
§ 104.   EXCEPTIONS TO RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
This Part shall not apply to any person or sex offender who has established a
residence prior to the date of adoption of this Part, and shall not apply if
the school, child care facility, open space, community center, public park or
recreational facility within 1,500 feet of sexual offender’s residence or
lodging was established subsequent to the establishment of this sex offender’s
residence or lodging. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any
person or sex offender who has established a residence or lodging, and then
relocates to a different residence or lodging within the Borough after the
adoption of this Part.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 4)
§ 105.   PENALTIES.
Any violation of this Part shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days and a fine not exceeding $1,000 for each violation, in
addition to the costs of prosecution and attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 5)
§ 106.   ENFORCEMENT.
All agencies and authorities within the Borough including, but not limited to,
the Portage Borough Police Department, have full authority to enforce this
Part, and impose such fines and other penalties as necessary and appropriate.
(Ord. 8-2007, 9/4/2007, § 6)
CHAPTER 12
LIBRARIES
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 13
LICENSES, PERMITS AND GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
PART 1
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
   §
101.   Definition of Terms
   §
102.   Gambling Devices Not Permitted
   §
103.   License Required
   §
104.   Application
   §
105.   License Fees
   §
106.   Display of License
   §
107.   Prohibitions and Restrictions
   §
108.   Revocation of License
   §
109.   Penalty
PART 2
OBSCENE MATERIALS; PROHIBITED BUSINESSES
   §
201.   Definitions
   §
202.   Offenses
   §
203.   Admission to Show
   §
204.   Dissemination to Minors
   §
205.   Prohibited Businesses
   §
206.   Injunction
   §
207.   Penalties
PART 3
TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS
   §
301.   Definitions
   §
302.   License Required; Conditions of Issuance; Fee
   §
303.   Exceptions
   §
304.   License Application
   §
305.   Issuance of License; Custody, Display and Exhibit
   §
306.   Prohibited Acts
   §
307.   Supervision; Records and Reports
   §
308.   Denial, Suspension and Revocation of License; Appeal
   §
309.   Penalties
PART 4
TRANSIENT AMUSEMENTS
   §
401.   Definitions
   §
402.   Permit and Fees Required
   §
403.   Rejection of Permits; Appeals
   §
404.   Penalties
PART 5
[RESERVED]
PART 1
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 101.   DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   JUICE BOX - any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot, crevice or
other opening, or by the payment of any price operates or may be operated for
the emission of songs, musical or similar amusement.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE - any machine which upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token, plate or disc may be operated by the public generally for
use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score.
It shall include such devices as marble machines, pinball machines, skill ball,
mechanical grab machines and all games, operations or transactions similar
thereto under whatever name they may be indicated.
   PERSON, FIRMS, CORPORATIONS or ASSOCIATIONS - includes the following: any
person, firm, corporation or association which owns any such machines; the
person, firm or corporation or association in whose place of business any such
machine is placed for use by the public and the person, firm, corporation or
association having control over such machine; provided, however, that the
payment of such fee by any person, firm, corporation or association enumerated
herein shall be deemed a compliance with this Section of the Part.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 1)
§ 102.   GAMBLING DEVICES NOT PERMITTED.
Nothing in this Part shad in any way be constructed to license or permit any
gambling device whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been judicially
determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law, or that may
be contrary to any future laws of the State of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 2)
§ 103.   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person, firm, corporation or association displaying for public patronage or
keeping for operation any juke box or mechanical amusement device as herein
defined by §
101 shall be required to obtain a license from the Borough of Portage, upon
payment of a licensee fee. Application for such license shall be made to the
Borough Manager or his designee, upon a form to be supplied by the Borough of
Portage.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 3; as amended by Ord. 3-1999. 4/5/1999)
§ 104.   APPLICATION.
   1.   The application for such license shall contain the following
information:
      A.   Name and address of the applicant; age, date and place of birth.
      B.   Prior convictions of applicant, if any.
      C.   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and the
business conducted at that place.
      D.   Description of machine to be covered by the license, mechanical
features, name of manufacturer, serial number.
   2.   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he shall be over 21
years of age and a citizen of the United States.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 4)
§ 105.   LICENSE FEES.
   1.   Every applicant for an amusement license shall pay a fee, in an amount
as established from time to time by resolution of Borough Council, for the
privilege of operating or maintaining for operation each juke box or mechanical
device of a mechanical, electrical or electronic nature, as defined in §
101, herein. (Ord. 3-1999)
   2.   The license year shall be a calendar year with notice of assessment on
or before December 15 of each year and to be paid by January 15, of the permit
year. Any device installed after July 1 shall pay 1/2 of the annual fee, within
10 days of installation.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 6; as amended by Ord. 4-1982, 12/6/1982; by Ord. 3-
1939, 5 /1/1989; and by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 106.   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   1.   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted permanently
and conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises wherein the
device is to be operated or maintained to be operated.
   2.   Such license may be transferred from one machine or device to another
similar machine upon application to the Borough Manager or his designee to such
effect and the giving of a description and the serial number of the new machine
or device. Not more than one machine shall be operated under one license and
the applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each and
every machine displayed or operated by him. [Ord. 3-1999]
   3.   If the licensee shall move his place of business to another location
within the Borough of Portage, the license may be transferred to such new
location upon application to the Borough Manager or his designee, giving the
street and number of the new location. [Ord. 3-1999]
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 7; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 107.   PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
No person, firm, corporation or association holding a license under this Part
shall permit the playing of juke boxes, as defined in §
101, between the hours of 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. of any day
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 8; as amended by Ord. 5-2003, 5/5/2003, § 1)
§ 108.   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Every license issued under this Part is subject to the right, which is hereby
expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly, permit the operation of any juke box or mechanical amusement device
contrary to the provisions of this Part, the ordinances of the Borough of
Portage, or the law of the State of Pennsylvania. Said license may be revoked
by the Borough of Portage after written notice to the licensee, which notice
shall specify the ordinance or law violations with which the licensee is
charged, if after a hearing the licensee is found to be guilty of such
violations. Ten days notice of the hearing shall be given the licensee. At such
hearing the licensee and his attorney may present and submit evidence of
witnesses in his defense.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 9; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 109.   PENALTY.
Any person, firm, corporation or association who shall violate any provision of
this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to
exceed $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 218, 3/21/1957, § 11; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 2
OBSCENE MATERIALS; PROHIBITED BUSINESSES
§ 201.   DEFINITIONS.
As used in this Part, the following words or phrases shall have the meanings
indicated:
   COMMUNITY - for the purpose of applying the "contemporary community
standards" in this Section, community means the geographic area of the Borough
of Portage, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE - a drug, substance or immediate precursor as defined
in the Pennsylvania Controlled Substance, Drug, Device and Cosmetic Act or any
amendments thereto.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA - any objects, devices, instruments, apparatus or
contrivances, whose primary and traditionally exclusive use is involved with
the illegal use of any and all controlled substances under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   HEAD SHOP - any business, the operation of which involves the sale, lease,
trade, gift or display for sale, of any and all types of drug paraphernalia.
   IMMEDIATE PRECURSOR - a substance which, under the regulations of the
Pennsylvania Department of Health, is a principle compound commonly used or
produced primarily for use, and which is an immediate chemical intermediary
used or likely be used, in the manufacture of a controlled substance.
   KNOWING - as used in §
202, knowing means having general knowledge of, or reason to know or a belief
or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or incuiry of the
character and content of any material described therein which is reasonably
susceptible of examination by the defendant.
   MASSAGE - any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulation of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliances, with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefon
   MASSAGE PARLOR - any establishment having a source of income or compensation
derived from the practice of massage and which has a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on the
practice of massage.
   MINOR - any person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY - the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with Jess than a fully opaque covering or any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in discernible
turgid state.
   OBSCENE MATERIALS - any literature, including any book, magazine, pamphlet,
newspaper, storypaper, comic book or writing, and any figure, visual
representation or image including any drawing, photograph, picture or motion
picture if:
      A.   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find that the subject matter taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest.
      B.   The subject matter depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, sexual conduct of a type described in this Section.
      C.   The subject matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political, education or scientific value.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE - flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergar ments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT - as used in §§
202 and
203, patently offensive representations, descriptions or renditions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated and patently offensive
representations, descriptions or renditions of masturbation, excretory
functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals. As used in §
204, "sexual conduct" means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual
intercourse or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals,
pubic area, buttocks or, if such person be a female, breasts.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT - the conditions of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   TRADITIONALLY EXCLUSIVE USE - a use which is primary and inherent as opposed
to secondary and incidental and is associated with certain knowledge or beliefs
derived from statements of contemporary persons and handed down through a
considerable period of time.
   TRANSPORTATION FACILITY - any conveyance, premises or place used for or in
connection with public passenger transportation, whether by motor vehicle or
any other method, including buses and railroad and bus terminals and stations.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 1)
§ 202.   OFFENSES.
No person, knowing the obscene character of the materials involved shall,
within the Borough of Portage:
      A.   Display or cause or permit the display of any obscene materials or
explicit sexual materials as defined in §
201 of this Part, in or on any window, showcase, newsstand, display rack,
billboard, display board, viewing screen, motion picture screen, marquee or
similar place in such manner that the display is visible from any public
street, highway, sidewalk, transporta tion facility or other public
thoroughfare.
      B.   Sell, lend, distribute, exhibit, give away or show any obscene
materials to any person 18 years of age or older, or offer to sell, lend,
distribute, exhibit or give away or show, or have in his possession with intent
to sell, lend, distribute, exhibit or give away or show any obscene materials
to any person 18 years of age or older, or knowingly advertise any obscene
materials in any manner.
      C.   Design, copy, draw, photograph, print, utter, publish or in any
manner manufacture or prepare any obscene materials.
      D.   Write, print, publish, utter or cause to be written, printed,
published or uttered any advertisement or notice of any kind giving
information, directly or indirectly stating or purporting to state where, how,
from whom, or by what means any obscene materials can be purchased, obtained or
had.
      E.   Produce, present or direct any obscene performance or participate in
a portion thereof that is obscene or that contributes to its obscenity.
      F.   Hire, employ, use or permit any person (including a minor child or
children) to do or assist in doing any act or thing mentioned in this Section.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 2)
§ 203.   ADMISSION TO SHOW.
No person shall exhibit for monetary consideration to any other person, or sell
in admission ticket or pass to any other person or admit any other person to
premises whereon there is exhibited, a motion picture show, live performance or
any other presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual
excitement, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 3)
§ 204.   DISSEMINATION TO MINORS.
No person shall knowingly disseminate by sale, loan or otherwise, explicit
sexual materials to a minor. "Explicit sexual materials,' as used in this
Section, means obscene materials or:
      A.   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body
which depicts nudity; sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which is
harmful to minors; or,
      B.   Any book, pamphlet, magazine., printed matter however reproduced or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in subsection (A), or
explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual
excitement, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which, taken as a
whole, is harmful to minors.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 4)
§ 205.   PROHIBITED BUSINESSES.
   1.   The following businesses shall be prohibited throughout the Borough of
Portage:
      A.   The operation of a business which has obscene materials or explicit
sexual materials, as defined above, as a substantial or significant portion of
its stock in trade or which exhibits motion picture shows, live performances or
any other presentations which, in whole or in part, depict nudity, sexual
excitement sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse.
      B.   The operation of any massage parlor in which any of the following
activities are carried on:
         (1)   The treatment of any person of the opposite sex, except upon the
signed order of a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor or registered
physical therapist, which order shall be dated and shall specifically state the
number of treatments, not to exceed ten. The date and hour of each treatment
given and the name of the operator shall be entered on such order by the
establishment where such treatments are given and shall be open to inspection
by police. The requirements of this provision shall not apply to treatments
given in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed physician
osteopath or registered physical therapist, chiropractor or in a regularly
established and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
         (2)   The massage of, or physical contact with, the sexual or genital
parts of one person by any other person. Sexual or genital, pubic area,
buttocks, anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
         (3)   The failure to conceal with a fully opaque covering, the sexual
or genital parts of the body of any person.
      C.   The operation of any business which involves, in whole or in part,
the sale, lease, trade, gift or display for sale, of any and all types of drug
paraphernalia, as defined herein.
      D.   Any adult business, activity or use similar to or of the same
general nature as certain of the uses listed above.
   2.   This Section shall include, but shall not be limited to, rap centers,
nude wrestling studios, sensitivity centers and escort bureaus, all of which
exclude minors, by virtue of age, as patrons thereof.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 5)
§ 206.   INJUNCTION.
The Council of the Borough of Portage may institute or cause to be instituted
proceedings in equity in the Court of Common Pleas of Cambria County when any
person violates or clearly is about to violate this Part for the purpose of
enjoining such violation. The Court shall issue an injunction only after
written notice and hearing and only against the defendant to the action. The
court shall schedule and conduct a hearing on the matter in accordance with the
laws and rules of court of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Notice of such
hearing shall be given to the person or persons whose conduct is sought to be
enjoined. Any action may be taken in lieu of or in addition to any other action
authorized and taken under this Part and/or the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 6)
§ 207.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violates any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $600
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-1994, 7/25/1994, § 7; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 3
TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS
§ 301.   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning dearly appears from the context:
      LEGAL HOLIDAY - New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
      PERSON - any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS -
      A.   Engaging in peddling, soliciting or taking orders, either by sample
or otherwise, for any goods, wares or merchandise upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or public ground, or from house to house, within the Borough of
Portage.
      B.   Selling, soliciting or taking orders for any goods, wares, or
merchandise, from a fixed location within the Borough of Portage, on a
temporary basis, which shall include, but riot be limited to, such activities
conducted at the time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal
purposes or for yearly holidays.
   2.   The singular shall include the plural; the plural shall include the
singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 302.   LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE, FEE.
No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the Borough of
Portage without first having obtained from the Borough Manager or his designee
a license, for which a fee, which shall be for the use of the Borough shall be
charged, said fee to be in such amount established, from time to time by
resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 303.   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   No license fee shall be charged:
      A.   To farmers selling their own produce.
      B.   For the sale of goods, wares arid merchandise, donated by the owners
thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose.
      C.   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products, or milk and milk products.
      D.   To children under the age of 18 years who take orders for and
deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products and the like, or who
represent the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts or similar organizations.
      E.   To the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers
licensed under the insurance laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      F.   To a person who has complied with the provisions of the Solicitation
of Funds for Charitable Purposes Act, 10 P.S. § 162.1 et seq., as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of
Pennsylvania.
      G.   For taking orders for merchandise, by sample, from dealers or
merchants for individuals or companies who pay a license or business privilege
tax at their chief place of business.
   2.   But all persons exempted hereby from the payment of the license fee
shall be required to register with the Borough Manager or his designee and
obtain a license without fee; provided, any person dealing in one or more of
the above mentioned exempted categories, and dealing with other goods. wares or
merchandise not so exempted, shall be subject to the payment of the license fee
fixed by this Section for his activities in connection with the sale of goods,
wares and merchandise not in such exempted categories. Provided, further, the
Borough Manager or his designee may similarly exempt from payment of the
license fee, but not from registering with him, persons working without
compensation and selling goods, wares or merchandise for the sole benefit of a
nonprofit corporation. Provided, further, every license issued under the
provisions of this Part shall be issued on an individual basis to any person or
persons engaging in such business; every individual shall obtain a separate
license, issued to him in his name, and the license fee hereby imposed shall be
applicable to every such individual license, except that a representative of a
charitable organization may obtain licenses for the applicants.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 304.   LICENSE APPLICATION.
Every person desiring a license under this Part shall first make application to
the Borough Manager or his designee for such license. He shall, when making
such application, exhibit a valid license from any State or county officer, if
such license is also required. The applicant shall state:
      A.   His criminal record, if any.
      B.   Name and address of the person by whom he is employed.
      C.   Type of goods, wares and merchandise he wishes to deal with in such
transient retail business.
      D.   Length of time for which license is to be issued.
      E.   Type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any. (Ord. 3-
1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 305.   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CUSTODY, DISPLAY AND EXHIBIT.
Upon receipt of such application arid the prescribed fee, the Borough Manager
or his designee, if he shall find such application in order, shall issue the
license required under this Part. Such license shall contain the information
required to be given on the application therefor. Every license holder shall
carry such license upon his person if engaged in transient retail business from
house to house or upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds,
or shall display such license at the location where he shall engage in such
business if doing so at a fixed location. He shall exhibit such license, upon
request, to all police officers, municipal officials, and citizens or residents
of the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 306.   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person in any transient retail business shall:
      A.   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his license.
      B.   Hawk or cry his wares upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or
public grounds in the Borough of Portage.
      C.   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the Borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity.
      D.   Park a vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the Borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging or cleaning any of his goods, wares or
merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material or stock, wares or
foodstuffs which have become unsalable through handling, age or otherwise.
      E.   Engage in any business activity, except by prior appointment, at any
time on a Sunday or legal holiday or at any time before 9:00 a.m. or after dusk
on any day of the week other than a Sunday or legal holiday.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 307.   SUPERVISION; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
The Borough Manager or his designee shall supervise the activities of all
persons holding licenses under this Part. He shall keep a record of all
licenses issued hereunder and shall make a report thereof each month to the
Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 308.   DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
The Borough Manager or his designee is hereby authorized to deny, suspend or
revoke any license issued under this Part when he deems such denial, suspension
or revocation to be beneficial to the public health, safety or morals, or for
violation of any provision of this Part, or for giving false information upon
any a application for a license hereunder. Appeals from any suspension,
revocation or denial of a license may be made to the Borough Council at any
time within 10 days after such suspension, revocation or denial and a hearing
shall be held within 30 days of the petition for appeal. No part of a license
fee shall be refunded to any person whose license shall have been suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 309.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$603 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs. to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 4
TRANSIENT AMUSEMENTS
§ 401.   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      AMUSEMENT RIDE - any device that carries or conveys passengers along,
around or over a fixed or restricted route or course or within a defined area
for the purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills or
excitement including, but not limited to, merry-go-rounds, ferris wheels,
roller coasters, which may be permanently or temporarily installed or used in
the Borough.
      CARNIVAL or CIRCUS - an itinerant enterprise consisting principally of
temporary amusement structures and/or mechanical rides.
      PERSON - any natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural; the plural shall
include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter.
(Ord. 200, 10/10/1955, Art. VI, § 6; as revised by Ord. 3-1999. 4/5/1999)
§ 402.   PERMIT AND FEES REQUIRED.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or conduct any circus or
carnival, at any location within the Borough of Portage, or to operate any
amusement ride therein, without first having obtained a permit therefor from
the Borough Manager or his designee, for which a fee for the use of the Borough
shall be paid as established pursuant to a resolution of the Borough Council;
provided, that no separate permit shall be required for any amusement ride that
shall be a part of any carnival that shall be authorized under this Part.
   2.   At the discretion of the Borough Council, the permit fee may be
remitted in the case of a circus or carnival the proceeds of which are applied
to purely charitable uses or in the case the application for such permit shall
have been made by and on behalf of any organization connected with the
municipal government or with any public school district.
(Ord. 200, 10/10/1955, Art. VI, § 6; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 403.   REJECTION OF PERMITS; APPEALS.
   1.   The Borough Manager or his designee shall refuse to grant a permit in
any case where the owner of such circus or carnival, or the operator of any
amusement ride, as the case may be, fails or refuses to present an official
inspection affidavit prepared by a qualified inspector in accordance with the
Amusement Ride Inspection Act (4 P.S. § 407) and the regulations of the
Amusement Ride Safety Board (7 Pa. Code § 139.1 et seq.) along with a
certificate of insurance as required by § 414 of that same Act.
   2.   If any permit shall be denied, an appeal from such denial, may be made
by the applicant or by the person to whom such permit had been issued, as the
case may be, to the Borough Council, within 10 days of rejection, but no
portion of a permit fee shall be refunded in case of suspension or revocation.
Such hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the appeal and a decision
rendered by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 200, 10/10/1955, Art. VI, § 6; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 404.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Every day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 200, 1C/10/1955, Art. VI, § 6; as revised by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
PART 5
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 14
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
PART 1
MOBILE HOMES
   §
101.   Installation Requirements
   §
102.   Enforcement Penalties
PART 1
MOBILE HOMES
§ 101.   INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
If a mobile home is erected and maintained as a single-family dwelling house
outside a mobile home park, the following requirements shall be met:
      A.   No mobile home shall be erected on a single lot unless a building
permit is first obtained from the Borough.
      B.   The tract upon which the mobile home is installed shall be a minimum
of 25 feet by 125 feet, or 3,125 square feet.
      C.   No mobile home may be constructed on a lot already occupied by
another residence. For purposes of this subsection, "lot" shall be defined as a
tract or parcel of land described in a single deed, intended for transfer of
ownership, use, lease, improvement or development. [0rd. 1-2001].
      D.   The mobile home shall be installed so that the setback from the
front property conforms with other dwellings, on either side, and the mobile
home is set back at least 15 feet from adjacent occupied structures.
      E.   The mobile home shall be constructed on a foundation or setting of
the homeowner's choice, in accordance with accepted safety standards and
practices. After the mobile home has been placed upon a foundation as described
above. the hitch which is employed for the usual and normal movement of the
unit shall be removed. If it is a nonremovable hitch, then it shall be covered
by or included in the decorative skirt. After placement of the mobile home, the
base of the home shall be covered by a manufactured decorative skirting.
      F.   All mobile homes shall be connected directly to a public water and
sewer system. If a public sewer is not available a permit must be secured for
an onlot disposal system. All service and utility connections must be permanent
installations.
      G.   Installation of all mobile homes shall comply with the applicable
Portage Borough Floodplain Management Ordinance [
Chapter 8].
      H.   Any single on lot mobile home shall meet the specifications for
manufacture of mobile homes as set forth in United States Standards Institute
Standards for Mobile Homes, USA Standard A 119.1-1969, NFPA No. 501B-1968, and
any subsequent modification or amendment of such standards.
(Ord. 2-1987, 7/13/1987, § 1; as amended by Ord. 6-2000, 2/7/2000; and by Ord.
1-2001, 2/5/2001)
§ 102.   ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a line not to exceed $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Pan
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-1987, 7/ 13/1987, § 2: as amended by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
CHAPTER 15
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
PART 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
   §
101.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
   §
103.   Provisions to be Continuation of Existing Regulations
   §
104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
   §
105.   Experimental Regulations
   §
106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction, Maintenance or
Special Events
   §
107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages
   §
108.   Authority of Police Officers
   §
109.   Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices
PART 2
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   §
201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets
   §
202.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Bridges and Elevated
Structures
   §
203.   Maximum Speed Limits Established for Certain Vehicles on Hazardous
Grades
   §
204.   Maximum Speed Limits Established in Parks
   §
205.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations
   §
206.   Intersections Where Turn Prohibited on Red Signal
   §
207.   One-Way Streets Established
   §
208.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted
   §
209.   Right Turns Prohibited at Certain Intersections
   §
210.   U-Turns Prohibited at Certain Locations
   §
211.   No Passing Zones Established
   §
212.   Through Highways Established
   §
213.   Stop Intersections Established
   §
214.   Yield Intersections Established
   §
215.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Restricted on Public Lands
   §
216.   Play Highways Established and Authorized
   §
217.   Snowmobile Roads Designated
PART 3
RESTRICTIONS ON SIZE, WEIGHT AND TYPE OF VEHICLE AND LOAD
   §
301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges
   §
302.   Restrictions on Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and Bridges
   §
303.   Restrictions as to Weight and Size of Vehicles nn Certain Streets and
Bridges
   §
304.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets
PART 4
GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
   §
400.   Parking of Vehicles
   §
401.   Vehicles to be Parked Within Marked Spaces
   §
402.   Parking Prohibited at all Times in Certain Locations
   §
403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours
   §
404.   Parking of Trucks, Buses and Certain Other Vehicles Prohibited in
Certain Locations
   §
405.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours
   §
406.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise Prohibited
   §
407.   Standing or Parking on Roadway for Loading or Unloading
   §
408.   Angle Parking Required on Portions of Certain Streets
   §
409.   Parking Prohibited on Portions of Certain Highways During Street
Sweeping Hours
   §
410.   Residential Permit Parking
   §
411.   Penalties
   §
412.   Parking on Certain Streets and Avenues for the Purpose of Snow Plowing
and Removal
PART 5
ON-STREET METERED PARKING
   §
501.   Parking Meter Zone Established
   §
502.   Days and Hours Parking Meters in Operation and Parking Time Limits Apply
   §
503.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters
   §
504.   Parked Vehicles to be Wholly Within Marked Spaces
   §
505.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful
   §
506.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter
   §
507.   Unlawful to Deposit Coin in Meter to Extend Parking Time Beyond Legal
Limit
   §
508.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at Meter Showing Violation
   §
509.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter
   §
510.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within 98
Flours
   §
511.   Penalty for Violation
   §
512.   Exceptions
PART 6
OFF-STREET METERED PARKING
   §
601.   Metered Parking Lots Established
   §
602.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters
   §
603.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May be Provided
   §
604.   Parked Vehicles to be Wholly Within Marked Spaces
   §
605.   Manner of Parking at Meters
   §
606.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful
   §
607.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter
   §
608.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at a Meter Showing Violation
   §
609.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter
   §
610.   Metered Parking Lots for Certain Types of Vehicles Only
   §
611.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within 48
Hours
   §
612.   Penalty for Violation
PART 7
OFF-STREET UNMETERED PARKING
   §
701.   Establishment
   §
702.   Free Parking Hours
   §
703.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Business Use
   §
704.   Parking Permits for Residents
   §
705.   Special Event Parking Permits
   §
706.   No Parking or Special Purpose Parking Zones Within the Unmetered Parking
Lot
   §
707.   Unmetered Lot for Certain Types of Vehicles
   §
708.   Manner of Parking
   §
709.   Penalty for Violation
PART 8
REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
   §
801.   Applicability and Scope
   §
802.   Authority to Remove and Impound
   §
803.   Tow Away Zones Designated
   §
804.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and Storage
   §
805.   Payment of Towing and Storage Charges
   §
806.   Reclamation Cost
   §
807.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded
   §
808.   Restrictions Upon Removal of Vehicles
   §
809.   Penalty for Violation
   §
810.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles
PART 9
SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY
   §
901.   Declaration of Snow and Ice Emergency
   §
902.   Parking Prohibited, Driving Motor Vehicles Restricted on Snow Emergency
Routes During Emergency
   §
903.   Snow Emergency Routes Designated
   §
904.   Penalty for Violation
PART 10
REGULATION OF PEDALCYCLES AND NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES
   §
1001.   Riding and Parking of Pedalcycles on Sidewalks Along Certain Streets
Prohibited
   §
1002.   Restrictions on Use of Pushcarts
   §
1003.   Skates, Skateboards, Coasters, Sleds and Other Toy Vehicles
PART 11
PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS
   §
1101.   Pedestrians to Obey Traffic-Control Signs
   §
1102.   Pedestrian-Control Signal Locations Established
   §
1103.   Locations Where Pedestrian Crossing in Unmarked Crosswalks Restricted
   §
1104.   Locations Where Pedestrians May Cross Only in Crosswalk
   §
1105.   Penalty for Violation
PART 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 101.   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   1.   Words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, except for Sections or
parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in The Vehicle Code, the Act of June 17, 1976, P.L.
162 No. 81, as amended, except that in this Chapter the word 'street" may be
used interchangeably with the word "highway," and shall have the same meaning
as the word "highway" as defined in the Vehicle Code.
   2.   The term 'legal holidays" as used in this Chapter shall mean and
include: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   3.   In this Chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 102.   MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted as
ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this Chapter, except where the law specifically authorizes less
formal action.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 103.   PROVISIONS TO BE CONTINUATION OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.
The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in Force immediately before the enactment of this
Chapter, are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 104.   TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   1.   The [Designated Official] shall have the following powers to regulate
traffic and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      A.   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and,
      B.   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   2.   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall he enforced by the
Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations. Any person who
shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such
regulations, or who shall move, remove, destroy, injure or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted or made to give notice of any such regulation, shall
upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or
elsewhere in this Chapter for a violation of such nature, and, in case of a
violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this Chapter, to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 105.   EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
The Borough Council may, from time to time by resolution, designate places upon
and along the highways in the Borough where, for a period of not more than 90
days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and
restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such locations
by proper signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions and restrictions
shall be effective as if they had been specified in this Chapter. No person
shall operate and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted or made by authority of this Section. Any person who
shall violate any provision of this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subiect to the penalty se: forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter for a
violation of such nature, and in case of a violation for which no specific
penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter, to a fine of not
more than $25 together with costs of prosecution; provided, the purpose of this
Section is to allow for the test and experimental determination of the
feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the
Borough relative to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 106.   TRAFFIC ON STREETS CLOSED OR RESTRICTED FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE
OR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   1.   The Borough Council shall have authority to close any street or
specific part of a street to vehicular traffic and to place barriers or station
police officers at each end of the closed portion, while construction or
maintenance work is under way or a special event is being conducted on the
closed portion. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any
such closed portion.
   2.   The Borough Council shall have authority to establish a restricted
traffic area upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under
way and to station flagmen at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic
area at any time when the flagman is displaying a sign directing that vehicle
to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not to
proceed.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 107.   USE OF STREETS BY PROCESSIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   1.   For the purpose of this Section, the words "assemblage" and
"procession" shall have the following meanings:
      ASSEMBLAGE - a gathering of people without vehicles, which interferes
with the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street.
      PROCESSION - a group of individuals. vehicles, animals and/or objects
moving along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of
traffic. A procession shall not include a funerai caravan or military convoy.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains a permit from the [Designated Official], which shall be issued without
fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 1 week in advance of the
day on which the assemblage is proposed to be held, but in any case where a
State-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall state the place
where and the date when the assemblage is to be held, the hour when the
assemblage may convene and the hour by which it shall have been completely
dispersed. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or to participate in any
assemblage unless the permit has been granted, or at any time or place other
than that authorized by the permit.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains a permit from the [Designated Official], which shall be issued without
fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 2 weeks in advance of
the day when the procession is proposed to be held, but in any case where the
State-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall specify the
date on which the procession is to be held, the route to be followed by the
procession, the hour when and place where participants may commence to assemble
and form before the procession is under way, the time when the procession may
commence to move along its route, and the time by which the end of the
procession shall have been disbanded. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hold or to participate in any procession unless the permit shall have been
granted, or under any conditions as to time or route or otherwise than those
stated in the permit.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 108.   AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
The police officers of the Borough are hereby authorized to direct traffic on
the highways of the Borough and at intersections thereof and to otherwise
enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4 /5/1999)
§ 109.   AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF SPEED TIMING DEVICES.
   1.   The Borough of Portage Police Department is hereby authorized to use
all speed timing devices for the determination of speed of a motor vehicle as
are approved or will be approved by the Department of Transportation of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in accordance with Title 75, Pa. C.S.A. § 3368.
   2.   This Section authorizes the use of said devices upon all highways
within the Borough be they Borough county or State highways, and does also
hereby elect tc exercise ad powers granted to "local authorities" under the
Vehicle Code of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 75 Pa. C.S.A. § 6101 et seq.,
(1977), as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 2
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 201.   MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies, at a higher speed than
the maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
 
Street              Between                       Maximum Speed Limit
All Borough Streets                               25 mph
                    Prospect Street and High      15 mph (7 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.;
Johnson Avenue      Street (both sides; school    2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.) [Ord.
                    zone)                         2-2006]
                    Grant Street and High Street  15 mph (7 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.;
Mountain Avenue     (both sides; school zone)     2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.) [Ord.
                                                  2-2006]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum
speed limit by more than five miles per hour shall pay an additional fine of $2
per mile for each mile in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed
limit. Any person exceeding any school zone speed limit established by this
Section by more than 11 miles per hour shall pay a fine of not more than $500.
[Ord. 2-2006]
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 2-2006, 7/5/2006, §§ 1, 2)
§ 202.   MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED ON CERTAIN BRIDGES AND ELEVATED
STRUCTURES.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established, as follows, on certain bridges
and elevated structures, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle on any such bridge or elevated structure, at a higher speed than the
maximum prescribed for that bridge or elevated structure:
 
Bridge or Elevated Structure Location Maximum Speed Limit
   (Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum
speed limit by more than five miles per hour shall pay an additional fine of $2
per mile for each mile in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed
limit.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 203.   MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES ON HAZARDOUS
GRADES.
   1.   The following are declared to be hazardous grades, and, upon any such
hazardous grade, no person shall drive a vehicle, having a gross weight in
excess of that referred to for that grade, in the direction stated for that
grade, at a speed in excess of that established in this Section for that grade,
and, if so stated for a particular grade, the driver of every such vehicle
shall stop the vehicle before proceeding downhill:
 
               Direction of Maximum Gross                     Required to Stop
Street Between Travel       Weight        Maximum Speed Limit Before Proceeding
                                                              Downhill
   (Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum
speed limit by more than five miles per hour shall pay an additional fine of $2
for each mile in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 204.   MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED IN PARKS.
   1.   A speed limit of 15 miles per hour is established on all streets and
roadways in the public parks maintained and operated by the Borough, except in
the following locations, where the lower maximums, as specified, shall apply:
 
Park                    Street Location Maximum Speed Limit
Crichton-McCormick Park        All      15 [Ord. 2-2006]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum
speed limit by more than five miles per hour shall pay an additional fine of $2
per mile for each mile in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed
limit.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 2-2006, 7/5/2006, § 3)
§ 205.   TRAFFIC SIGNALS AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   1.   At the following locations, traffic signals as indicated below shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected), and traffic at those locations
shall be directed by those signals:
 
Location                        Type of Signal
Main Street and Mountain Avenue Lighted
Main Street and Dulancy Avenue  Lighted
 
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who disobeys the directions of any traffic
signal shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 206.   INTERSECTIONS WHERE TURN PROHIBITED ON RED SIGNAL.
   1.   The following are established as intersections where drivers of
vehicles headed in the direction or directions indicated are prohibited from
making a right turn (or a left turn from a one-way street into another one-way
street) on a steady red signal:
 
Intersection            Vehicles Traveling On Facing     Hours
Main Street and Dulancy West on Dulancy       Lee Street 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
                                                         [Ord. 5-2004]
 
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who violates any provision of this Section
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 5-2004, 8/2/2004, § 1)
§ 207.   ONE-WAY STREETS ESTABLISHED.
   1.   The following are established as one-way streets, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any one-way street other than in
the direction established for traffic on that street:
 
Street                   From            To              Direction of Travel
Branch Alley             Caldwell Avenue Johnson Avenue  South
Branch Street            Mountain Avenue Caldwell Avenue North
Rex Alley                Calowell Avenue Conemaugh       South
Rex Alley [Ord. 2- 2009] Caldwell Avenue Sonman Avenue   South
Stager's Alley           Caldwell Avenue Railroad Street North
Webster Avenue           Lee Street      Blair Street    West [Ord. 5-2004]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 5-2004, 8/2/2004, § 2; and by Ord.
2-2009, 3/2/2009, § 1)
§ 208.   TURNING AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, of the type
indicated, traveling upon the first-named street at any of the following
intersections, in the direction or directions indicated in each case, to make a
left turn and/or a right turn into the second-named street, as indicated, at
any time when such a turn is prohibited by this Section:
 
Vehicles       Direction of Not to Make Into        When      Type of Vehicle
Traveling On   Travel       Turn                              Applicable To
Portage                     Left Turn   Main Street All Times All Vehicles
National Bank
Old Rite-Aid                Left Turn   Main Street All Times All Vehicles
Pharmacy
U.S. Post
Office Parking              Left Turn   Main Street All Times All Vehicles
Lot
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 209.   RIGHT TURNS PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, traveling upon the
first-named street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or
directions indicated in each case, to make other than a left turn, at any time
stated, both right turns and straight-across traffic being prohibited:
 
Vehicles Traveling On Direction of Travel Times Not to Make Right Turn Into or
                                                Travel Straight Across
   (Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 210.   U-TURNS PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle. I raveling upon any
of the following portions of streets. in the direotion or directions indicated
for that street, to make a u-turn:
 
Street     Portion Direction of Travel
(Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
oonviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 211.   NO PASSING ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   1.   The following are established as no passing zones, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to overtake or pass another vehiole or
to drive on the left side of the roadway in any no passing zone:
 
Street              Direction of Travel Between
All Borough streets
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenoed to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 212.   THROUGH HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED.
   1.   The following highways are established as through highways, thus
authorizing stop or yield signs to be erected facing traffic approaching every
intersection with the through highway except for those intersections with
traffic signals, or with exceptions or modifications as indioated below. Every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop or yield sign authorized by this Sec:ion
shall stop the vehicle or yield right-of-way as required by §§ 3323(b) or 3323
(c) of the Vehicle Code, as the case may be, and shall not proceed into or
across the through highway until he has followed all applicable requirements of
that Section of the law:
 
Highway    Between
(Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 213.   STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   1.   The fallowing intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
212) are established as stop intersections, and official stop signs shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face
traffic approaching the seoond-named street (the intersecting or through
street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in the direction or
directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle
approaching the intersection on the first-named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by § 3323
(b) of the Vehicle Code, and shall not proceed into or across the second-named
or intersecting or through street until he has followed all applicable
requirements of that Section or the law.
Stop Street Intersection or Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street            Intersection or Through Street Direction of Travel
Ash Street             Lincoln Drive                  South
Bedford Street         Gillespie Avenue               North and south
Bedford Street         Caldwell Avenue                North
Blair Street           Conemaugh Avenue               Ncrth and south (4-way)
Blair Street           Johnson Avenue                 North and south (4-way)
Blair Street           Gillespie Avenue               South
Blair Street           South Railroad Street          North
Blair Street           Caldwell Avenue                North and south (4-way)
Blair Street           Jefferson Avenue               North and south (4-way)
Blair Street           Sonman Avenue                  North and south (4-way)
Blair Street           Webster Avenue                 North and south (4-way)
Branch Street          Caldwell Avenue                North
Caldwell Avenue        Hammer Street                  West (3-way)
Caldwell Avenue        Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
Caldwell Avenue        High Street                    East and west
Caldwell Avenue        Hammer Street                  East (3-way)
Caldwell Avenue        Maken Street                   East
Caldwell Avenue        Grant Street                   East
Caldwell Avenue        McClellan Street               East
Caldwell Avenue        Plaza Alley                    East
Caldwell Avenue        Sherman Street                 East
Cambria Street         Jefferson Avenue               North and south
Cambria Street         Caldwell Avenue                North
Cambria Street         Gillespie Avenue               North and south
Cambria Street         Conemaugh Avenue               North and south
Cambria Street         Sonman Avenue                  North
Cambria Street         Johnson Avenue                 North and south
Ceniral Alley          (no intersection)              North
Ceniral Alley          Mountain Avenue                South
Conemaugh Avenue       Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
Conemaugh Avenue       Hammer Street                  West
Conemaugh Avenue       Oak Street                     East
Conemaugh Avenue       Vine Street                    West
Cunnard Street         Caldwell Avenue                North
Cunnard Street         Gillespie Avenue               South
Farren Street          Johnson Avenue                 South
Farren Street          Mountain Avenue                South
Farren Street          Caldwell Avenue                North and south
Freemont Avenue        Lee Street                     East
Gillespie Avenue       Hammer Street                  East and west (4-way)
Gillespie Avenue       Maken Street                   West
Grant Street           Caldwell Avenue                North
Grant Street           Mountain Avenue                South
Grant Street           Johnson Avenue                 South
Grant Street           Park Avenue                    South
Grove Street           Orange Avenue                  North
Grove Street           Freemont Avenue                North
Hammer Street          Jefferson Avenue               North and south (4-way)
.Hammer Street         Gillespie Avenue               North and south (4-way)
Hammer Street          Caldwell Avenue                North (3-way)
Hammer Street          Sonman Avenue                  North and south (4-way)
Hammer Street          Johnson Avenue                 North and south (4-way)
High Street            Mountain Avenue                South
High Street            Park Avenue                    South
Hopfer Avenue          Blair Street                   West
Hopfer Avenue          Grove Street                   West
Hopfer Avenue          Lee Street                     East (3-way)
Jefferson Avenue       Hammer Street                  East and west (4-way)
Jefferson Avenue       Vine Street                    East
Jefferson Avenue       Bedford Street                 West
Jefferson Avenue       Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
Johnson Avenue         Hammer Street                  East and west (4-way)
Johnson Avenue         Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
Lee Street             (boundary line)                North
Lee Street             Hopfer Avenue                  North and south (3-way)
Legion Avenue          Lee Street                     West
Legion Avenue          Main Street                    East
Lincoln Drive          Terrace Circle                 West
Main Street            Jefferson Avenue               South
Main Street            Gillespie Avenue               South
Main Street            North Railroad Avenue          South
Main Street            Conemaugh Avenue               South
Main Street            (boundary line)                North
Main Street            Caldwell Avenue                North
Main Street            Johnson Avenue                 South
Main Street            Sonman Avenue                  South
Maple Street           Gillespie Avenue               North
Maple Street           Jefferson Avenue               South
McClellan Street       Mountain Avenue                South
McClellan Street       Caldwell Avenue                North
McClellan Street       Park Avenue                    North and south (4-way)
Mill Alley             Johnson Avenue                 South
Mountain Avenue        Grant Street                   East
Mountain Avenue        Sherman Street                 East
Mountain Avenue        Apple Alley                    East
Mountain Avenue        Orchard Street                 East
Mountain Avenue        Prospect Street                East
Mountain Avenue        Farren Street                  East
Oak Street             Jefferson Avenue               Northwest
Oak Street             Sonman Avenue                  Northwest
Orange Avenue          Lee Street                     East
Orchard Street         Caldwell Avenue                North and south
Orchard Street         South Railroad Avenue          North
Orchard Street         Park Avenue.                   South
Orchard Street         Mountain Avenue                South
Orchard Street         Johnson Avenue                 South
Park Avenue            Farren Street                  West
Park Avenue            Grant Street                   East
Park Avenue            Prospect Street                East
Park Avenue            Orchard Street                 East
Park Avenue            Sherman Street                 East
Park Avenue            McClellan Street               East and West (4-way)
Prospeot Street        Park Avenue                    South
Prospeot Street        Mountain Avenue                South
Prospect Street        Johnson Avenue                 South
Prospect Street        Caldwell Avenue                North arid south
Railroad Avenue, North Main Street                    West
Railroad Avenue, South Main Street                    East
Railroad Avenue, South Plaza Alley                    East
Sherman Street         Caldwell Avenue                North
Sherman Street         Johnson Avenue                 South
Sherman Street         Mountain Avenue                South
Sherman Street         Park Avenue                    South
Sherry Lane.           Terrace Circle                 West
Sonman Avenue          Hammer Street                  East and west (4-way)
Sonman Avenue          Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
Terrace Circle         Washington Avenue              North
Terrace Circle         Lincoln Drive                  North
Terrace Circle         Washington Avenue              North
Vine Street            Gillespie Avenue               North and south
Vine Street            Jefferson Avenue               South
Vine Street            Caldwell Avenue                North
Vine Street            Sonman Avenue                  South
Washington Avenue      Lee Street                     East
Washington Avenue      Chest nut Street               East
Webster Avenue         Ash Street                     West
Webster Avenue         Blair Street                   East and west (4-way)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, he sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and oosts.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 7-2091, 12/3/2001, § 1)
§ 214.   YIELD INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   1.   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
212) are established as yield intersections, and official yield signs shall he
erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face
traffic approaching the second-named street (the through street) on the first-
named street (the yield street) in the direction or directions indicated for
that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on
the first-named or yield street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall
slow down or stop the vehicle as required by § 3323(c) of the Vehicle Code, and
then yield the right-of-way as required by that subsection of the Vehicle Code.
 
Yield Street Through Street Direction of Travel
(Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 215.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES RESTRICTED ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   1.   No motor vehicle including a motorcycle, pedalcycle or minibike shall
be operated on any property owned by the Borough or any other public agency or
instrumentality within the Borough without the permission of the property owner
and a permit from the [Designated Official] of the Borough of Portage.
   2.   Any person who violates an provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 216.   PLAY HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED AND AUTHORIZED.
   1.   The following areas upon the streets in the Borough are established as
play highways:
 
Street     Between Days Hours
(Reserved)
 
   2.   The [Designated Official] is authorized to designate as play highways,
whenever he deems that action _________________ advisable, and for whatever
period of time directed by him, any part of any street in the Borough where
sledding and coasting, shall be permitted. That play highway shall be set apart
for the purpose under the direction of the (Designated Official].
   3.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon any play highway at any
time when that street shall be designated as a play highway, except in case of
emergency, with special permission of the [Designated Official] or of the
police officer in charge, who shall first clear that play highway of all
persons using it for the purpose for which it was set aside. Any person who
violates any provision of this subsection shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 217.   SNOWMOBILE ROADS DESIGNATED.
   1.   The following roads and streets within the Borough are designated as
special snowmobile roads:
 
                       Used by Snowmobiles Only
Street or Road Between When Closed to Vehicular Shared With Vehicular Traffic
                       Traffic
(Reserved)
 
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile on any
highway, street or road in the Borough other than as provided above. Provided,
nothing in this Section shall prohibit any person from operating a snowmobile
on any other street in the Borough:
      A.   As authorized by § 7721 of the Vehicle Code for emergency and bridge
crossings and for direct crossing of streets or two-lane highways; or,
      B.   For special snowmobile events where authorized in advance and the
street is blocked off as provided in § 7723 of the Vehicle Code. Any person who
violates any provision of this Section shall be subject to the penalties
prescribed in § 7752(a) of the Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
PART 3
RESTRICTIONS ON SIZE, WEIGHT AND TYPE OF VEHICLE AND LOAD
§ 301.   VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED ON CERTAIN STREETS AND BRIDGES.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, it shall be unlawful for any person
or persons to drive any vehicle or combination having a gross weight in excess
of the maximum prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of street, as
the case may be:
 
Street or Bridge Between                          Maximum Gross Weight
Caldwell Avenue  Blair Street and Bedford Street  45 Tons
Conemaugh Avenue Cambria Street and Blair Street  48 Tons
Gillespie Avenue Blair Street and Bedford Street  7 Tons
Jefferson Avenue Cambria Street and Blair Street  4 Tons
Lee Street       Orange Street and State Route 53 7 Tons [Ord. 5-2004]
Sonman Avenue    Main Street and Cambria Street   7 Tons
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, and, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $150 plus $150 for each 500
pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable
weight, and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 5-2004, 8/2/2004, § 3)
§ 302.   RESTRICTIONS ON SIZE OF VEHICLES ON CERTAIN STREETS AND BRIDGES.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, it shall be unlawful for any person
to drive any vehicle or combina tion in violation of the size restrictions
prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of street:
 
Street or Bridge Between          Restrictions
Lee Street       N. RR & Route 53 10 Ton except local deliver ies
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, and, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $75 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 303.   RESTRICTIONS AS TO WEIGHT AND SIZE OF VEHICLES ON CERTAIN STREETS AND
BRIDGES.
   1.   By reason of hazardous traffic conditions and other safety factors, by
authority granted by § 4902(b) of the Vehicle Code, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive any vehicle or combination in violation of the restriction
prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of street.
 
Street or Bridge Between Restrictions
   (Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(b) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, and, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more
than $100 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 304.   TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than a
passenger car on any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Street Between
   (Reserved)
 
Provided: nothing in this Section shall prohibit any person from driving an
emergency vehicle on any of those streets or parts of streets, or from driving
on any of those streets or parts of streets a truck or other commercial vehicle
making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located along that street
or part of a street.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 4
GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 400.   PARKING OF VEHICLES.
Only vehicles with a current inspection sticker, license plate and registration
may be parked on Borough streets, alleys or other Borough property. Each day
that a vehicle remains parked in violation of this Section shall constitute a
separate offense. Any vehicle parked in violation of this Section may also be
subject to Part 8 of this Chapter concerning “Removal and Impoundment of
Illegally Parked Vehicles.”
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as added by Ord. 6-2002, 10/7/2002, § 1)
§ 401.   VEHICLES TO BE PARKED WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
Wherever a space is marked off on any street for the parking of an individual
vehicle, every vehicle parked there shall be parked wholly within the lines
bounding that space, and it shall be a violation of this Part for any person to
park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked otherwise.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 402.   PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
Parking shall be prohibited at all limes in the following locations:
Street Side Between
Street                Side  Between
Caldwell Avenue       South Farren Street to Railroad Tracks
Caldwell Avenue       North Bedford Street to Cunard Street
Cunard Street         East  Caldwell Avenue to Gillespie Avenue
Farren Street         East  Mountain Avenue to Caldwell Avenue
Farren Street         West  Johnson Avenue to Antmart, Inc., premises
Johnson Avenue        South Cambria Street to Main Street [Ord. 1-2007]
Main Street           West  Borough Line and Route 53 [Ord. 5-2004]
Mountain Avenue       Both  Prospect Street to Grant Street
Mountain Avenue       Both  Orchard Street to Prospect Street
North Railroad Avenue South Main Street and Lee Street [Ord. 5-2004]
North Railroad Avenue North Main Street and Pine Street [Ord. 5-2004]
Oak Street            West  Johnson Avenue to Jefferson Avenue
Orchard Street        West  Mountain Avenue to Caldwell Avenue
Unnamed Alley         Both  Cambria Avenue to Main Street
Unnamed Alley         Both  Sonman Avenue to Caldwell Avenue
Unnamed Alley         Both  Caldwell Avenue to South Railroad Street
Vine Street           East  Sonman Avenue to Gillespie Avenue
Vine Street           West  Gillespie Avenue to Caldwell Avenue
Webster Avenue        South Lee Street and 926 Webster Avenue [Ord. 5-2004]
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 3-2001, 5/7/2001; by Ord. 5-2004, 8/
2/2004, § 4; and by Ord. 1-2007, 2/5/2007)
§ 403.   PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS, CERTAIN DAYS AND HOURS.
Parking shall be prohibited in the following locations at all times on the days
and between the hours indicated in this Section, as follows:
 
Street         Side  Between                   Days Hours
Main Street                                         3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Webster Avenue North Lee Street to 926 Webster      12:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
                     Avenue                         [Ord. 5-2004]
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 5-2004, 8/2/2004, § 5)
§ 404.   PARKING OF TRUCKS, BUSES AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN
CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to allow to remain parked, on
any of the following streets or parts of streets, any vehicle other than a
passenger car (which shall not include any bus, motor home or passenger car
attached to a trailer of any kind):
 
Street Between
   (Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 405.   PARKING TIME LIMITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS, CERTAIN DAYS AND HOURS.
No person shall park a vehicle, or allow it to remain parked, for longer than
the time indicated, in any of the following locations, at any time on the days
and between the hours indicated:
 
Street Side Between Days Hours
   (Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 406.   SPECIAL PURPOSE PARKING ZONES ESTABLISHED; PARKING OTHERWISE
PROHIBITED.
   1.   The following are established as special purpose parking zones, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow it to remain
parked, in any such zone, except as specifically provided for that zone:
Street Side Location Authorized Purpose
Street                          Side  Location              Authorized Purpose
600 Branch St.                  East  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
900 Caldwell Ave.               North 2 zones [Ord. 7-2007] Handicapped Parking
1031 Caldwell Ave. [Ord. 1-     South 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
2022]
700 Farren St.                  West  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
700 Farren St.                  West  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
800 Farren St.                  East  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
900 Gillespie. Ave.             North 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
813 Jefferson Ave. [Ord. 4-     South 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
2020]
800 Johnson Ave. [Ord. 7- 2007] North 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
1106 Johnson Ave. [Ord. 2-      North 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
2011]
700 Main St.                    East  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
700 Mountain Ave. [Ord. 7-      North 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
2007]
616 Prospect [Ord. 5-2009]      West  1 zone                Handicapped Parking
800 Sonman Ave. [Ord. 7- 2007]  South 1 zone                Handicapped Parking
 
   2.   An initial, nonrefundable fee of $150 shall be paid to the Borough to
defray the costs of establishing any special purpose parking zone. No such zone
shall be established unless and until this fee is paid.
   3.   An annual fee of $10 shall be paid to the Borough to maintain the
special purpose parking zone.
   4.   Upon the failure to remit the $10 annual fee to the Borough, the
Borough may, at its discretion, eliminate the zone or space.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 10-2000, 11/6/2000; by Ord. 5-2001,
10/1/2001, §1; by Ord. 5-2004, 8/2/2004, §6; by Ord. 7-2007, 9/4/2007, §1; by
Ord. 2-2008, 11/3/2008, §1; by Ord. 5-2009, 7/6/2009; by Ord. 3-2010, 6/7/2010,
§§1, 2; by Ord. 2-2011, 4/4/2011, §1; by Ord. 3-2011, 7/18/2011, §1; by Ord. 3-
2012, 12/3/2012, §1; by Ord. 3-2018, 9/17/2018; by Ord. 4-2020, 9/8/2020; by
Ord. 5-2020, 11/16/2020; by Ord. 1-2021, 5/17/2021; by Ord. 4-2021, 7/19/2021;
by Ord. 1-2022, 3/21/2022; by Ord. 4-2022, 9/6/2022; and by Ord. 1-2023, 7/17/
2023)
§ 407.   STANDING OR PARKING ON ROADWAY FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle (other
than a pedalcycle) on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of any street, except that standing or parking for the purpose of
loading or unloading persons or property shall be permitted on the following
named streets on Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 11:30
a.m. and between the hours of 1:30 p.m. and 4 p.m., and for no longer than
necessary for the loading or unloading.
 
Street          Side  Between
Caldwell Avenue South Branch Street and Farren Street
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 408.   ANGLE PARKING REQUIRED ON PORTIONS OF CERTAIN STREETS.
   1.   Only angle parking shall be permitted on the following portions of
streets:
 
Street Side Between
   (Reserved)
 
   2.   On all streets where angle parking is required, every vehicle parked al
the angle shall be parked with its front nearest the curb.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 409.   PARKING PROHIBITED ON PORTIONS OF CERTAIN HIGHWAYS DURING STREET
SWEEPING HOURS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow the same to
remain parked, at any time between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. on any of the following
portions of the highways of the Borough on the days hereby respectively
designated for street sweeping purposes:
 
Street Between Day
   (Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 410.   RESIDENTIAL PERMIT PARKING.
   1.   Findings and Purpose. The Borough of Portage finds that:
      A.   Certain residential areas in the Borough are subjected to commuter
vehicle parking, therefore, depriving the residents of those areas of spaces in
which to park their own vehicles;
      B.   Those residential streets are also subjected to a high degree of
commuter traffic which substantially reduces the quality of the ambient air
level; and,
      C.   The establishment of a parking permit program for certain affected
areas should facilitate efficient movement of traffic by providing for parking
preference during certain hours of the day and days of the week. Therefore, the
Borough considers it to be in the interest of the people of the Borough to
provide for the establishment of a residential permit parking program to insure
primary access to available parking spaces by neighborhood residents and also
to provide a cleaner ambient air level.
   2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, words and terms listed in
this subsection, as follows, shall have the following meanings:
      COMMUTER VEHICLE - a mot or vehicle parked in a residential area by a
person not a resident of that residential area;
      PROPRIETOR - a person who owns or leases real estate within a residential
area of which he is not a resident, but who owns or manages a business
enterprise or professional office maintained at that address; for the purpose
of this Section, a proprietor shall be entitled to one parking permit for that
business or professional office address;
      RESIDENT - a person who owns or leases real property within a residential
area and who maintains either a voting residence, or bona fide occupancy, or
both, at that address;
      RESIDENTIAL AREA - a contiguous area containing public highways or parts
of public highways primarily abutted by residential properly or residential and
non-business property (such as schools, parks, places of worship, hospitals and
nursing homes).
   3.   Criteria. The residential areas designated in subsection (4) of this
Section are those deemed impacted and hence eligible for residential parking on
the basis of the following criteria:
      A.   During any period between the hours of 7 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., Monday
through Saturday, except legal holidays, the number of vehicles parked (or
standing), legally or illegally, on the streets in the area is equal to 70% or
more of the legal, on-street parking capacity of the area. For the purpose of
this criterion, a legal parking space shall be 20 linear feet.
      B.   During the same period as specified in subsection (A), directly
above, 10% or more of the vehicles parked (or standing) on the streets in the
area are not registered in the name of a person residing in the area For the
purpose of this criterion, the latest available information from the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles and Licensing of the Pennsylvania Department. of Transportation
regarding registration of motor vehicles shall be used.
Provided: in determining that a specific area identified as impacted and
eligible for residential permit parking is designated as a residential permit
parking area, the following factors are taken into consideration:
         (1)   The local and metropolitan needs with respect to clean air and
environment;
         (2)   The possibility of a reduction in total vehicle miles driven in
the Borough;
         (3)   The likelihood of alleviating traffic congestion, illegal
parking and related health and safety hazards;
         (4)   The proximity of public transportation to the residential area:
         (5)   The desire and need of the residents far residential permit
parking and their willingness to bear the administrative costs in connection
with it; and,
         (6)   The need for parking in excess of the residential permit parking
program in proximity to establishments located in the residential permit
parking area and used by the general public for religious, health or
educational purposes.
   4.   Designation of Residential Permit Parking Areas. The following are
designated as residential permit parking areas:
 
Area Bounded By And Including
   (Reserved)
 
Signs shall be erected along the streets in each residential permit parking
area, indicating the days, hours, locations and conditions under which parking
shall be by permit only.
   5.   Application for Permit. Application for a residential parking permit
shall be made to the Chief of Police by the person desiring the permit, who
shall be only the owner or the driver of a motor vehicle who resides on or is a
proprietor of property immediately adjacent to a street or other location
within a residential parking permit area. A separate application shall be
required for each motor vehicle, and each application shall be accompanied by a
permit fee, set pursuant to a resolution of the Borough Council, which shall be
for the use of the Borough, to be applied to the cost of administering the
residential permit parking program. Each application shall contain the
following information: the name of the owner or the driver, as the case may be,
of the motor vehicle; the address of the resident or the proprietor, as the
case may be; the make, model and registration number of the motor vehicle; and
the driver number as taken from the applicant's current drivers license. At the
discretion of the Chief of Police, the applicant shall be required, at the time
of making application, to present his driver's license and the vehicle
registration card.
   6.   Issuance of Permit. Upon receipt of the application and the permit fee,
and determination by him that the information upon the application shows that
the applicant is entitled o a residential parking permit, the Chief of Police
shall issue to the applicant a residential parking permit., which shall be
valid for the remainder of the calendar year. The permit shall display the
serial and registration numbers of the motor vehicles, the residential parking
area number, and the expiration date. The permit shall be renewable annually
before the expiration dale, upon making application for renewal and payment of
the permit lee. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Section for any
person to display of her than the current and valid permit while standing or
parking in a residential permit parking area at any time when those permits are
to be displayed.
   7.   Temporary and Exemption Parking Permits. Temporary parking permits may
be issued by the Chief of Police. upon payment of a fee established pursuant to
a resolution, to bona fide visitors of residents of a designated residential
permit parking area and exemption parking permits may be issued, without
payment of a fee, to handicapped persons.
   8.   Responsibility of Permit Holder.
      A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the contrary, the
holder of a residential parking permit shall be permitted to stand or park a
motor vehicle operated by him in any designated residential parking area during
those times when parking of motor vehicles is permitted in that area. While a
vehicle for which a residential parking permit has been issued is so parked,
that permit shall be displayed so as to be clearly visible through the
windshield of the vehicle. A residential parking permit shall not guarantee or
reserve to the holder a parking space within a designated residential permit
parking area.
      B.   A residential parking permit shall not authorize its holder to stand
or park a motor vehicle in any place where or at any time when stopping,
standing or parking of motor vehicles is prohibited or set aside for other
specified types of vehicles, nor shall the permit exempt its holder from the
observance of any traffic or parking regulation other than residential permit
parking regulation or restriction.
      C.   No person other than the permit holder whose name appears on the
permit shall use a residential parking permit or display it on a vehicle
operated; any such use or display by a person other than the permit holder
shall constitute a violation of this Section by the permit holder and by the
person who so used or displayed the parking permit.
      D.   It shall constitute a violation of this Section for any person
falsely to represent himself as eligible for a residential parking permit or to
furnish false information in an application to the Chief of Police in order to
obtain a residential parking permit.
         (1)   Revocation of Permits. The Chief of Police shall have authority
to revoke the residential parking permit of any permit holder found to be in
violation of any provision of this Section. Upon written notification to him of
the revocation, the permit holder shall surrender the permit to the Chief of
Police. Failure to do so, when so requested, shall constitute a violation of
this Section. Provided: any person receiving such a notice may, within 10 days
after the date or the notice, appeal to the Borough Council for a hearing on
the revocation, and the decision of the Borough Council shall be final.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 411.   PENALTIES.
Any person who violates any provision other than §
406 of this Part shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $15 plus
costs. If any fine imposed hereunder is not paid within 72 hours of the date of
the notice, the fine will then be double. If the fine is not paid within 7 days
of the date of the notice, an additional $5 will be added to the costs. Any
person who violates §
406 of this Part shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $300.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by 10-2000, 11/6/2000, § 3; by Ord. 5-2004,
8/2/2004, § 7; and by Ord. 4-2007, 3/5/2007, § 1)
§ 412.   PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS AND AVENUES FOR THE PURPOSE OF SNOW PLOWING
AND REMOVAL.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any motor vehicle to
park on the odd side of a street or avenue on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and
on the even side of a street or avenue on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. This
Section shall be effective each year for the months of November through March
from the hours of 7 a.m. until 7 p.m. (during snowfall) and will not be in
effect through the months of April through October.
   2.   The following roadways are excluded from the provisions of this
Section:
Street Between
Street            Between
Caldwell Ave.     Bedford St. to Borough Lane
Cunard St.        Caldwell Ave. to Gillespie Ave.
Farren Street     Caldwell Avenue and Mountain Avenue [Ord. 5-2004]
Farren Street     816 Farren Street and Johnson Avenue [Ord. 5-2004]
Gillespie Ave.    Cambria St. to Bridge
Jefferson Ave.    Cambria St. to Bridge
Lee St.           Railroad Ave., N. to Legion Ave.
Mountain Ave.     Orchard St. to Grant St.
Oak St.           Jefferson Ave. to Johnson Ave.
Orchard Street    Caldwell Avenue and Mountain Avenue [Ord. 5-2004]
Railroad Ave., N. Pine St. to Lee St.
Railroad Ave., S. Main St. to Leman Machine
Vine St.          Caldwell Ave. to Sonman Ave.
Washington Ave.   Lee St. to 918 Washington Ave.
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as added by Ord. 6-2001, 10/1/2001, § 1; and as amended
by Ord. 5- 2004, 8/2/2004, § 8)
PART 5
ON-STREET METERED PARKING
§ 501.   PARKING METER ZONE ESTABLISHED.
Parking meter zones are established upon and along certain streets in the
Borough as follows:
Street Between Rate Maximum Parking Time
Street           Between              Rate                 Maximum Parking Time
                 Main Street to Rex   $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Caldwell Avenue  Alley (South Side)   $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                                      $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Farren Street to     $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Caldwell Avenue  Branch Street (North $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                 Side Only)           $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Main Street to Rex   $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Conemaugh Avenue Alley (Both Sides)   $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                                      $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Main Street to Rex   $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Gillespie Avenue Alley (Both Sides)   $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                                      $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Main Street to Rex   $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Jefferson Avenue Alley (Both Sides)   $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                                      $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Johnson Avenue to    $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Main Street      South Railroad       $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                 Street (East Side    $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Only)
                 Mill Alley to Farren $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Mountain Avenue  Street (Both Sides)  $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                                      $0.25 per hour       2 hours
                 Main Street to Rex   $0.05 per 12 minutes 2 hours
Sonman Avenue    Alley (South Side    $0.10 per 24 minutes 2 hours
                 Only)                $0.25 per hour       2 hours
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 7-2007, 9/4/2007, §2; by Ord. 6-
2020, 12/14/2020; and by Ord. 3-2021, 7/19/2021)
§ 502.   DAYS AND HOURS PARKING METERS IN OPERATION AND PARKING TIME LIMITS
APPLY.
Parking meters shall be operated, by the deposit of a coin in the meter, as
prescribed by §
505, and the parking rates for specified lengths of time, as well as the
maximum parking times prescribed in §
501, shall apply at all times between the hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Provided,
however: the requirements of this Part as to parking time limit and as to
deposit of coins in meters shall not apply on Borough holidays.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 503.   PLACEMENT AND CHARACTERISTICS OF PARKING METERS.
Parking meters installed in the parking meter zones established by §
501 of this Part shall be placed upon the curb or sidewalk, and immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces described in §
504 of this Part. Each parking meter shall be placed or set so as to show that
the parking space adjacent to :hat meter is or is not legally occupied. Each
parking meter installed shall indicate by a proper legend the legal parking
time established by the Borough and when the adjacent space is occupied by a
vehicle, the parking meter shall indicate on and by its dial and pointer the
duration of the period of legal parking, and, on the expiration of that period,
shall indicate illegal parking or over-parking.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 504.   PARKED VEHICLES TO BE WHOLLY WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
Lines and/or markings shall be painted or placed upon the curb, sidewalk or
roadway adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of delineating the
parking space for which that meter shall be used. Every vehicle parked at any
parking meter shall be parked wholly within the lines or markings so placed and
applicable to that meter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for
any person to park a vehicle across any such line or marking, or to park a
vehicle in such a position that that vehicle is not wholly within the area
designated by these lines or markings.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 505.   COIN DEPOSIT IN METER; OVERTIME PARKING UNLAWFUL.
Whenever a vehicle is to be parked in any space adjacent to a parking meter, at
any time in the period of limited parking as prescribed by §
502 of this Part, the driver of the vehicle, upon entering the parking space,
shall immediately deposit, or cause to be deposited, in that parking meter, one
or more proper coins of the United States of America as specified in the legend
on the parking meter. Upon the deposit of the coin or coins, and placing the
meter in operation, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by the vehicle
for the time indicated on the meter. If any vehicle shall remain in any space
parking space for any length of time that the meter shall indicate by proper
signal that the lawful parking time has expired, that vehicle shall be
considered as having been parked overtime, and the parking of a vehicle
overtime shall be a violation of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 506.   UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT SUBSTITUTE FOR COIN IN METER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any parking meter installed
under the provisions of this Part any slug or other substitute for a coin of
the United States of America.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 507.   UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT COIN IN METER TO EXTEND PARKING TIME BEYOND LEGAL
LIMIT.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for any person to deposit or
cause to be deposited, in any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this Part, any coin for the purpose of increasing or extending the parking time
of any vehicle beyond the legal parking time of 15 minutes in any 15 minute
parking meter zone, 11/2 hour in any 1/2 hour parking meter zone, 1 hour in any
1 hour parking meter zone, or 2 hours in any 2 hour parking meter zone.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 508.   UNLAWFUL TO REMAIN PARKED AT METER SHOWING VIOLATION.
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to permit a
vehicle to remain in a parking space adjacent to a parking meter installed
under this Part, when that meter displays a signal indicating that the vehicle
has already been parked there beyond the period of time prescribed for that
parking space, or the time for which a coin or coins was deposited in that
meter for the parking of that vehicle.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 509.   UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH METER.
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to deface,
tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any
parking meter installed under the provisions of this Part. Provided: nothing in
this Section shall apply to the servicing or opening of parking meters by
officers, employees or police officers of the Borough under the direction of
the (Designated Official) or Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 510.   TICKETING OF VEHICLES PARKED UNLAWFULLY; EFFECT OF PAYMENT WITHIN 48
HOURS.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the polioe officers and parking enforcement
personnel of the Borough, acting in accordance with the directions of the Chief
of Police, to report;
      A.   The number of each parking meter that indicates that a vehicle
occupying the adjacent parking space is, or has been, parked in violation of
any provision of this Part;
      B.   The date and hour of the violation;
      C.   The license number of the vehicle;
      D.   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   2.   The police officer or other person making the report shall also place
on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that
the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part, and instructing the owner or
driver that if he will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay, for
the use of the Borough, the sum of $ ______ within ______ hours after the time
of the notice, or will place the sum of $ ______ enclosed within the envelope
provided, in any of the special parking fine boxes installed at various
locations within the Borough within the time limit, that act will save the
violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
511(1) of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 511.   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   1.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, with the exception
of §
509, and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
510, shall be cited within 15 days of the violation and upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $15 and costs.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of §
509 of this Part shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than 5600 and costs, and, in default of payment of fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 512.   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   By resolution, the Borough Council may temporarily suspend the
provisions of this Part by requiring coin deposit in meters and establishing a
maximum parking time at meters.
   2.   The Borough shall have authority to establish no parking or special-
purpose parking zones within any parking meter zone, and to remove parking
meters from those areas as previously installed there, and the provisions of
this Part shall not apply in those areas where no parking or special-purpose
parking are in effect.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 6
OFF-STREET METERED PARKING
§ 601.   METERED PARKING LOTS ESTABLISHED.
The following are established as the metered parking lots established by this
Borough:
 
Lot          Location       Rate Maximum Parking Days In     Hours in
                                 Time            Operation   Operation
Branch Alley Behind Borough $.25 12 hours        Mon. - Fri. 9 am. to 6 p.m.
             building
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 602.   PLACEMENT AND CHARACTERISTICS OF PARKING METERS.
Parking meters installed in the parking lots shall be placed immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces that shall be marked off and
maintained in the lots. For each parking meter there shall be a clear
indication, through use of a directional arrow, or an identification as to
number with the parking space, to show which individual parking space it
serves. Each parking meter shall indicate by a proper legend the parking rate
and the maximum parking time established by §
601 of this Part, and, when the parking space is occupied and the parking meter
put into operation by the insertion of one r more coins, the parking meter
shall indicate on and by its dial and pointer the duration of legal parking,
and, upon the expiration of that period, shall indicate illegal parking or
over-parking.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 603.   RESERVED PARKING SPACES FOR HANDICAPPED MAY BE PROVIDED.
The Borough Council, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and suitable
locations in any one or more of the metered parking lots, reserved parking
spaces for handicapped, and shall designate those spaces by appropriate signs.
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to park in
any such reserved parking space, any vehicle unless that vehicle bears or
displays either: a "handicapped registration plate;' a "handicapped parking
placard," a "disabled veteran registration plate" or a "disabled veteran
placard".
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 604.   PARKED VEHICLES TO BE WHOLLY WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
Lines and/or markings shall be painted or placed upon the surface of the
metered parking lots, adjacent to each parking meter, for the purpose of
delineating the parking space for which that meter shall be used. Every vehicle
parked adjacent to any parking meter shall be parked wholly within the lines or
markings so placed and applicable to that meter. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this Part for any person:
      A.   To park a vehicle across any such line or marking; or,
      B.   To park a vehicle in such a position that the vehicle shall not be
within the area so delineated by the lines or markings;
      C.   To park a vehicle elsewhere in any such lot that in an individual
parking space adjacent to a parking meter.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 605.   MANNER OF PARKING AT METERS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any metered parking
lot:
      A.   Otherwise than with the front of the parked vehicle nearest to the
parking meter applicable to that vehicle; or,
      B.   With any part of the vehicle touching the meter post or head or the
raised base or barrier on which meters are erected.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 606.   COIN DEPOSIT IN METER; OVERTIME PARKING UNLAWFUL.
Whenever a vehicle is to be parked in any metered parking lot, at any time when
the lot is open for use and the meters are to be in operation, the driver of
the vehicle, upon entering the parking space, shall immediately deposit, or
cause to be deposited, in the proper parking meter, one or more proper coins,
of the United States of America as specified in the legend on the parking
meter. Upon the deposit of the coin or coins, and placing the meter in
operation, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by the vehicle for the
time indicated on the meter. If any vehicle remains in any such parking space
for such length of time that the meter indicates that the lawful parking time
has expired, that vehicle shall be considered as being parked overtime, and the
parking of a vehicle overtime shall be a violation of this Part. Provided:
every hour that a vehicle remains parked at a meter showing a violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 607.   UNLAWFUL. TO DEPOSIT SUBSTITUTE FOR COIN IN METER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any parking meter installed
under the provisions of this Part any slug or other substitute for a coin of
the United States of America.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 608.   UNLAWFUL TO REMAIN PARKED AT A METER SHOWING VIOLATION.
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to permit a
vehicle to remain in a parking space adjacent to a parking meter installed
under this Part, when that meter displays a signal indicating that the vehicle
has already been parked there beyond the period of time prescribed for that
parking space, or the time for which a coin or coins was deposited in that
meter for the parking of that vehicle.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 609.   UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH METER.
It shall he unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to deface,
tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any
parking meter installed under the provisions of this Part. Provided: nothing in
this Section shall apply to the servicing or opening of parking meters by
officers, employees or police officers of the Borough under the direction of
the !Designated Official! or Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999;
§ 610.   METERED PARKING LOTS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES ONLY.
The metered parking lots established by this Part shall be for the use of
passenger cars, passenger vans and pickup trucks only, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to park any other type of vehicle in any of those lots.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 611.   TICKETING OF VEHICLES PARKED UNLAWFULLY; EFFECT OF PAYMENT WITHIN 48
HOURS.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the police officers and parking enforcement
personnel of the Borough acting in accordance with the direction of the Chief
of Police, to report:
      A.   The number of each parking meter that indicates that a vehicle
occupying the adjacent parking space is, or has been, parked in violation of
any provision of this Part:
      B.   The date and hour of the violation;
      C.   The license number of the vehicle;
      D.   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   2.   The police officer or other person making the report shall also place
on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that
the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part, and instructing the owner or
driver that if he will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay, for
the use of the Borough, the sum of $ _______ within _______hours after the time
of the notice, or will place the sum of $ _______ enclosed within the envelope
provided, in any of the special parking fine boxes installed at various
locations within the Borough, within that time limit, that act will save the
violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
612(1) of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 612.   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   1.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, with the exception
of §
609, and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
611, shall be cited within 15 days of the violation and upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $15 and costs.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of §
609 of this Part shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $600 and costs, and, in default of payment of fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 7
OFF-STREET UNMETERED PARKING
§ 701.   ESTABLISHMENT.
The Borough of Portage hereby establishes the parking lot located behind the
Municipal Building along Branch Street and Central Alley as an unmetered
parking lot operated by the Borough of Portage with the following types of
rental spaces available. This Part shall not affect the parking area dedicated
to the Portage Volunteer Fire Company by other ordinance.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5 /1999)
§ 702.   FREE PARKING HOURS.
Vehicles are allowed to park in spaces not rented by a business or a resident
for a maximum of 2 hours from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 703.   RESERVED PARKING SPACES FOR BUSINESS USE.
Businesses may rent spaces for use by customers for $5.00 per month. The
business must erect a sign, approved by the Borough, on each rented spaced
stating "Parking for Customers Only" and giving the name of their
establishment.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 704.   PARKING PERMITS FOR RESIDENTS.
Residents who live along Branch Street or Central Alley may purchase a parking
permit for $5.00 per month and must display a permit sticker on their vehicle.
The Borough will assign their parking space and the resident must erect a sign,
approved by the Borough, stating "Rented Parking Space."
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 705.   SPECIAL EVENT PARKING PERMITS.
A business or organization may purchase a special event permit for $2.00 per
space, per event, per day. Ropes and or cones may be used to designate the
special event parking spaces.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 1-2017, 4/17/2017)
§ 706.   NO PARKING OR SPECIAL PURPOSE PARKING ZONES WITHIN THE UNMETERED
PARKING LOT.
The Borough of Portage shall have authority to establish no parking or special
purpose parking zones within this area, and the provisions of this Part shall
not apply in those areas where no parking or special purpose parking are in
effect.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 707.   UNMETERED LOT FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
The unmetered parking lot established by this Part shall be for the use of
passenger cars, passenger vans and pick up trucks only, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any other kind or class of vehicle in this lot.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 708.   MANNER OF PARKING.
Every vehicle parking in an unmetered parking space shall be parked headed into
the parking space. It shall be unlawful for any person:
      A.   To park a vehicle in a space not rented by him.
      B.   To park a vehicle otherwise than as required by this Section.
      C.   To park a vehicle elsewhere than in an individual parking space, the
prohibited area including, but not limited to, the access and exit driveways
and turning and maneuvering spaces.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 709.   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   1.   The police officer or other person making the report shall also place
on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that
the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part, and instructing the owner or
driver that if he will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay for
the use of Portage Borough, the sum of $15.00 within 72 hours after the time of
the notice, or will place the sum of $15.00 enclosed within the envelope
provided in the fine box installed on the door of the Police Station located at
721 Main Street, Portage, Pennsylvania, within that time limit, that act will
save the violator from prosecution.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part and who fails to pay
the fine set forth in this Part shall be cited within 15 days of the violation
and upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine plus costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 8
REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
§ 801.   APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
This Part is enacted under authority of § 6109(a-22) of the Vehicle Code, and
gives authority to the Borough to remove and impound those vehicles which are
parked in a tow-away zone and in violation of parking regulations of this
Chapter. Vehicles which have been abandoned (as defined by the Vehicle Code) or
which are parked in such a manner as to interfere with traffic or pose a hazard
to others, may be towed under the provisions of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 802.   AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
The Borough of Portage shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order
the removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise
illegally, provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the
conditions stated in §
801 of this Part. Provided: no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded
except in strict adherence to the provisions of this Part, or the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 803.   TOW AWAY ZONES DESIGNATED.
The following designated streets and/or parking lots are hereby established as
tow-away zones. Signs shall be posted to place the public on notice that their
vehicles may be towed for violation of the Borough parking regulations:
 
Street     Side Between Parking Lot
(Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 804.   DESIGNATION OF APPROVED STORAGE GARAGES; BONDING; TOWING AND STORAGE.
Removal and impounding of vehicles under this Part shall be done only by
"approved storage garages" that shall be designated from time to time by the
Borough Council. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the Borough Council
that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount satisfactory
to the Borough Council as sufficient to indemnify owners of impounded vehicles
against loss or damage to those vehicles while in the custody of the garage
keeper for the purpose of towing or storage. The approved storage garage shall
submit to the Borough Council its schedule of charges for towing and storage of
vehicles under this Part, and, when the schedule is approved by Borough
Council, those charges shall be adhered to by the approved storage garage; no
different schedule of charges shall be demanded of or oollected from any person
whose vehicle is removed or impounded under this Part by any approved storage
garage. The Borough Council shall delete from its list of approved storage
garages any garage that makes any unapproved charge in connection with any
vehicle removed or impounded under this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 805.   PAYMENT OF TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or driver
of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation of the
provision of this Part for which the vehicle was removed or impounded.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 806.   RECLAMATION COSTS.
In order to reclaim his vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and storage costs,
plus a $25 fee of which $10 shall be transferred to the Pennsylvania Department
of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle was taken.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 807.   RECORDS OF VEHICLES REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
The Borough shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this Part and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or
the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place of
storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 808.   RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this Part or the Vehicle
Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person for the
time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and
intention to remove the vehicle immediately
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 809.   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Arty person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 together with all costs of disposing
of the vehicle under provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. § 7301 et seq.,
(1977) as hereafter amended, supple mented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 810.   REPORTS AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
If after a period of 15 days the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed, a report
shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of The Vehicle Code, by
the person having legal custody of the vehicle. If the vehicle has not been
claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be transferred to a licensed Salvor who
will then be responsible for filing the proper reports and disposing of the
vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 73 of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa C.S.A. § 101 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 9
SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY
§ 901.   DECLARATION OF SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY.
In order to implement the basic operations and procedures as outlined in the
Borough of Portage Emergency Operations plan and/or facilitate the movement of
traffic and to combat the hazards of snow and ice on the snow emergency routes
named in §
903 of this Part, the Mayor, or in his/her absence, the President of Council,
may declare a snow and ice emergency (designated in this Part, as a "snow
emergency"). Information on the existence of a snow emergency shall be given by
the Borough through radio, newspaper or other available media, and Information
on the termination of the emergency may be given by use of the same media.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 6-2001, 10/1/2001, § 2)
§ 902.   PARKING PROHIBITED, DRIVING MOTOR VEHICLES RESTRICTED ON SNOW
EMERGENCY ROUTES DURING EMERGENCY.
After any snow emergency is declared, it shall be unlawful, at any time during
the oontinuance of the emergency, for any person:
      A.   To park a motor vehicle or to allow that vehicle to remain parked
anywhere on any snow emergency route designated in §
903 of this Part; or,
      B.   To drive any motor vehiole on any such snow emergency route, unless
diat vehicle is equipped with snow tires or chains.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 903.   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES DESIGNATED.
The following are designated as snow emergency routes:
 
Street     Between
(Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999)
§ 904.   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   1.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under §
901 of this Part. a person shall park a motor vehicle or allow a motor vehicle
to remain parked anywhere upon a snow emergency route, that person shall be
guilty of a violation of this Part, and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than $15 and toss.
   2.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency decnared under §
901 of this Part, a person shall drive a moor vehicle upon a snow emergency
route, without having that vehicle equipped wth snow tires or chains, that
person shall be guilty of a violation of this Part, and, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999 and amended by Ord. 6-2001 10/1/2001, § 4)
PART 10
REGULATION OF PEDALCYCLES AND NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES
§ 1001.      RIDING AND PARKING OF PEDALCYCLES ON SIDEWALKS ALONG CERTAIN
STREETS PROHIBITED.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or to park a pedalcycle on
the sidewalk along the following portions of the streets in the Borough:
 
Street     Side Between
(Reserved)
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of 55 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1002.    RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUSHCARTS.
   1.   The word "pushcart," as used in this Section, shall mean a vehicle,
including a pedalcycle, propelled solely by human power, and used or intended
for use for the display, transport, exhibit or sale of goods, wares or
merchandise.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to propel a pushcart upon any
sidewalk in any business district except as necessary to move the pushcart to a
location from which it is to be loaded or unloaded or from which goods, wares
or merchandise are to be sold or dispensed under permit from the Borough
Council as provided :n subsection (3) of this Section.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a pushcart upon any
sidewalk except for the purpose of selling or dispensing from that pushcart
goods, wares or merchandise to passersby under permit from the Borough Council.
Every such permit shall be issued to the person making application for the
permit, upon payment of a fee, which shall be for the use of the Borough set by
the Borough Council pursuant to a resolution. The permit shall be granted to
the applicant, upon payment of the fee, and upon his signing an agreement with
the Borough Council that he shall be bound by the conditions imposed by Borough
Council and made a part of the permit, dealing with the following matters:
      A.   Restricting or limiting the parking of the pushcart to one or more
stated locations upon the sidewalk and to stated days and hours at each
location;
      B.   Stating requirements to be adhered to in connection with the
disposal of garbage and refuse resulting from the operations carried on;
      C.   Requiring that there be no violation of any law, ordinance or
regulation pertaining to health, sanitation and the handling of food or drink.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section, or any condition
of any permit granted under this Section, shall be guilty of a summary offense,
and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1003.    SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, COASTERS, SLEDS AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on a sled upon any sidewalk
in the Borough, or upon any roadway unless that roadway is on a portion of a
street blocked off for sledding by authority of §
105 of Part 1 or §
216 of Part 2 of this Chapter. Provided: nothing in this subsection shall
prevent a pedestrian from pulling a sled, with or without a rider, upon a
sidewalk.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in roller-skating,
skateboarding or to ride upon or propel any coaster or other toy vehicle upon:
      A.   Any street except in order to cross the roadway; or,
      B.   Any sidewalk located in a business district, except that nothing in
this subsection shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a coaster or other toy
vehicle, with or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 11
PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS
§ 1101.    PEDESTRIANS TO OBEY TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
At all locations in the Borough where official traffic-control signals are
installed, pedestrians, except where directed otherwise by pedestrian-control
signals installed under §
1102 of this Part, shall obey the directions of those traffic-control signals,
as follows:
      A.   When facing a green signal, a pedestrian may proceed across the
roadway within a crosswalk;
      B.   When facing a steady yellow signal, a pedestrian shall not start to
cross the roadway;
      C.   When facing a steady red signal, a pedestrian shall not enter the
roadway (Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1102.    PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNAL LOCATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   1.   At the following locations, official pedestrian-control signals shall
be erected (or are ratified if previously erected):
 
Location
(Reserved)
 
   2.   Every pedestrian facing a steady or flashing "Don't Walk" signal shall
obey the directions of that signal, as follows:
      A.   When facing a steady "Don't Walk' signal, a pedestrian shall not
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian
who has partially completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal should proceed to
a sidewalk or safety zone while the "Don't Walk" signal is showing.
      B.   When facing a flashing "Don't Walk" signal a pedestrian shall not
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the indication, but any
pedestrian who has partly completed crossing during the "Walk" indication
should proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone.
Any pedestrian who fails to obey the directions of a "Don't Walk" signal, as
indicated above, shall be guilty of an offense and a violation of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1103.    LOCATIONS WHERE PEDESTRIAN CROSSING IN UNMARKED CROSS WALKS
RESTRICTED.
Except when authorized by a police officer or other appropriately attired
person authorized to direct, control or regulate traffic, it shall be unlawful
for any pedestrian to cross the roadway at any of the following streets, at the
intersection with that street indicated.
 
Street     Intersection Direction of Travel
(Reserved)
 
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1104.    LOCATIONS WHERE PEDESTRIANS MAY CROSS ONLY IN CROSSWALK. It shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian:
      A.   To cross any roadway in a business district within the Borough
except in a crosswalk;
      B.   To cross the roadway, in any of the following portions of streets in
the Borough, except in a crosswalk:
 
Street     Between
(Reserved)
 
Provided: nothing in this Section shall permit any pedestrian to cross in a
crosswalk at any location where that crossing is prohibited by §
1102 of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 1105.    PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Any pedestrian who violates any provision of this Part shall he guilty of a
summary offense, and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $5
and costs.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
CHAPTER 16
PARKS AND RECREATION
(See
Chapter 1, "Administration and Government," Part 1C, "Recreation Commission")
PART 1
CRICHTON-MCCORMICK PARK
   §
101.   Rules and Regulations
   §
102.   Penalties
PART 1
CRICHTON-MCCORMICK PARK
§ 101.   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The following rules and regulations are hereby established for the protection
of Crichton- McCormick Park, owned by the Borough of Portage and located in
said Borough, hereinafter designated “the park”:
      A.   The park shall be closed to the public from the hours of 11:00 p.m.
to 5:00 a.m. [Ord. 4-1980]
      B.   No person shall injure, deface, remove, cut or damage any of the
trees, plants, shrubs, turf, buildings, structures or fixtures therein, or any
other property of the Borough located within the park.
      C.   No person shall conduct himself within the park so as to annoy any
other person using the park for recreational purposes.
      D.   No person shall set up any booth, table or stand for the sale of any
article whatsoever within the limits of the park without the consent of the
Borough, which shall have authority to refuse such consent in any instance.
      E.   No person shall dispose of any waste or garbage in the park except
in receptacles designed for the respective purpose. All persons using the park
shall dispose of all waste and garbage left by them in such proper receptacles.
      F.   No person shall injure, deface or destroy any notice, rule or
regulation posted at any place within the park by authority of the Borough or
any other authority of the Borough. Nor shall any person post, at any place
within the park, any notice or placard other than by authority of the Borough.
      G.   No person shall set or maintain any fire in the park except in
charcoal grills or stoves; or in fireplaces maintained for that purpose and
located by the authority of the Borough.
      H.   No person shall bring or consume any spirituous liquor, wine, malt
or brewed beverages in the park.
      I.   [Reserved]. [Ord. 1-2010]
      J.   No person shall wash, wax or polish any motor vehicle in the park.
      K.   No owner, custodian or keeper of an animal shall allow such animal
to run at large at any time within the park, unless accompanied by and under
the immediate control of such owner, custodian or keeper.
(Ord. 289, 9/8/1970, § 1; as amended by Ord. 4-1980, 7/7/1980, §A; and by Ord.
1-2010, 5/5/2010)
§ 102.   PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed
$600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   2.   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Borough may recover
penalties, damages, costs, reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court
reporter's fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suite at law
against the person or user found to have violated this Part.
(Ord. 289, 9/8/1970, § 2; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
CHAPTER 17
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 18
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
PART 1
SEWER CONNECTIONS
   §
101.   Connection Required
   §
102.   Other Disposal Methods Prohibited
   §
103.   Notice to Connect
   §
104.   Prohibited Connections; Privies
   §
105.   Prohibited Connections; Drains
   §
106.   Conditions for Connections
   §
107.   Specifications
   §
108.   Separate Connection Required
   §
109.   Industrial Waste Discharges; Application; Issuance of Permit
   §
110.   Prohibited Discharges
   §
111.   Borough May Do Work; Collection of Costs
   §
112.   Penalties
PART 2
LATERAL TESTING
   §
201.   Title
   §
202.   Definitions
   §
203.   Unlawful Connections
   §
204.   Repair of Private Sewer Facilities
   §
205.   Lateral Testing
   §
206.   Notices to Property Owners
   §
207.   Proof of Compliance on Sale or Transfer
   §
208.   Application for Certificate of Compliance
   §
209.   Issuance of Certificate of Compliance
   §
210.   Temporary Certificate of Compliance
   §
211.   Municipal Lien and Tax Verification Letters
   §
212.   Expiration of Certificate of Compliance
   §
213.   Regulations
   §
214.   Conflict with General Police Powers
   §
215.   Penalties
PART 1
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 101. CONNECTION REQUIRED.
Every owner of property in the Borough of Portage whose property abuts upon any
public sanitary sewer presently constructed or to be constructed in the future
by Portage Area Sewer Authority (hereinafter called the "Authority"), shall
connect, at his own cost, the house, building or other structures located on
said property with the aforementioned public sanitary sewers for the purpose of
disposing of all sanitary sewage as is customarily disposed of in such a system
of sanitary sewers.
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 1)
§ 102. OTHER DISPOSAL METHODS PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupier of any property in the
Borough abutting on any line of the public sanitary sewer to employ any means,
either by septic tank, cesspool, privy vault, mine hole or otherwise, for the
disposal of sanitary sewage other than into and through said public sanitary
sewers.
(Ord. 6-1996, 42/2/1996, § 2)
§ 103. NOTICE TO CONNECT.
Where any structure in the Borough is now or hereafter may be using any method
for the disposal of sanitary sewage other than through said public sanitary
sewer, it shall be the duty of the Authority Secretary or other person
authorized by the Authority to notify the owner, lessee or occupier of said
structure in writing, either by personal service, certified mail or registered
mail, to disconnect the same and make proper connections for the discharge and
disposal of the sewage through the said public sanitary sewers, as herein
provided, within 60 days after receiving such notice; provided, however,
notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, no owner, lessee or
occupier of such structure shall be required to make a connection where his
structure is more than 150 feet from said public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 6-1995, 12/2/1996, § 3)
§ 104. PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS; PRIVIES.
No privy vault, cesspool, septic tank, mine hole or similar receptacle for
human excrement shall at any time, now or hereafter, be connected with the
aforesaid public sanitary sewers.
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 4)
§ 105.   PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS; DRAINS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation connected to the
aforementioned public sanitary sewers to connect any roof drain thereto or
permit any roof drain to remain connected thereto, or to permit, allow or cause
to enter into said public sanitary sewer any stormwater, foundation drain
water, spring water or surface water or any sewage from any property other than
that for which a permit is issued.
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 5)
§ 106.   CONDITIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
No person. firm or corporation shall make or cause to be made any connection
with any of the aforementioned public sanitary sewers or shall make or cause to
be made any alteration, renovation or modification of an existing sanitary
connection or appurtenance until he has fulfilled all of the following
conditions:
      A.   He shall make application to the Portage Area Sewer Authority upon a
permit form to be formulated and supplied by the Portage Area Sewer Authority
for permission to connect to the aforementioned public sanitary sewers. Among
other things, the applicant must state the character and use of each structure
located upon the property.
      B.   The applicant shall pay a tap fee or connection charge and shall pay
or receive verification by the Authority that frontage assessment for the
property, if any, has been paid in the amount specified by resolution by the
Board of Directors of the Authority and kept on file at the Authority office at
the time of making application for any permit.
      C.   No work shall commence before the payment of the tap fee and the
proper issuance of the permit has been completed.
      D.   The applicant shall notify the Portage Area Sewer Authority 5 days
prior to the tentative date that the service lateral is to be installed to the
collector line. The applicant shall again notify the Authority a minimum of 24
hours, during normal working hours of the office of the Authority, prior to the
time that the line will be ready for the tap connection. During the 5 day
period, the applicant shall advise the Authority of any change to the tentative
date that the work is to be completed due to construction scheduling, inclement
weather or other reasons. It is the responsibility of the property owner to
install the service lateral to the Authority collector line for tap. The actual
connection to the main shall be made by the Authority.
      E.   At the time of the connection of the service lateral to the main
collector line by the Authority or at other times agreed upon by the owners of
the property and the Authority, the designated inspector or Authority Engineer
shall be given complete access to all sanitary and drainage arrangements and
facilities in each building and in and about all parts of the property. No
building sewer or service lateral shall be covered over, or in any manner
concealed, until after it is inspected and approved by said inspector.
(Ord. 6-1996,12/2/1996, § 6)
§ 107.   SPECIFICATIONS.
The construction of all building sewers or service laterals shall be completed
in accordance with the following specifications:
      A.   Definitions.
         BUILDING SEWER - that part of the sewer from the connection to the
building drains from the building to the property line.
         SERVICE LATERAL - that part of the sewer from the property line to the
connection with the main sewer.
      B.   All building sewers and service laterals hereafter installed shall
be constructed of 6 inch diameter pine (or larger size where required) laid on
a minimum slope of 1/4 inch per foot.
      C.   Pipe material is required to be polyvinyl chloride pipe SDR 35 or
other material that is approved by the Authority and the Authority Engineer.
All such pipe must meet applicable ASTM or ASA specifications for conditions
encountered during installation. All joints between sections of pipe shall be
permanently sealed, water tight and gas tight.
      D.   All pipe in building sewers and service laterals shall be
constructed with a minimum of 4 inches of compacted 2A aggregate, as defined by
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Specification 408, under such pipe.
In areas where the building sewer or service lateral passes under any driveway
or improved portion of a roadway or shoulder the 2A aggregate shall be placed
over the pipe, compacted in 4 inch lifts up to subgrade. In other areas other
2A aggregate shall be compacted in 4 inch lifts to a depth of 12 inches over
the top of the pipe. The remaining depth of the trench in these areas may be
backfilled with suitable earth material in 6 inch lifts. All pipe must have at
least 30 inches of cover.
      E.   All new house laterals will require the installation of a 6 inch
riser pipe (clean-out) of the same materials as the building sewer and service
lateral with a removable watertight cap brought to grade, either existing or
proposed. This riser pipe is to be installed at the property line.
      F.   Building sewers shall be laid on a straight line grade from the
building connection to the riser pipe connection. Due to irregularities in
existing or proposed surface contours a change in grade may be necessary. In
this event, a clean-out shall be placed at the change n grade in the pipe or at
intervals of not more than 100 feet.
      G.   Each building sewer or drain must have an approved clean-out trap,
either just outside or inside the foundation wall.
      H.   Outside venting shall be provided where interior venting is not
adequate.
      I.   When the service lateral, from the property line to the Authority's
main collector line, is installed through an improved street or improved
surface, the applicant is responsible for making application for and obtaining
a street opening permit. It is the responsibility of the applicant to restore
the street in accordance with specifications.
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 7)
§ 108.   SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
Unless written permission is obtained from the Authority, separate connections
will be required for each individual occupied building whether constructed as a
detached unit or as one of a pair or row, but a single connection will be
permitted to serve a school, factory, apartment house or other permanent
multiple unit, structure whose individual apartments or units may not be
subject to separate ownership. The Authority assumes no obligation or
responsible caused by or resulting from any permitted single connections
aforementioned.
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 8)
§ 109.   INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGES; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   1.   The discharge of industrial wastes into the sewer system without the
prior written consent of the Authority is hereby prohibited.
   2.   Any industrial establishment desiring to discharge industrial wastes
into the sewer system shall make application to the Authority for a permit
therefore. The application for such permit shall furnish the Authority with
such information as is required for the purpose of determining whether the
proposed discharge of industrial wastes will conform with the requirements of
this Part. The granting of such permit may be made contingent upon the
applicant providing and maintaining, at the expense of the applicant, apparatus
for regulating the rate of discharge and/or pretreating such wastes prior to
discharge and for the proper sampling thereof, from time to time, as the
Authority or its agents or assigns may deem necessary
(Ord. 6-1996, 12/2/1996, § 9)
§ 110.   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   1.   No cellar seepage, french drain, oils, tars, grease, gasoline,
combustible gases or liquids, garbage or insoluble solids or any substance that
would impair or interfere with the sewer system or any part thereof in any
manner, or with the function of the processes of sewage treatment shall be
discharged into the sewer system.
   2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewer
system any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, hay, shavings, metal, glass,
scrap, rags, feathers, plastics, woods or any viscous substance capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewer system or the processes of sewage treatment.
   3.   All sewage discharged into the sewer system shall meet the following
requirements:
      A.   The 5 day biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) shall not exceed 400
parts per million by weight (p.p.m.).
      B.   The suspended solids (S.S.) shall not exceed 400 park per million by
weight (p.p.m.).
      C.   The total other soluble grease (grease, fats or oils) shall not
exceed 100 parts per million by weight (p.p.m.).
      D.   The sewage shall be free of any corrosive, volatile, suffocating,
inflammable or explosive liquids, solids, vapor or gas, such as gasoline,
benzene, naptha or fuel oil.
      E.   The sewage shall be free of unshredded garbage.
      F.   The use of garbage grinders is restrict to single-family residences
or their equivalent in number of persons housed. Grinders are specifically
prohibited in hotels, restaurants, clubs, dormitories, boarding house of more
than seven rooms, apartment houses except where installed in individual
apartments; and, in retail or wholesale food stores or any similar establishes
where food is processed or prepared for group feeding larger than single-family
units.
      G.   The pH (hydrogen ion concentration) of the sewage shall be between
4.5 and 9.0.
      H.   The sewage shall be free of toxic or poisonous substances in
quantities sufficient to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
stream of the sewage treatment plant.
(Ord. 6-1996 12/2/1996, § 10)
§ 111.   BOROUGH MAY DO WORK; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
If the owner or owners of any occupied building or buildings in the Borough
shall neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this Part or the
written notice as prescribed in §
103, hereof, the Authority may perform or cause to be performed such work and
labor, and furnish or cause to be furnished such material as may be necessary
to comply with the provisions of this Part at the cost and expense of such
owner or owners together with 10% addition thereof, and al charges and expenses
incident thereto, which sum shall be collected from said owner or owners for
the use of the Borough as debts are by law collectible, or the said Authority
may, by its proper officer or agent. file a municipal claim or lien therefor
against said premises as provided by law.
(Ord. 6-1996 12/2/1996, §I1)
§ 112.   PENALTIES.
In additions to any penalty heroinabove prescribed, any person, firm or
corporation failing to make a proper connection within 60 days after receipt of
notice as provided hereunder shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than $5,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of
said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6-1996 12/2/1996, § 12; as amended by Ord. 3-1999 4/5/1999; and by Ord.
5-2000 2/7/2000)
PART 2
LATERAL TESTING
§ 201.   TITLE.
This Part shall be titled and may be referenced as the "Lateral Testing
Ordinance."
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 1)
§ 202.   DEFINITIONS.
   APPLICANT - a person applying for a certificate of compliance or temporary
certificate of compliance.
   CASH SECURITY - cash, certified check or treasurer's check.
   IMPROVED AND SEWERED REAL PROPERTY - real property on which any building,
driveway or parking pad, other surface or subsurface structure or improvement
has been constructed, installed or erected, where the real property or any
improvement on the real property is connected to the sanitary sewer system.
   LATERAL TESTING - includes pressure testing requirements as provided for in
Section 312 of the International Plumbing Code (IPC) as contained in the
Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, as from time to time amended.
   ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE OFFICER - the Borough's authorized representative
appointed by the Council, from time to lime, by resolution, whose duty it shall
be to administer this Part.
   PERSON - any natural person, association, partnership, corporation,
syndicate, institution, agency, authority or other entity recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties
   SALE OR TRANSFER - the sale, transfer or assignment of any interest in
improved and sewered real property, provided, however, that a refinancing of
real property, without a conveyance, is not a sale or transfer under this Part.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM - the sanitary sewer lines and facilities maintained
and operated by the Portage Area Sewer Authority, its assigns or designees.
   SERVICE LATERAL - that portion of an individual lateral owned by the Portage
Area Sewer Authority.
   STORM WATER - surface water and ground water, including but not limited to
roof and driveway drainage, basement seepage, trench drains, water entered
through broken or leaking pipes.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 2)
§ 203.   UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any rain leader, roof drain,
downspout, gutter, parking lot drain, driveway drain, garage drains, interior
or exterior sump, french drain, spring or other collector or source of surface
storm water, including but not limited to the fresh air vent of the improved
and sewered real property's sanitary sewer, to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 3)
§ 204.   REPAIR OF PRIVATE SEWER FACILITIES.
Persons owning property within the Borough of Portage are required to maintain
all private sanitary sewer laterals and sanitary sewer service connections in
good repair.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 4)
§ 205.   LATERAL TESTING.
   1.   Lateral testing of all underground sanitary piping shall be required
upon the sale or transfer of any improved and sewered real property.
   2.   Following sanitary sewer system construction in the Borough which
provides the property owner with a new lateral at their property line, the
following lateral testing requirements shall apply:
      A.   The property owner shall perform a pressure test of all underground
sanitary piping from the viewport at the property line to directly outside the
building foundation wall. In order to pass the lateral testing, the underground
sanitary piping must be capable of holding 5 pounds of pressure for 15 minutes.
The property owner shall be responsible for all costs associated with the said
lateral testing.
      B.   An authorized employee shall be on site during the lateral testing.
A certificate of compliance shall be filled out and signed by the property
owner if the underground sanitary piping passes lateral testing. Privately
owned storm water piping that is conveyed to the public storm water system is
exempt from these lateral testing requirements.
      C.   Property owners observed by the Ordinance Compliance Officer to be
in violation of this Part following the issuance of a certificate of compliance
shall, in addition to the lateral testing requirements of this subsection,
perform lateral testing of the entire underground piping system on the property
(including under the foundation). The property owner would likewise be subject
to the penalty provisions herein.
   3.   Following sanitary sewer system construction in the Borough which
provides the property owner with a new public parallel collection sewer,
lateral and viewport at the property line, the following lateral testing
requirements shall apply:
      A.   Prior to making the connection to the new public parallel system,
the property's underground piping system shall pass an interior and exterior
visual/dye test and a pressure test from the viewport at the property' line to
directly outside of the building's foundation. Property owners shall have at
least one year from the completion of the project to be in compliance herewith.
   4.   Following sanitary sewer system construction in the Borough which
repairs or replaces the existing collection sewer, installs a new lateral and
installs a new viewport at the property line where the existing lateral is
located, the following lateral testing requirements shall apply:
      A.   Properties not supplied with a parallel lateral shall be connected
to the new system live during construction.
      B.   The property's underground piping shall pass an interior and
exterior visual/dye lest and pressure test from the viewport to directly
outside the building foundation. Property owners shall have at least one year
from the completion of the project to be in compliance herewith.
   5.   All properties shall remain subject to Subsection 1. hereof, regardless
of compliance with Subsections 2. through 4.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 5)
§ 206.   NOTICES TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
In the event the Ordinance Compliance Officer identifies any illegal
connections or leaking, deteriorating or poorly constructed private sanitary
sewer lateral and/or sanitary sewer connections following the issuance of a
certificate of compliance, the Ordinance Compliance Officer shall give written
notice of same to the property owner that such illegal connections be
eliminated and/or service connections be, at the property owner's expense,
repaired, replaced or rehabilitated and pressure tested within 30 days of the
date of the notice, said pressure test to be performed as described in §
205 1. hereof. If the condition does not create a health hazard, the Ordinance
Compliance Officer, upon request of the property owner, may extend the deadline
to 60 days from the date of notice. The testing shall be witnessed by the
Ordinance Compliance Officer who will verify that the owner has eliminated all
storm water from the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 6)
§ 207.   PROOF OF COMPLIANCE ON SALE OR TRANSFER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or transfer improved and sewered
real property located within the Borough without having obtained and delivered
to the buyer or transferee, at or prior to closing or transfer, a certificate
of compliance or temporary certificate of compliance indicating the property
sewer lateral was pressure tested or will be pressure tested by a set date for
the property being sold or transferred.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 7)
§ 208.   APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   1.   At least 21 days prior to the date of closing or transfer of any
improved and sewered real property located within the Borough, the seller,
transferor or agent shall submit to the Ordinance Compliance Officer an
application for certificate of compliance, completed as required by Subsection
2. below. The certificate of compliance form shall be available upon request
from the Portage Area Sewer Authority. The fee for filing the completed
application for certificate of compliance shall be established by the Borough
Council from time to time by resolution.
   2.   Prior to the sale or transfer of any improved and sewered real property
located within the Borough, the seller or transferor shall have lateral testing
performed by a licensed, qualified contractor approved in advance by the
Ordinance Compliance Officer, to perform such tests or by such other person
designated or approved by the Portage Area Sewer Authority, upon completion of
the lateral testing, the person who performed the test shall complete the
appropriate section of the application for certificate of compliance,
confirming the property has been lateral tested and certifying the results of
the test.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 8)
§ 209.   ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   1.   If the application for certificate of compliance, properly completed
and filed with the Ordinance Compliance Officer with the designated filing fee,
indicates that the improved and sewered real property passed the lateral
testing, the Ordinance Compliance Officer shall issue the certificate of
compliance within 10 days of application therefore.
   2.   If the improved and sewered real property fails the lateral testing,
the Ordinance Compliance Officer shall not issue the certificate of compliance
until the connections have been removed and the system passes lateral testing
performed by a qualified contractor approved in advance by the Ordinance
Compliance Officer, and has certified that there is no connection of surface
storm water to the sanitary sewer system from the property to be sold or
transferred.
   3.   Certificates of compliance shall be valid for a period of 3 years from
the issuance date.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 9)
§ 210.   TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   1.   When a storm water connection to the sanitary sewer system is
discovered and the necessary work to remove the connection would require a
length of time such as to create a hardship for the seller or applicant, the
seller or applicant may apply to the ordinance compliance officer for a
temporary certificate of compliance. The seller or applicant must submit the
following with the properly completed application:
      A.   A bona fide executed contract with a qualified contractor approved
in advance by the Ordinance Compliance Officer, requiring the contractor to
complete the remedial work necessary for the removal of the connections of
surface storm water to the sanitary sewer system and pass lateral testing and
granting the Portage Borough Council or its designee, the right and power to
enforce the contract.
      B.   Cash security in an amount equal to 110% of the contract described
in subsection 1.A. above.
      C.   The agreement of the purchaser or transferee to be responsible for
all cost overruns related to the remedial work, together with a license from
the purchaser or transferee to the portage area sewer authority, its agents,
contractors and employees, to enter upon the property complete the remedial
work in case of default by the contractor or the applicant.
      D.   The filing fee established by the Borough Council from time to time
by resolution.
   2.   When lateral testing cannot be performed because of weather conditions,
the seller or applicant may apply to the Ordinance Compliance Officer for a
temporary certificate of compliance. The seller or applicant must submit the
following with the properly completed application:
      A.   Cash security in the amount of $1,000 in addition to 110% of the
estimated repair costs (see Subsection 1.B. above).
      B.   The written, signed agreement of the purchaser or transferee to
correct, at the purchaser's or transferee's sole expense, any surface storm
water connections to the sanitary sewer system disclosed by the subsequent
lateral testing, together with a license from the purchaser or transferee to
the Portage Area Sewer Authority, its agents, contractors, and employees, to
enter upon the property to conduct the lateral testing should the applicant
fail to do so. Nothing in this Subsection 2. shall prohibit any purchaser or
transferee from requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser or
transferee for any costs incurred in connection with such remedial work;
provided, however, that primary responsibility for the remedial work and all
costs thereof shall run with the land, and no such agreement shall affect the
Portage Area Sewer Authority's enforcement powers or excuse the current owner
of the property from performance.
      C.   The filing fee established by the Borough Council from time to time
by resolution.
   3.   The Ordinance Compliance Officer may reject the application for
temporary certificate of compliance whenever, in his or her sole judgment, the
conditions defined by §
207 do not exist or the submissions required by this §
210 have not been made.
   4.   The temporary certificate of compliance shall be effective for 60 days
and the expiration date of the temporary certificate of compliance shall be
noted on the certificate. If, upon the expiration of the temporary certificate
of compliance, the seller or applicant has not applied for and received a
certificate of completion, as provided for in §
205 and §
206 of this Part, the cash security shall be forfeited, and the Borough may use
the funds to complete the remedial work for the lateral testing.
   5.   The application for temporary certificate of compliance form shall be
available upon request from the Borough Secretary.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 10)
§ 211.   MUNICIPAL LIEN AND TAX VERIFICATION LETTERS.
A request to the Borough for a municipal lien letter or tax verification letter
must be accompanied by a valid certificate of compliance or temporary
certificate of compliance and by the appropriate fee, which shall be
established by the Borough Council from time to time by resolution. The Borough
shall issue the municipal lien letter within 7 days of the receipt of the
appropriately documented request and applicable fee.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 11)
§ 212.   EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
A certificate of compliance issued under this Part shall be valid for a period
of 3 years from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 12)
§ 213.   REGULATIONS.
The Ordinance Compliance Officer is hereby empowered to make reasonable rules
and regulations for the operation and enforcement of this Part, including but
not limited to: establishing the form of applications, acknowledgments and
certifications and limiting the time of year in which temporary certificates of
compliance are available for reasons of weather.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 13)
§ 214.   CONFLICT WITH GENERAL POLICE POWERS.
Nothing in this Part shall limit in any fashion whatsoever the Borough's right
to enforce its ordinances or the laws of the Commonwealth. Nothing in this Part
shall be a defense to any citation issued by any municipal corporation or the
Commonwealth pursuant to any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 14)
§ 215.   PENALTIES.
Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the terms or
provisions of this Part, shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $600
for each violation. Once a person is notified of a violation of this Part, each
day that such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
violation. In addition to and not in lieu of the foregoing, the Borough or the
Portage Area Sewer Authority may seek equitable relief to compel compliance
with this Part.
(Ord. 4-2014, 8/4/2014, § 15)
CHAPTER 19
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
PART 1
BILLBOARD CONTROL
   §
101.   Explanation
   §
102.   Purpose and Applicability
   §
103.   Definitions
   §
104.   Prohibited Signs
   §
105.   Exemptions to this Part
   §
106.   Non-conforming Signs
   §
107.   Variances
   §
108.   First Amendment Protection
   §
109.   Administration
PART 1
BILLBOARD CONTROL
§ 101.   EXPLANATION.
The Billboard Control Ordinance is an ordinance regulating large outdoor signs
in the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 1)
§ 102.   PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   1.   The citizens of the Borough of Portage, acting through the Borough
Council and Planning Commission and in various other forums have indicated a
desire to maintain and enhance the character and beauty throughout the Borough.
This Part builds on those efforts by providing additional protection not
available under County or State regulations.
   2.   This Part regulates all billboards in the Borough of Portage that are
visible from the public highway right-of-way, public facilities, trails open to
the public.
   3.   Maintain and enhance the visual quality (aesthetics) of the community.
   4.   Protect and enhance economic viability by assuring that Portage Borough
will be a visually pleasant place to visit or live.
   5.   Protect property values and private/public investments in property.
   6.   Protect views of the natural landscape and sky.
   7.   Avoid personal injury and property damage from structurally unsafe
billboards.
   8.   Provide businesses with effective and efficient opportunities for
identification by reducing competing demands for visual attention.
   9.   Allow for expression by signage subject to reasonable regulation.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 2)
§ 103.   DEFINITIONS.
   ABANDONED SIGN -
      A.   Any sign that does not display a well-maintained message for a
consecutive 120-day period.
      B.   Any sign the owner of which cannot be located at owner's last
address as reflected on the records of the Department.
      C.   Any sign no longer fully supported, by the structure designed to
support the sign, for a consecutive 120-day period.
   AREA OF A SIGN - the area of one side of a sign is calculated from the
smallest rectangle that encompasses all the exposed face that could be filled
with a message or graphics.
   BANNERS - sign placed without a permanent structure containing a time-bound
message and used in aggregate no more than 7 days in any calendar on any
private parcel.
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Portage has the responsibility for administering
this Part.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN - sign with a message on both sides of a support structure
thus counting as two sign faces.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN - a sign authorized by this municipality, another
governmental agency, the State of Pennsylvania, or the Federal government.
   HIGHWAY - any roadway that is accessible to the public and maintained by the
Borough or by the State for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN - a sign in place before the effective date of this Part
that does not comply with all of the requirements of this Part.
   OWNER - a person, corporation or other entity who owns the real property
upon which a sign is placed.
   PERSON - any individual or entity, including a firm, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company, trustee, and their legal
successors.
   SIGN - an object, including a structure, wall, image, or movable device
displaying any message visible to the public. Notices legally placed on public
property and removed on a daily basis are not considered signs. Letters
individually painted on or attached to a building that merely identify the
owner or occupant or name of the establishment are not considered signs.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN - a sign for events such as grand openings, displays,
craft shows, benefits, fund-raisers, festivals, and other limited term events
and that in aggregate are used not more that 15 days in any calendar year on
any private parcel.
   WARNING SIGN - a sign, less than 3 square feet, that warns the public about
trespass to private property, dangerous conditions such as an aggressive dog
and unusual hazards such as drop-offs, high voltage, fire dangers and
explosives.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 3)
§ 104.   PROHIBITED SIGNS.
No new outdoor sign may be constructed in the Borough of Portage that has any
of the following characteristics:
      A.   An area of more than 26 square feet.
      B.   A combined area of all sign faces on any one parcel of more than 70
square feet.
      C.   A height of any part of the sign that is more than 10 feet above the
uniform finished grade.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 4)
§ 105.   EXEMPTIONS TO THIS PART.
   1.   Governmental signs and flags.
   2.   Banners.
   3.   Warning signs.
   4.   Special event signs.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 5)
§ 106.   NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   1.   Intent. This Part is intended to encourage the eventual elimination of
signs which do not comply with this Part. The elimination of non-conforming
signs is important to the purpose stated in §
102; however, it is also the intent of this Part to avoid unreasonable invasion
of property rights while accomplishing the removal of non-conforming signs.
   2.   Compliance. A sign not complying with this Part, but in place on the
effective date of this Part, shall be “grandfathered” and not affected by this
Part.
   3.   Continuance. A non-conforming sign may be continued if it is maintained
in good condition. It shall not, however, be replaced by another non-conforming
sign. It may not be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign.
It may not be reestablished after damage or destruction if the Office
determines that the estimate cost of reconstruction exceeds 50% of the
estimated replacement value.
   4.   Nuisance. An unsafe or abandoned sign is declared to be a nuisance,
which shall be abated within 60 days of receiving notice from the Borough
Police Department. After 60 days, the sign may be removed by the Borough’s
Public Works Department.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 6)
§ 107.   VARIANCES.
Appeals to denials of a permit application shall be made in writing within 30
days of said denial directly to the Borough Council who shall conduct a noticed
public hearing and decide the request within 60 days. Variances may be granted
if all of the following criteria are fulfilled:
      A.   The circumstance are not of the applicant's making.
      B.   The applicant's request mitigates unusual site conditions.
      C.   The applicant's request would not create a detriment to the
neighborhood or reduce property value.
      D.   The applicant's request is consistent with the spirit and intent of
this Part.
      E.   Without the variance, the applicant would experience a hardship and
cannot make any reasonable use of the property.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 7)
§ 108.   FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTION.
Any sign allowed under this Part may contain, in lieu of any other text, any
otherwise lawful non-commercial message that does not direct attention to a
business operated for profit or to a commodity or service for sale and that
complies with all other provisions of this Part including the specific
provisions for signage in the land use category on which the sign is placed.
The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this Part may substitute
noncommercial copy in lieu of any other copy without additional approval or
permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent
favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any
noncommercial message over any other noncommer cial message. This provision
prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 8)
§ 109.   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Administration. The Borough shall appoint personnel to administer and
enforce the terms and conditions of this Part.
   2.   Enforcement. The Borough shall issue permits as required by this Part.
The Borough shall also ensure that signs comply with this Part and any other
applicable law. The Borough shall also enforce the requirement that all sign
owners properly comply with this Part by procuring a permit. The Borough shall
make such inspections as may be necessary and shall initiate appropriate action
to enforce compliance with this Part and other applicable laws.
   3.   Borough Powers. The Borough shall have the power and authority to
administer and enforce this Part, included among such powers are the following
specific powers:
      A.   Upon presentation of proper identification to the owner or owner's
agent, the Borough may enter the sign area for purposes of inspecting the
sign’s area and height. In cases of emergency, where imminent hazards to
persons or property are known to exist, and where the owner, or owner's agent,
is not readily available, the Borough may enter the sign area for purposes of
inspection or remediation. When on private property, the Borough shall observe
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security, and fire
protection, If the Borough is denied admission to inspect any sign, inspection
shall be made only under authority of a warrant issued by a court of proper
jurisdiction, when applying for such warrant, the Borough shall submit an
affidavit setting forth a belief that a violation of this Part exists with
respect to a particular sign, and the reasons for forming this belief. The
affidavit shall designate the place and name of the person believed to own or
posses the sign. If the court finds probable cause exists for the search of the
sign, and supporting structure, then a warrant authorizing the search shall be
issued. The warrant shall describe the property with sufficient certainty to
identify the same. This warrant shall constitute authority for the Borough to
enter the sign area and to inspect the property.
      B.   Upon issuance of a stop order from the Borough, work on any sign
that is being conducted in any manner contrary to this Part shall be
immediately stopped, this notice and order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the parcel, the owner, or to the person performing the
work. The stop order shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed; The Borough Police Department shall have authority to enforce a stop
order.
      C.   The Borough has the authority to revoke any permit authorized by
this Part if the sign violates this Part or another law, provided that the
Borough shall offer the owner an opportunity to be heard. The person whose
permit is under consideration shall be given at 10 days written notice of the
time, place, and reason for the hearing. The owner and/or person identified in
the permit shall be permitted to present relevant facts and legal argument
concerning the pending revocation. Following this hearing, the Borough shall
consider the merits of the case and shall present a written decision. If the
Borough determines that a violation has occurred, the owner shall have 30 days
to remove the sign. If, however, the Borough believes violation of this Part is
causing imminent danger, the Borough may immediately revoke any sign permit and
order immediate removal.
      D.   A sign installed after the effective date of this Part, and not
conforming to this Part, shall be removed by the owner. The owner shall not be
entitled to compensation for the sign removal and shall reimburse the Borough
for any cost incurred in connection with the removal.
      E.   Any person violating any provision of this Part shall upon
adjudication forfeit not less that $100 and not more than $600 for each
violation. Each day, subsequent to the 30- day removal timetable, on which a
violation continues to occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition,
the Borough Solicitor is authorized to take all action, legal, injunctive and
equitable, to assure compliance with this Part.
(Ord. 4-2009, 5/18/2009, § 9)
CHAPTER 20
SOLID WASTE
PART 1
SOLID WASTE
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Prohibited Activities
   §
104.   Standards for Storage of Solid Waste
   §
105.   Standards and Regulations for Collection and Transportation
   §
106.   Collection and Disposal Charges
   §
107.   Administrative Appeals
   §
108.   Injunction Powers
   §
109.   Penalties
PART 2
RECYCLING
   §
201.   Definition
   §
202.   Placement of Recyclables at Drop Off Center
   §
203.   Ownership of Recyclables
   §
204.   Prohibited Acts
   §
205.   Penalties
PART 1
SOLID WASTE
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known and referred to as the "Solid Waste Ordinance."
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, § 1)
§ 102.   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   The following words and phrases, as used in this Part, shall have the
meaning ascribed herein, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
      ACT 97 - the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act of 1980 (P.L. 380,
No. 97, July 7, 1980).
      ACT 101 - the Pennsylvania Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act of 1988 (Act No. 101, July 28, 1988).
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE - poultry and livestock manure, or residual materials
in liquid or solid form, generated in the production and marketing of poultry,
livestock, fur-bearing animals and their products, provided such waste is not a
hazardous waste. The term includes the residual materials generated in
producing, harvesting and marketing of all agronomic, horticultural,
silvicultural and agricultural crops or commodities grown on what are usually
recognized and accepted as farms, forests or other agricultural lands.
      BULKY WASTE - large items of solid waste including, but not limited to,
appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches or stumps which may
require special handling due to their size, shape or weight.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT - any establishment engaged in nonmanufacturing
or nonprocessing business included, but not limited to, stores, markets, office
buildings, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
      CONSTRUCTION and DEMOLITION WASTE - all municipal and residual waste
building materials, grubbing waste and rubble resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings
and other structures and pavements.
      DEPARTMENT - the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
[Ord. 3-1999]
      DISPOSAL - the incineration, deposition injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking or placing of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that
the solid waste or a constituent of the solid waste enters the environment, is
emitted into the air or is discharged to the waters of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
      DOMESTIC WASTE or HOUSEHOLD WASTE - solid waste comprised of garbage and
rubbish which normally originates in the residential private household or
apartment house.
      GARBAGE - solid waste derived from animal, grain, fruit or vegetable
matter that is capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with sufficient
rapidity to cause such nuisances as odors, gases or vectors.
      HAULER or PRIVATE COLLECTOR - any person, firm, copartnership,
association or corporation who has been licensed by the County or its
designated representative to collect, transport and dispose of refuse for a fee
as herein prescribed.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE - any solid waste or combination of solid wastes, as
defined in Act 97 or 101 which because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
      A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in morbidity in either an individual or the total population.
      B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environ- ment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
      INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT - any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
processing including, but not limited to, factories, foundries, mills,
processing plants, refineries, mines and slaughterhouses.
      INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT - any establishment engaged in service
including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages, schools
and universities.
      LICENSE - a legally constituted requirement (PA Act 101 of 1988) imposed
by the County Commissioners of Cambria County for the purpose of collecting and
hauling municipal waste from any municipality within Cambria County This
license shall also designate the required disposal site or sites as included in
the County's Municipal Waste Management Plan.
      MUNICIPAL WASTE - garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities, and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under Acts 97 or 101 from
a municipal, commercial or institutional water supply treatment plant,
wastewater treatment plant or air pollution control facility.
      MUNICIPALITY - the Borough of Portage, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
[Ord. 3-1999]
      PERSON - any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, municipal authority, Federal government or
agency, State institution and agency or any other legal entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In any provision of this
Part prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty, or any combination of the
foregoing, the term person shall include the officers and directors of any
corporation or other legal entity having officers and directors.
      PROCESSING - any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume
or bulk of municipal or residual waste or any technology used to convert part
or all of such waste materials for offsite reuse. Processing facilities
include, but are not limited to, transfer facilities, composting facilities and
resource recovery facilities.
      REFUSE - all solid waste materials which are discarded as useless.
      RESIDUAL WASTE - any garbage, refuse, other discarded material or other
waste including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, mining and agricultural operations and any sludge
from an industrial, mining or agricultural water supply treatment facility,
wastewater treatment facility or air pollution control facility, provided that
it is not hazardous. The term residual waste shall not include coal refuse as
defined in the “Coal Refuse Disposal Control Act.” Residual waste shall not
include treatment sludges from coal mine drainage treatment plants, disposal of
which is being carried on pursuant to and in compliance with a valid permit
issued pursuant to the “Clean Streams Law.”
      RUBBISH - all nonputrescible municipal waste except garbage and other
decomposable matter. This category includes, but is not limited to, ashes,
bedding, cardboard, cans, crockery, glass, paper, wood and yard cleanings.
      SCAVENGING - the unauthorized and uncontrolled removal of material placed
for collection or from a solid waste processing or disposal facility.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT RESIDUES - any coarse screenings, grit and dewatered or
air- dried sludges from sewage treatment plants and pumpings from septic tanks
or septage which are a municipal solid waste and require proper disposal under
Acts 97 and 101.
      SOLID WASTE - any waste including, but not limited to, municipal,
residual or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained
gaseous material.
      STORAGE - the containment of any waste on temporary basis in such a
manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste. It shall be presumed that
the containment of any waste in excess of 1 year constitutes disposal. This
presumption can be overcome by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
      TRANSPORTATION - the offsite removal of any solid waste at any time after
generation.
      TRANSFER STATION - any supplemental transportation facility used as an
adjunct to solid waste route collection vehicles.
   2.   In this Part the singular shall include the plural and the masculine
shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, 2; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 103.   PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or permit to
accumulate upon any public or private property within the Borough any garbage,
rubbish, bulky waste or any other municipal or residual solid waste except in
accordance with the provision of this Part and any Department rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any solid waste within the
Borough except in accordance with the provisions of this Part and any
Department rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Art 101.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any solid waste in
the Borough except in accordance with the provisions of this Part and any
Department rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any materials from any
solid waste that is stored or deposited for collection within the Borough
without prior approval by the Borough.
   5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to salvage or reclaim any solid
wastes within the Borough except at an approved and permitted resource recovery
facility under Act 97 and Act 101, and any Department rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to these Acts.
   6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit, or
cause or permit to be thrown, placed or deposited any solid waste in or upon
any street, alley, sidewalk, body of water, public or private property within
the Borough except as provided in this Part.
   7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a used lead acid battery
in mixed municipal solid waste, discard or otherwise dispose of a lead acid
battery except by delivery to an automotive battery retailer or wholesaler, to
a secondary lead smelter permitted by the Environmental Protection Agency, or
to a collection or recycling facility authorized under the laws of this
Commonwealth.
   8.   It shall be unlawful for any municipal waste landfill to accept for
disposal, and no resource recovery facility may accept for processing, other
than composting, truckloads composed primarily of leaf waste.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, § 3; as amended by Ord. 2-2004, 4/5/2004, § 1)
§ 104.   STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE.
   1.   The storage of all solid waste shall be practiced so as to prevent the
attraction, harborage or breeding of insects or rodents, and to eliminate
conditions harmful to public health or which create safety hazards, odors,
unsightliness or public nuisances.
   2.   Any person producing municipal waste shall provide a sufficient number
of approved containers to store all waste materials generated during periods
between regularly scheduled collections, and shall place and store all waste
materials therein.
   3.   Any person storing municipal waste for collection shall comply with the
following preparation standards:
      A.   All municipal waste shall be drained of free liquids before being
placed in storage containers.
      B.   All garbage or other putrescible waste shall be securely wrapped in
paper, plastic or similar material or placed in properly tied plastic bags.
      C.   All cans, bottles or other food containers should be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before being placed in storage containers.
      D.   Garden clippings and tree trimmings shall be placed in approved
containers or shall be cut and tied securely into bundles. Bundles shall weigh
not more than 35 pounds.
      E.   All containers, either reusable or disposable, shall also comply
with the minimum standards established by the National Sanitation Foundation.
   4.   Any person storing municipal waste for collection shall comply with the
following storage standards:
      A.   Containers shall be kept tightly sealed or covered at all times.
Solid waste shall not protrude or extend above the top of the container.
      B.   Reusable containers shall be kept in a sanitary condition at all
times. The interior of the containers shall be thoroughly cleaned, rinsed,
drained and disinfected, as often as necessary, to prevent the accumulation of
liquid residues or solids on the bottom or sides of the containers.
      C.   Containers shall be used and maintained so as to prevent public
nuisances.
      D.   Containers that do not conform to the standards of this Part, or
which have sharp edges, ragged edges or any other defects that may hamper or
injure collection personnel shall be promptly replaced by the owner upon notice
from the Borough or its designated representative.
      E.   Containers shall be placed by the owner or customer at a collection
point specified by the Borough or its designated representative.
      F.   With the exception of pick-up days when the containers are placed
out for collection, the containers shall be properly stored on the owner or
customer premises at all times.
      G.   Bulk waste items such as furniture, automobile parts, machinery,
appliances and tires shall be stored in a manner that will prevent the
accumulation or collection of water, the harborage of rodents, safety hazards
and fire hazards.
      H.   Owners of individual residences and multi-family residential sources
with less than four units shall either purchase weekly residential curbside
service or purchase one package of 10 pre-paid plastic garbage bags no less
than once a year. The fee for said services shall be established by resolution
of Borough Council. [Ord. 2-2004]
   5.   The storage of all municipal waste from multifamily residential units,
commercial establishments, institutions and industrial lunchroom or office
waste sources is subject to the regulations and standards set forth in this
Part. The type, size and placement requirements for bulk containers shall be
determined by the waste generator and the waste hauler and are subject to
approval by the Borough.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, § 4; as amended by Ord. 2-2004, 4/5/2004, § 2)
§ 105.   STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTA TION.
   1.   The Borough shall provide for the collection of all garbage, rubbish
and bulky wastes from individual residences and multifamily residential sources
with less than four units, or it may contact with a private collector or
collectors to provide this essential residential collection service.
   2.   All households and homeowners shall utilize the residential collection
service provided by the Borough. [Ord. 1-2004]
   3.   All multifamily residential sources (with more than four units),
commercial, institutional and industrial establishments shall negotiate and
individually contract collection service with the Borough's collector or any
other properly licensed waste hauler of their choice.
   4.   All residential garbage and rubbish shall be collected at least once a
week. Bulky wastes shall be collected following prior arrangement with the
Borough's collector and payment of any required special fees.
   5.   All commercial, institutional, public and industrial lunchroom and
office waste containing garbage shall be collected at least once a week.
Rubbish collection from these sources shall be made as often as necessary to
control health hazards, odors, flies and unsightly conditions. The Borough
reserves the right to require more frequent collection when deemed necessary.
   6.   Residential collection schedules shall be published regularly by the
Borough or its contracted hauler.
   7.   All licensed haulers under contract with the Borough shall comply with
the following standards and regulations:
      A.   All municipal waste collected within the Borough shall be conveyed
by the hauler to a transfer station, processing facility or disposal site
designated in the approved Cambria County Municipal Waste Management Plan.
      B.   Any trucks or other vehicles used for the collection and
transportation of municipal waste must comply with the requirements of Acts 97
and 101, and any Department regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101,
and must be licensed by the Cambria County Commissioners or their designated
agent.
      C.   All collection vehicles conveying domestic waste and garbage shall
be watertight and suitably enclosed to prevent leakage, roadside littering,
attraction of vectors, the creation of odors and other nuisances.
      D.   Collection vehicles for rubbish and other nonputrescible solid waste
shall be capable of being enclosed or covered to prevent roadside litter and
other nuisances.
      E.   All solid waste shall be collected and transported so as to prevent
public health hazards, safety hazards and nuisances.
      F.   All solid waste collection vehicles shall be operated and maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; and by Ord. 1-
2004, 2/2/2004, § 1)
§ 106.   COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CHARGES.
   1.   The Borough Council of the Borough shall be authorized to make funds
available, in accordance with the laws and procedures of the Borough, for the
establishment, maintenance and operation of the municipal solid waste
collection and transportation system; or for the contracting of such service to
a private collector.
   2.   Annual fee schedules (if appropriate) shall be published by the Borough
based on any competitively bid residential collection service contract that may
be awarded by the Borough.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; and by Ord. 2-
2004, 4/5/2004, § 3)
§ 107.   ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   1.   All appeals shall be made in writing to the Borough Council of the
Borough.
   2.   Pending a reversal or modification, all decisions of the Borough shall
remain effective and enforceable.
   3.   Appeals may be made by the following persons:
      A.   Any person who is aggrieved by a new standard or regulation issued
by the Borough may appeal within 10 days after the Borough gives notice of its
intention to issue the new standard or regulation.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall be served in writing and sent by certified
mail with return receipt requested. Within 20 days after receipt of the notice
of appeal, the Borough shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall
be sent to both parties in time to adequately prepare for the hearing. Notice
shall be sent to the parties by certified mail with return receipt requested at
the last known address in addition to publication in the local newspaper.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, § 7)
§ 108.   INJUNCTION POWERS.
The Borough may petition the court of common pleas for an injunction, either
mandatory or prohibitive, to enforce any of the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 109.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-1993, 5/4/1992, as amended by Ord. 6/3/1996; and by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/
1999)
PART 2
RECYCLING
§ 201.   DEFINITION.
When used in this Part, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed to
them:
   CO-MINGLED ALUMINUM and TIN CANS - all cans may be collected together. Cans
must be totally empty and rinsed. Cans may be crushed or flattened. Ends must
be removed and recycled.
   GLASS CONTAINERS - all glass containers of clear, amber and green and being
used for packaging and bottling of various matter, and all other material
commonly known as glass excluding mirror or window, glass, lightbulbs, dishes
or ceramics and safety glass. Must be sorted by color. Lids must be removed.
Must be emptied and rinsed. Must be unbroken.
   PLASTIC CONTAINERS - all containers made from unbreakable synthetic
material, the product being used for the bottling of milk, soft drinks and
other beverages and liquids. The #1 P.E.T. and #2 H.D.P.E containers only
(bottles, jugs or jars). Must be emptied and rinsed of all residue. Lids should
be removed and thrown away.
(Ord. 9-1994, 12/5/1994, § 1)
§ 202.   PLACEMENT OF RECYCLABLES AT DROP OFF CENTER.
All residents of the Borough of Portage who place recyclables at the drop off
center shall:
      A.   Separate glass containers, plastic containers and co-mingle aluminum
or tin cans from other garbage and/or refuse.
      B.   Empty and clean such glass containers into clear and colored lots,
bagged or bundled in manageable quantities. Glass shall, remain unbroken.
      C.   Plastic containers shall be thoroughly emptied and rinsed of all
residue (bottles, jugs or jars). #1 and #2 plastic only
      D.   Rinse such cans. Lids removed and included in the recycling, may be
flattened or crushed. No aerosol cans or toxic or hazardous containers.
(Ord. 9-1994, 12/5/1994, § 2)
§ 203.   OWNERSHIP OF RECYCLABLES.
Upon placement of such recyclables at the "drop off center" trailer they become
the sole and exclusive property of the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 9-1994, 12/5/1994, § 3)
§ 204.   PROHIBITED ACTS.
It shall be a violation of this Part for any person or resident of Portage
Borough to:
      A.   Fail to or improperly separate recyclable items as specified.
      B.   Dispose of improper garbage/rubbish or not specified and
recyclables.
      C.   To litter the recycling center in any mariner. (Ord. 9-1994, 12/5/
1994, § 4)
§ 205.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 9-1994, 12/5/1994, § 5; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
CHAPTER 21
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
PART 1
STREET EXCAVATIONS
   §
101.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
102.   Permit Required to Make Opening or Excavation
   §
103.   Application for Permit
   §
104.   Permit Fee
   §
105.   Issuance of Permits Restricted
   §
106.   Information Contained on Permit
   §
107.   Permit Approval/Disapproval
   §
108.   Responsibility to Contact Utilities
   §
109.   Refilling of Opening or Excavation; Restoration of Surface;
Responsibility for Defects Occurring Within 2 Years
   §
110.   Responsibility of Permit Holder for Certain Work; Right of Borough to Do
Certain Work; Charges Therefor
   §
111.   Requirements for Work; Correction of Unsatisfactory Work; Completion of
Incomplete Work
   §
112.   Emergency Openings
   §
113.   Restrictions Regarding Trees and Shrubbery
   §
114.   Work Necessitating Opening or Excavation to be Done Prior to Street
Improvement and Not Until 5 Years Thereafter; Exception
   §
115.   Permittee Responsibilities for Future Relocation of Work
   §
116.   Conditions for Laying and Extending Utility Lines
   §
117.   Bond Required
   §
118.   Payment for Work Done by Borough
   §
119.   Penalties
PART 2
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS
   §
201.   Findings and Purpose
   §
202.   Definitions
   §
203.   Obstructing of Cartways Prohibited
   §
204.   Authority to Remove and Impound
   §
205.   Designation of Approved Storage Areas; Bonding; Storage
   §
206.   Payment of Removal and Storage Charges
   §
207.   Reclamation Costs
   §
208.   Records of Objects Removed and impounded
   §
209.   Restrictions Upon Removal of Objects
   §
210.   Penalties
PART 3
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
   §
301.   Definitions
   §
302.   Responsibility of Property Owners
   §
303.   Permit Required; Fees
   §
304.   General Requirements
   §
305.   Construction, Repair, and Replacement Methods and Specifications
   §
306.   Supplemental Regulations
   §
307.   Authorization for Other Curbs and Sidewalks
   §
308.   Mandatory Reconstruction of Curb and Sidewalk
   §
309.   Failure to Comply
   §
310.   Violations and Penalties
   §
311.   Cumulative Rights and Remedies
PART 4
SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS AND ROOFS
   §
401.   Snow and Ice on Sidewalks and Roofs
   §
402.   Debris on Alleys and Roadways
PART 5
UNOPENED STREETS, ALLEYS OR ROADWAYS
   §
501.   Travel on Unopened Street Prohibited
   §
502.   Penalty
   §
503.   Definitions
PART 1
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 101.   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   1.   The following words, when used in this Part, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except in those instances where the context
clearly indicates otherwise:
      EXCAVATION - any activity within the right-of-way of any street, alley or
cartway which involves cutting, breaking or disturbing the surface thereof. In
this Part, the term "opening" shall have essentially the same meaning as
excavation.
      PERSON - any natural person, partnership, firm, association, corporation
or municipal authority.
      STREET- any public street, avenue, road, square, alley highway or other
public place located in the Borough of Portage and established for the use of
vehicles, but shall not include State highways.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine
shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/:999)
§ 102.   PERMIT REQUIRED TO MAKE OPENING OR EXCAVATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to open or to make any excavation of any
kind in any of the streets in the Borough of Portage without first securing a
permit therefor, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3-1q99, 4/5/1999)
§ 103.   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
Any person who shall desire to make any opening or excavation in any of the
streets in the Borough of Portage shall make application to the [designated
official] in writing for that purpose. Such application shall be made upon
blanks to be furnished by the Borough and shall set forth the name of the
applicant, the exact location of the proposed opening or excavation and the
approximate size or depth thereof, and shall contain an agreement on the part
of the applicant that the work shall be done in full compliance with the
ordinances of the Borough and the laws of the Commonwealth in relation thereto,
and that the applicant shall well and truly save, defend and keep harmless the
Borough of Portage from and indemnify it against any and ail actions, suits,
demands, payments, costs and charges for or by reason of the proposed opening
or excavation, and all damages to persons or property resulting in any manner
therefrom, or occurring in the prosecution of the work connected therewith, or
from any other matter, cause or thing relating thereto.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 104.   PERMIT FEE.
Before any permit shall be issued to open or excavate any street in the Borough
the applicant shall pay a permit fee in the amount fixed according to a
schedule established pursuant to resolution. When application shall be made to
open or excavate any longitudinal opening or excavation in excess of 10 feet,
before any permit shall be issued so to open or excavate, the applicant shall
pay in addition to such minimum fee, an additional fee at the rate, for each
100 feet, or fraction thereof to be opened or excavated upon such street,
pursuant to the fee schedule.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 105.   ISSUANCE OF PERMITS RESTRICTED.
Permits shall be issued only to persons furnishing public utility services or
the owner or owners of the real property adjoining the location where such
opening or excavation is to be made.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 106.   INFORMATION CONTAINED ON PERMIT.
Any permit issued hereunder shall specify the exact location where the opening
or excavation is to be made, the approximate permitted size or depth thereof
and the time within which the work for which the permit is granted to be
completed.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 107.   PERMIT APPROVAL/DISAPPROVAL.
A permit may be issued to the applicant after all the requirements therefor
have been filed. If the application is disapproved, written notice of
disapproval together with reasons therefor shall be given to the applicant.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 108.   RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTACT UTILITIES.
The work authorized by the permit is subject to all the provisions of the Act
of December 10, 1974, P.L. 852, No. 287,1 et seq., as amended or supplemented
from time to time. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to contact the
utilities that have recorded their facilities in compliance with said Act. A
partial list of utilities providing services in the Borough and their office
addresses may be obtained from the County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 109.   REFILLING OF OPENING OR EXCAVATION; RESTORATION OF SURFACE;
RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEFECTS OCCURRING WITHIN 2 YEARS.
Any person who shall open or excavate any street in the Borough shall
thoroughly and completely refill the opening or excavation in such a manner as
to prevent any settling thereafter, and shall restore the surface to the same
condition as it was before the opening or excavation, and such restoration
shall be in accordance with the specifications of the Department of
Transportation of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania which are hereby adopted as
specifications of the Borough for restoration of surfaces of streets in the
Borough, as restored; the surface shall conform to the proper grade and be of
the same surface covering as the part of the thoroughfare immediately adjoining
the opening. If within 2 years after the restoration of the surface as herein
provided, defects shall appear therein resulting from defective backfilling by
the applicant, the applicant shall reimburse the Borough for the cost of all
necessary repairs to the permanent paving.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 110.   RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER FOR CERTAIN WORK; RIGHT OF BOROUGH TO
DO CERTAIN WORK; CHARGES THEREFOR.
All other work in connection with openings in any street, including excavation,
protection, refilling and temporary paving, shall be done by or for the person
to whom or which the permit has been issued at his or its expense, and all such
work shall be subject to the provisions of this Part and to the supervision and
approval of the [designated official], provided that the [designated official]
may if he deems it necessary to the proper performance of the work, require
that cutting of the surface of streets and the backfilling of all excavations
therein shall be done by the Borough, in which event the applicant shall pay
the actual cost of the work performed by the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/3/1999)
§ 111.   REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK; CORRECTION OF UNSATISFACTORY WORK; COMPLETION
OF INCOMPLETE WORK.
   1.   No opening or excavation in any street shall extend from the curb line
into the highway a distance greater than 1 foot beyond the center line of the
street before being refilled and the surface of the highway restored to a
condition safe and convenient for travel.
   2.   No more than 500 feet longitudinally shall be opened in any street at
any one time.
   3.   The work of excavation shall be so conducted as not to interfere with
the water mains, sewers or their connections with the houses, or any other
subsurface lines or constructions, until permission of the proper authorities
in connection with such subsurface lines or constructions shall have been
obtained.
   4.   No tunneling shall be allowed without the express approval of the
[designated official] and permission therefor endorsed upon the permit. The
backfilling of a tunnel excavation shall be made only in the presence of the
[designated official] or an inspector designated by him, and shall be done only
in a method approved by him.
   5.   All openings or excavations shall be backfilled promptly with modified
2A stones and thoroughly compacted in layers, each of which layers shall not
exceed eight 8 inches in depth. Backfilling shall be placed to within ten 10
inches of the surface.
   6.   A temporary paving of coldpatch premix, thoroughly bound and compacted,
shall he installed flush with the surface of the adjoining paving and
maintained for a period of 90 days.
   7.   On concrete base streets, such base shall be replaced with concrete and
the minimum size of the opening or excavation shall be 16 square feet.
   8.   During the making of any excavation in the street, every necessary and
reasonable precaution shall be taken by the applicant and the parties making
the same to keep the street in a safe and passable condition both day and night
by guards, barriers, lanterns and other devices, and all excavating permits
granted hereunder are granted under and subject to the express condition that
the person to whom the same is issued shall indemnify, save and keep harmless
the Borough from any loss in damages, or otherwise whatsoever, which may or
shall be occasioned at any time by the said excavation, or by any leak,
explosion or other injury from any pipe, apparatus, conduit, or any other
matter placed in the said excavation.
   9.   The applicant shall notify the [designated official] when the opening
or excavation is ready for backfilling before any backfilling is done, when
backfilling work is completed, when the temporary paving has been installed and
when the street has been permanently restored so that inspections may be made.
   10.   In the event that any work performed by or for a permit holder shall,
in the opinion of the [designated official] be unsatisfactory and the same
shall not be corrected in accordance with his instructions within the time
fixed by him, or in the event that the work for which the permit was granted is
not completed within the time fixed by the [designated official], the Borough
may proceed to correct such unsatisfactory work or complete any such work not
completed, and charge the cost thereof, plus 207 to the applicant.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 112.   EMERGENCY OPENINGS.
In the case of any leak, explosion or other accident in any subsurface pipe,
line, construction or apparatus, it shall be lawful for the person owning or
responsible for such pipe, line, construction or apparatus to commence an
excavation to remedy such condition before securing a permit, provided that
application for a permit shall be made immediately and not later than the next
business day thereafter, and that all other provisions of this Part are fully
complied with. If any such emergency condition shall not be immediately
attended to by the owner or person responsible for such pipe, line,
construction, or apparatus, the [designated official], after such notice as he
shall deem necessary under the circumstances of the particular case, shall
proceed to do the work necessary and required by such emergency, and charge the
same on the basis of cost plus 20% to such owner or person.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 113.   RESTRICTIONS REGARDING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
The permission herein granted does not confer upon the permittee or its
contractors the right to cut, remove or destroy trees or shrubbery within the
legal right-of-way except under specifications, regulations and conditions as
the Borough may prescribe.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 114.   WORK NECESSITATING OPENING OR EXCAVATION TO BE DONE PRIOR TO STREET
IMPROVEMENT AND NOT UNTIL 5 YEARS THEREAFTER; EXCEPTION.
The [designated official] shall give timely notice to all persons owning
property abutting on any street within the Borough of Portage about to be paved
or improved, and to all public utility companies operating in the Borough, and
all such persons and utility companies shall make all water, gas or sewer
connections, as well as any repairs thereto which would necessitate excavation
of the said street within 30 days from the giving of such notice, unless such
time is extended in writing for cause shown by the [designated official]. New
paving shall not be opened or excavated for a period of 5 years after the
completion thereof, except in case of emergency, the existence of which
emergency and the necessity for the opening or excavating of such paving to be
determined by the [designated official]. If it is sought to excavate upon or
open a sewer within 5 years after the completion of the paving applicant shall
make written application to the Borough Council, and a permit for such opening
shall be issued only after express approval of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 115.   PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FUTURE RELOCATION OF WORK.
If at any time in the future the roadway is widened, reconstructed or the
alignment or grades are changed, the permittee further agrees to change or
relocate all or any part of the structures covered by this permit which
interfere with the improvement of the roadway at its own cost and expense.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 116.   CONDITIONS FOR LAYING AND EXTENDING UTILITY LINES.
No new water, sewer, steam or gas main or electric, telephone or other utility
line shall hereafter be laid or constructed, and no such existing main or line
shall be extended, in any of the streets of the Borough until the plan therefor
shall have been first filed with the [designated official] and such plan, and
the exact location of such main or line, approved by him, The [designated
official] shall not approve the locating of any such main or line at a depth of
less than 36 inches from the surface of the street unless he shall be convinced
that locating the same at a depth of more than 30 inches from the surface is
impossible or impractical.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; as amended by Ord. 5-2021, 8/2/2021)
§ 117.   BOND REQUIRED.
No company, corporation or association shall dig up any street or alley without
first giving to the Borough of Portage a bond with some acceptable trust or
surety company as surety in the sum determined by the schedule of fees,
conditioned for the faithful performance of these provisions and also for any
and all damages, claims, demands, suits, costs and counsel fees occasioned or
arising from the digging up, opening or closing of said streets and alleys.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 118.   PAYMENT FOR WORK DONE BY BOROUGH.
Payment for all work done by the Borough under the provisions hereof shall be
made by the person made liable therefor under the provisions hereof within 30
days after a bill therefor is sent to such person by the Borough. Upon failure
to pay such charges within such time, the same shall he collectible by the
Borough by an action in assumpsit or in the manner provided by law for the
collection of municipal claims.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 119.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 2
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 201.   FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
The Borough Council finds that:
      A.   Cartway areas of the streets, alleys and ways of the Borough of
Portage are subjected to constant obstruction by objects other than motor
vehicles including, but not limited, to snowplows, sailboats, trailers,
equipment, cement mixers and a myraid of other like objects.
      B.   That the prohibition of placement of objects other than motor
vehicles on the cartways of the Borough streets, alleys and ways will permit
the proper utilization of those streets, alleys and ways and advance the public
safety of the citizens of the Borough.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 202.   DEFINITIONS.
   CARTWAY - the paved, macadamized or otherwise improved portion of a street,
alley or way.
   MOTOR VEHICLE - a vehic]e which is self-propelled on land, except one which
is propelled solely by human power or wind.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 203.   OBSTRUCTING OF CARTWAYS PROHIBITED.
It sha]l be unlawful for any persons to park, place or in the case of a person
who is the owner, lessee or otherwise has an interest in the object, allow to
remain, any object other than a motor vehicle in the cartway of any street,
alley or way of the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 204.   AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
The Borough of Portage shall have the authority to remove and impound, or to
order the removal and impounding of any nonmotorized object or vehicle found in
the cartway of the streets or alleys of the Borough of Portage.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 205.   DESIGNATION OF APPROVED STORAGE AREAS; BONDING; STORAGE.
Removal and impounding of objects under this Part shall be done only by either
Borough personnel or "approved agents" that shall be designated from time to
time by the Borough Council. Every such approved agent shall submit evidence to
the Borough that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount
satisfactory to the Borough Council as sufficient to indemnify owners of
impounded objects against loss or damage to those objects in the custody of the
approved agent. The approved agent shall have an approved storage area and
shall submit to the Borough a schedule of charges for removal and storage of
objects under this Part and, when the schedule is approved by the Borough
Council, those charges shall be adhered to by the approved storage agent; no
different schedule of charges shall be demanded of or collected from any person
whose object is removed or impounded under this Part by any approved storage
agent. The Borough Council shall delete from its list of approved storage
agents and areas any such agent that makes any unapproved charge in connection
with any objects removed or impounded under this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 206.   PAYMENT OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE CHARGES.
The payment of removal and storage charges shall rot relieve the owner, lessee
or other person having any interest in such an object from liability for any
fine or pena]ty for the violation of the provisions of this Part for which the
object was removed or impounded.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 207.   RECLAMATION COSTS.
In order to reclaim an object removed pursuant to the provisions hereof, the
owner, lessee or other person having an interest therein, shall pay removal and
storage costs according to the schedule set forth in §
205, above.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 208.   RECORDS OF OBJECTS REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
The Borough of Portage shall cause a record to be kept of all objects impounded
under this Part and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the
owners, lessees or other persons having an interest in said object with
information as to the place of storage of the object.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 209.   RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF OBJECTS.
No object shall be removed under the authority of this Part if, at the time of
the intended removal, the owner or the person in charge of such object is
present and expresses a willingness and intention to remove the object
immediately.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 210.   PENALTIES.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense. The aforesaid penalty or penalties shall be in
addition to the obligation of the person to pay any removal and storage charges
as set forth in other provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 3
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
§ 301.   DEFINITIONS.
The following words, when used in this Part, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this Section, except in those instances where the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
   ADA - The Federal American with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 512101 et seq.,
and regulations adopted implementing such statute.
   MUTCD - The Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices published by the
Federal Highway Administration and adopted by PennDot.
   PENNDOT -The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation or any agency
successor thereto.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 302.   RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
The owner or owners of all lots fronting or abutting upon any public street or
alley, shall upon written notices from the Board, construct, lay, and set the
respective sidewalks and curbs in front of or alongside their respective lots
according to the elevations, grade, width, height and slope which are now or
hereafter established by the Borough, and of the materials and specifications
hereinafter prescribed. Additionally, the owner or owners of all lots fronting
and abutting any public street or alley shall maintain in good repair and
condition free of hazard, satisfactory to the Council or its designee, the
respective sidewalks and curbs in front of or alongside their respective lots.
Such maintenance shall include the removal of any obstruction caused by the
limbs and branches of vegetation adjacent to sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 303.   PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   1.   Prior to laying, construction, reconstruction or alteration of either
curbs or sidewalks by property owners, a property owner shall apply for a
permit from the Borough to do so according to the regulations set forth herein,
together with the appropriate fee as may be established from time to time by
resolution. The Borough shall issue the permit if the application conforms to
the ordinance of the Borough. No person, whether a property owner or a
contractor, shall lay, construct, reconstruct or alter either curbs or
sidewalks prior to obtaining a permit.
   2.   The property owner and the property owner's contractor are responsible
for notification of all utilities using the Pennsylvania One-Call System and
other means as necessary prior to the start of work.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 304.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Location, Line and Grade. Parameters for location, line and grade will
be outlined by the Borough where applicable upon request. Curbs and sidewalks
shall be constructed in accordance with approved development and/or Borough
plans and specifications and to lines and grades outlined by the Borough. No
curb or sidewalk grade shall adversely impact upon any building foundation.
   2.   Safety. The property owner or property owner's contractor shall leave
the work area clean and neat at the end of each day. The property owner or
property owner's contractor shall place suitable barricades around the work
area in such a manner as to protect both pedestrians and vehicular traffic. If
work involves the curb and/or apron adjacent to the roadway, such barricades
shall be properly lighted during night hours. The property owner or property
owner's contractor shall maintain the work zone in compliance with PennDOT work
zone traffic control requirement.
   3.   Obstructions. Where existing structures such as light standards,
utility poles and fire hydrants are within the limits of curb or sidewalk
construction, a rubberized expansion joint, not less than ½ inch in width,
shall be placed completely around said obstruction for the full depth of the
concrete. Expansion joint material shall be placed to form a square four inches
from each side of the obstruction. No obstruction other than those listed above
shall be permitted to be placed with a sidewalk. No structure shall be
constructed within the limits of the curb. When obstruction including, but not
limited to railroad ties, concrete gutter and brick crosswalks are encountered
during excavation, such obstructions shall be completely removed by the
property owner or property owner's contractor and the excavated area backfilled
in compliance with this Part. Disturbance to the subgrade area below proposed
sidewalk shall be filled with suitable material and compacted to the
satisfaction of the Borough. Tree stumps and roots shall be completely removed
by the property owner or property owner's contractor in compliance with
Subsection 8 below of this Section.
   4.   Downspouts and Rain Gutters. Downspouts may only be placed within the
sidewalk and curb along Borough roads when necessary to resolve existing
conditions and when specifically approved by the Borough Public Works Director
or Borough Engineer. A one-inch reveal shall be maintained between the paved
street surface and the bottom of the downspout pipe. Construction joints shall
be placed on each side of the pipe. If insufficient grade and/or cover exists
for placement of downspouts within the sidewalk and curb, rain gutters within
the sidewalks and curb may be considered if approved by the Borough Public
Works Director or Borough Engineer.
   5.   Street Signs. The property owner or property owner's contractor is
responsible for knowing and marking the location of existing street signs
before construction begins. Where existing street signs are within the limits
of the sidewalk construction, a four-inch polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe sleeve
shall be installed by the property owner and/or property owner's contractor.
This pipe sleeve shall extend the entire depth of the concrete. In addition,
sleeve shall be installed as directed by the Borough to comply with MUTCD
standards. The property owner or property owner's contractor shall contact the
Borough in the event of questions about the installation of signs and
associated sleeves. If a stop sign or other traffic control sign is involved
within the project limits, temporary provisions shall be made to keep such sign
erect and visible to motorists. No sign sleeves shall be installed within the
limits of the curb. This installation shall not interfere with compliance with
the ADA for a minimum clear area and minimum vertical clearance.
   6.   ADA Compliant Curb Ramps. ADA compliance ramps shall be provided at
each intersection corner and driveways other than those classified as “minimum
use” per PennDOT. Curb ramps shall be installed in accordance with PennDOT
Standards for Roadway Construction, Publication 72M (RC-67M), latest edition,
and applicable ADA standards.
   7.   Monuments. No roadway monuments or property corners shall be covered or
disturbed by the construction of a sidewalk or curb unless they are
appropriately reestablished.
   8.   Tree Stumps and Roots. When tree stumps and/or roots are encountered in
excavation for curbs or sidewalks, they shall be removed by stump grinder and/
or excavation. Grindings shall be completely removed. Spaces adjacent to the
sidewalk shall be filled with acceptable material placed in six-inch layers and
each layer shall be thoroughly compacted before the next layer is placed. The
final layer of backfill in landscaped areas shall consist of previously
stripped or new topsoil placed to meet the final grade. On the street side of
the curb, the property owner or the property owner's contractor shall comply
with all applicable requirements of the Borough to restore or establish the
roadway.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 305.   CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND REPLACEMENT METHODS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   1.   Sidewalks.
      A.   Sidewalks shall be made of concrete with a minimum width of four
feet six inches and constructed in accordance with PennDOT standards for
Roadway Construction Publication 72M (RC-67M), latest edition, and associated
PennDOT publication 408 Specifications, latest edition, unless specifically
noted otherwise within this Part. Additional width greater than four feet six
inches may be required by the Board when deemed necessary based on anticipated
pedestrian traffic patterns and trip generators.
      B.   All concrete sidewalks shall have a minimum thickness of four inches
of concrete except across driveway aprons where the concrete shall have a
minimum thickness of six inches and have steel reinforcing mesh placed within
the driveway area. Appropriate adjustments in the sidewalk thickness are
required in areas of truncated dome insets as referenced inapplicable PennDOT
standards. All truncated dome inserts shall be of a color and type approved by
the Borough.
      C.   Excavations for sidewalks shall be made to the required depth and a
layer of compacted aggregate stone base not less than four inches thick shall
be placed on stable subgrade and thoroughly tamped and consolidated prior to
placement.
      D.   Where a tree lawn is provided, it shall be planted with groundcover
and shall always be kept closely trimmed. Planting of trees in the tree lawn
area shall be as approved on the permit. Planting of shrubs or hedges shall be
prohibited. Placement of any non-plant matter within the tree lawn shall be
approved by the Borough prior to placement.
      E.   Planting of specified tree species shall be permitted within
sidewalks without tree lawns provided that such shall be planted in
consultation with the Public Works Director with conditions noted on the
approved permit.
      F.   All sidewalks on Main Street shall extend from the building line to
the curb: and on all other streets the sidewalks shall, wherever practicable,
be laid to the center line of the area between the building line and the curb.
If the sidewalk is laid to the curb, it shall extend in to the building line a
sufficient distance to be in line with a sidewalk laid to the center of an area
between the building line and a curb as provided above, and the remaining space
between the sidewalk and the curb or building line shall be kept free and clean
and safe for pedestrians.
      G.   Wherever possible, property owners shall maintain a uniform design
for curb and sidewalk replacement within the block. If a grass strip exists
between the curb and sidewalk, the grass strip shall be preserved when the
sidewalk is replaced, particu larly when the majority of sidewalks within a
block contain similar grass strips. If a sidewalk without a grass strip is
replaced and a majority of sidewalks within the block have a grass strip, a
grass strip shall be provided.
      H.   Sidewalks shall have a uniform fall no less than 1% and no more than
2% from the back edge of the sidewalk toward the curb, unless directed
otherwise by the Borough. The grass strip between the sidewalk and the curb
shall conform to the same slope.
      I.   Rubberized expansion joint material ½ - inch thick shall be placed
no more than every 20 linear feet of sidewalk, at the beginning and end of the
radius, and at a change in horizontal alignment and property lines.
Construction joints shall be placed at a maximum distance of five linear feet.
Construction joints may be hand-tooled or saw-cut, but must be established to a
depth equal to a minimum depth of one-inch or a quarter of the thickness of the
concrete slab.
      J.   Sidewalks across driveways shall be constructed in accordance with
PennDOT Standards for Roadway Construction, Publication 72M (RC-67M), latest
edition, and applicable ADA standards. The cross slope of the sidewalk within
the driveway apron shall not exceed 2%. The sidewalk across the driveway and
the driveway apron shall be a minimum of six-inch thick concrete and on a six-
inch thick layer of compacted aggregate stone base with steel reinforcing mesh.
      K.   Removal and replacement of existing pavement, sidewalks, drives,
slabs and curbs shall be to the nearest existing joint on either side of the
excavation, not damaged by the construction. Removals shall have no horizontal
dimension less than 3 feet and shall not leave any existing portion in place
less than 3 feet as measured to the nearest joint or edge.
   2.   Curbs.
      A.   Vertical curbs to be installed shall be construction in accordance
with PennDOT Standards for Roadway Construction, Publication 72M (RC-64M),
latest edition, and associated PennDOT Publication 408 Specifications, latest
edition, unless specifically noted otherwise within this Part. Portions of the
curb which are replaced between two satisfactory sections shall have the same
exposed surface and reveal as the existing curb when directed by the Borough.
Replacement of existing slant curb shall be consistent with current standards.
      B.   Rubberized expansion joint material shall be placed in curbs at the
end of each workday, at the beginning and end of a radius, at a change in
horizontal alignment.
      C.   Excavations shall be made to the required depth and the material
upon which the curb is to be constructed shall be stable and have a layer of 2B
crushed stone not less than four inches thick which shall be placed and
thoroughly tamped and compacted prior to the laying of the curb.
      D.   Asphalt removal within the street to accommodate excavation and full
depth forming for curb installation shall be parallel to the finish curb and
not less than 12 inches nor more than 24 inches from the face of the curb and
shall be saw-cut in a straight-line full depth. All material excavated from the
street area shall be replaced with PennDOT approved 2A modified stone and
compacted to a depth determined by the Borough. The cross section and material
of the asphalt roadway restoration from the existing or disturbed cartway edge
to the face of the curb shall be structurally equal or better than the roadway
material that was removed. At a minimum, the pavement replacement shall be
placed on prepared subgrade and consist of No. 2A Coarse Aggregate compacted to
a 6-inch or greater depth, warm-mix asphalt base course (25mm) compacted to a
4-1/2-inch minimum depth, and a warm-mix asphalt wearing course compacted to a
1-1/2-inch minimum depth.
      E.   A depressed curb shall be constructed across every private
residential and minimum use driveway and shall be installed with steel
reinforcement as depicted in the PennDOT RC Standards. The curb shall remain at
least 1-1/2 inches above the finished street surface to accommodate gutter flow
unless identified for ADA access.
      F.   Removal and replacement of existing pavement, sidewalks, drive,
slabs and curbs shall be to the nearing existing joint on either side of the
excavation, not damaged by the construction. Removals shall have no horizontal
dimension less than 3 feet and shall not leave any existing portion in place
less than 3 feet as measured to the nearest joint or edge.
   3.   Brick Sidewalks.
      A.   Property owners may install brick paving in place of concrete
sidewalk only when directly authorized by the Borough.
      B.   The specific methods, manner, and standards of construction shall be
approved by the Borough prior to installation.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 306.   SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   Material Specifications. All materials shall conform to PennDOT
Publication 408, latest edition. All sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed
of Class A Concrete with required air entrainment. Calcium Chloride is
prohibited for use in repair or construction.
   2.   Forms. All forms must be well aligned and fully supported. Within areas
where sidewalks have curved alignments, the forms must be smooth with no
observable or abrupt changes in direction.
   3.   Finishing. All forms shall be removed within 24 hours after the
concrete has been placed and minor defects addressed.
   4.   Curing. Concrete curbs and sidewalks shall be protected from rain with
plastic or similar material. Curing compound may be applied to retain moisture
in concrete to allow complete hydration of the cement. Plastic, burlap or other
types of moisture barrier shall be used to maintain concrete wet during the
curing process for at least 7 days after pouring if curing compound is not
used. No concrete shall be placed when the temperature is below 40 degrees F.
or inconsistent with the standards outlined within the applicable sections
PennDOT Publication 408. To help prevent spalling and deterioration of concrete
surface from winter damage, a concrete hardener may be applied 28 days after
concrete is poured.
   5.   Backfilling and Trench Restoration. After the concrete has cured
sufficiently, spaces adjacent to the curb and sidewalk shall be refilled with
acceptable material in layers of not more than 4 inches in depth. Each layer
shall be thoroughly compacted to the required elevation on the roadway side of
all curbs, backfill shall consist of PennDOT approved 2A modified stone placed
and compacted in 6-inch layers to within 4 inches of the existing road surface
or as required to match required asphalt restoration. The contractor shall
temporarily fill the area with stone until permanent trench restoration is
completed. In such circumstances, the contractor may be required to temporarily
fill the excavated area with cold patch asphalt if the duration of time between
the temporary and permanent restoration of the subject area is anticipated to
be more than 14 days. All roadway restoration shall conform to Borough
standards.
   6.   Expansion Joints. Where a sidewalk abuts the curb, a building, wall or
other permanent structure, a pre-molded rubberized expansion joint ½-inch in
thickness shall be placed between the curb and sidewalk for the full length of
such permanent structure or feature.
   7.   Scoring and Finishing. Where sidewalk is installed as part of an
enhancement area with specific uniform standards established, all sidewalk and
curbing shall be installed in accordance with those applicable standards. This
may include not be limited to troweled frame borders, special broom finishes,
scoring, etc.
   8.   Concrete Color. Coloring of concrete for curbs and/or sidewalks shall
be prohibited unless specifically approved by the Borough.
   9.   Stamped Decorative Patterned Concrete. Stamped concrete for curbs and/
or sidewalks shall be prohibited unless specifically approved by the Borough.
   10.   Borough Observation. After compacted stone base and all forms have
been set and prior to pouring of any concrete, the property owner or the
property owner's contractor shall contact the Borough office to schedule an
observation. In cases where there is concern regarding the stability of the
subgrade soil or substantial disturbance to the subgrade occurs the Borough
will request to verify the stability of the subgrade soil prior to placement of
stone base. The Borough shall be provided with a minimum 24 hours' prior notice
to the on-site expected concrete delivery time. The property owner and/or
property owner's contractor shall complete all corrective actions outlined by
the Borough representative and if necessary, shall notify the Borough that the
site is ready for follow- up observation. Notice to the Borough for follow-up
observation shall be provided with a minimum 24 hours' prior notice. All
required follow-up observations shall be completed prior to the pouring of
concrete. Concrete pour tickets from the trucks delivering concrete verifying
the concrete mixture shall be made available to the Borough representative upon
request. A final observation shall be completed after concrete has set and
cleanup has been completed.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 307.   AUTHORIZATION FOR OTHER CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
The Board may, by resolution or by motion, authorize the construction of curbs
and sidewalks other than specified herein upon written request from the
property owner.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 308.   MANDATORY RECONSTRUCTION OF CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   1.   Prior to street improvements, including bituminous asphalt overlay, the
Borough shall require, upon 120 days written notification to the property
owner, that curb and/or sidewalk be replaced that does not have a normal life
expectancy of more than five years, has substandard or hazardous conditions or
vertical curb does not have a minimum exposed surface or reveal of 5 ½ inches.
If, in the opinion of the Borough Public Works Director or Borough Engineer,
milling of the existing street surface can be satisfactorily achieved, the
minimum reveal may be reduced to the extent of the proposed milling depth.
      A.   Vertical variations or changes in level of ½ inch or greater within
the sidewalk or between slabs of sidewalk and/or curb is hereby declared a
hazard to public safety and shall be corrected in accordance with the
specifications contained herein and applicable ADA standards. Vertical
variations over 1/4 inch along accessible routes shall be beveled in accordance
with ADA standards. In circumstances where the vertical separation within the
sidewalk or between slabs of sidewalk and/or curb is less than or equal to one
inch, the grinding down of the vertical separation may be permitted in lieu of
replacement if specifically authorized by the Borough.
      B.   The Borough Public Works Director or Borough Engineer shall
determine which curbs and sidewalks do not meet the specifications required
above or have substantial spalling or deterioration (+/- 25%) and shall notify
the respective owner of necessary action; however, not receiving notice shall
not relieve the property owner from maintaining sidewalk and/or curb on their
respective properties in good repair and condition free of hazard.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 309.   FAILURE TO COMPLY.
Whenever the owner or owners of any property in the Borough fail to comply with
any of the requirements in this Part, the Board may cause notice to be served
upon such owner or owners, their agent or tenant, in the manner prescribed by
law, setting forth specifically in what respect such owner or owners have
failed to comply with any of the above requirements and what work such owner or
owners are required to do to affect such compliance. In the event of the
failure or neglect of any such owner or owners to comply with the terms and
conditions of such notice within 20 days from the date of service of such
notice in the case of new work, or within 10 days from the date of service
thereof in the case of repair work, the Board may cause such work to be done at
the cost of the owner or owners of such property, and the cost thereof and 10%
additional, together with all charges and expenses, shall be collected from
such owner or owners by the Borough, which may file a municipal claim therefor
or collect the same by a civil action, as the Board may direct.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 310.   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person who violates a provision of this Part or who fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof shall be liable upon summary conviction
therefor to fines and penalties of:
      A.   Not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus all costs of
prosecution for a first offense,
      B.   Not less than $200 nor more than $ 1,000 plus all costs of
prosecution for a second offense, and
      C.   Not less than $300 nor more than $1,000 plus all costs of
prosecution for a third offense, which fines and penalties may be collected as
provided by law.
   2.   All fines and penalties collected for violation of this Part shall be
paid over to the Borough Treasurer. Each day that a violation continues and
each section of this Part which is violated shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   This Part may also be enforced by an action in equity brought in the
Cambria County Court of Common Pleas.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
§ 311.   CUMULATIVE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
The Borough's rights and remedies under this Part and as otherwise provided by
law shall be cumulative, and the pursuit of one shall not be deemed to preclude
the subsequent pursuit of any other right or remedy.
(Ord. 2-2023, 10/16/2023)
PART 4
SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS AND ROOFS
§ 401. SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS AND ROOFS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit snow
or ice to remain upon the sidewalks for a longer period than 6 hours after the
same shall have ceased to fall or form; provided, that snow and ice falling or
forming after 6:00 in the evening shall be removed at any time before 10:00 in
the morning of the next day following; or to permit snow to lie upon the roof
of any building in such quantities or icicles to form so as to endanger the
safety of persons passing along the sidewalks. The duties of this Section shall
be upon the person, firm or corporation occupying or using the property along
or in front of which the sidewalk lies. If the property is vacant or
unoccupied, the duties shall be upon the owner or owners thereof.
   2.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed
5600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. [Ord. 3-1999]
(Ord. 200, 10/10/1955, Art. X, § 8; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 402. DEBRIS ON ALLEYS AND ROADWAYS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, entities or any person acting
under direct authorization of such person or entities to deposit or cause to be
deposited any snow, ice, grass, mud or any other debris onto any street or
alley within the Borough of Portage.
   2.   Any person, entities or any person who shall violate any provision of
this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $200. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4-2018, 10/1/2018)
PART 5
UNOPENED STREETS, ALLEYS OR ROADWAYS 1
 
Notes
     Editor’s Note: Ord. 2-2010, 5/3/2010, described its purpose as follows:
   
     “WHEREAS, the Borough has several unimproved roadways which have not been
  opened as public thoroughfares;
   
     “WHEREAS, the Borough Council has determined that the use of these unimproved
  roadways for vehicular traffic has become a public nuisance which endangers the
1 health. safety and welfare of Borough residents;
   
     “WHEREAS, Section 46202 of the Borough Code authorizes the Borough to regulate
  the use of Borough streets;
   
     “WHEREAS, Section 46723 of the Borough Code indicates that the laying out of a
  street, without opening same, shall create no right to public use of such
  street.”
§ 501.   TRAVEL ON UNOPENED STREET PROHIBITED.
Any unopened street, alley or roadway within the Borough shall not be traveled
upon by any member of the general public without the express written permission
of the Borough Council or its designated agent.
(Ord. 2-2010, 5/3/2010, § 1)
§ 502.   PENALTY.
Any person traveling without permission upon any unopened street, alley or
roadway shall, upon conviction, pay a fine not to exceed $300 plus the costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 2-2010, 5/3/2010, § 2)
§ 503.   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Part the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
   TRAVEL - the use of any motor vehicle or any other mode of transportation
which utilizes wheels.
   UNOPENED STREET - all streets, alleys and roadways within the Borough not
improved for travel, but placed on the Borough plan for future or prospective
use, or placed on the plan of a real estate project, or referred to in
individual deeds.
(Ord. 2-2010, 5/3/2010, § 3)
CHAPTER 22
SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 23
SWIMMING POOLS
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
CHAPTER 24
TAXATION, SPECIAL
PART 1
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Authority
   §
103.   Definitions
   §
104.   Imposition of Tax; Interest
   §
105.   Exempt Parties
   §
106.   Excluded Transactions
   §
107.   Documents Relating to Associations or Corporations and Members,
Partners, Stockholders or Shareholders Thereof
   §
108.   Acquired Company
   §
109.   Credits Against Tax
   §
110.   Extension of Lease
   §
111.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale
   §
112.   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   §
113.   Statement of Value
   §
114.   Civil Penalties
   §
115.   Lien
   §
116.   Enforcement
   §
117.   Regulations
PART 2
PER CAPITA TAX
   §
201.   Definitions
   §
202.   Imposition of Tax
   §
203.   Collection of Tax
   §
204.   Bond
   §
205.   Tax Duplicates
   §
206.   Notice to Taxpayers
   §
207.   Discount; Penalty
   §
208.   Tax Collector's Statement
   §
209.   Authority of Tax Collector
   §
210.   Collection From Employers
   §
211.   Local Tax Collection Law
   §
212.   Compensation of Tax Collector
PART 3
EARNED INCOME AND NET PROFITS TAX
   §
301.   Authorization
   §
302.   Incorporation by Reference
   §
303.   Imposition of Tax
   §
304.   Administration; Powers and Duties of Officer
   §
305.   Effective Date
PART 4
REAL ESTATE TAX CERTIFICATIONS AND DUPLICATES
   §
401.   Tax Collector Appointed
PART 5
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
   §
501.   Short Title
   §
502.   Definitions
   §
503.   Levy of Tax
   §
504.   Exemption and Refunds
   §
505.   Duty of Employers to Collect
   §
506.   Returns
   §
507.   Dates for Determining Tax Liability and Payment
   §
508.   Self-employed Individuals
   §
509.   Individuals Engaged in More than One Occupation or Employed in More than
One Political Subdivision
   §
510.   Nonresidents Subject to Tax
   §
511.   Administration of Tax
   §
512.   Suits for Collection
   §
513.   Violations and Penalties
   §
514.   Interpretation
PART 1
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known as the "Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance of the Borough
of Portage." (Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 1)
§ 102.   AUTHORITY.
A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon the
transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within the Borough
of Portage regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer took
place, as authorized by Article XI-D, "Local Real Estate Transfer Tax," 72 P.S.
§ 8101 et seq.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 2)
§ 103.   DEFINITIONS.
   ASSOCIATION - a partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent's estate.
   CORPORATION - a corporation, joint-stock association, business trust or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States or any other state, territory, foreign country or dependency.
   DOCUMENT - any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers,
demises, vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real
estate, but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other
instruments of like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release
thereof to the debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to
the grantee until the total consideration specified in the contract has been
paid or any cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a
period of time exceeding 30 years, or instruments which solely grant, vest or
confirm a public utility easement. "Document" shall also include a declaration
of acquisition required to be presented for recording §
102.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION - a corporation of which at least 75% of its assets
are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75% of each class of
stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      A.   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing.
      B.   The raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities.
      C.   Fur farming.
      D.   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations.
      E.   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY - any individual, such individual's brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual's parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   PERSON - every natural person, association or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment or both, the term
"person," as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE -
      A.   All lands, tenements or hereditaments within this Borough including,
without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals, oil, gas,
quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees and other
improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage or law pass with a
conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery and equipment
in an industrial plant.
      B.   A condominium unit.
      C.   A tenant-stockholder's interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
REAL ESTATE COMPANY - a corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate, 90% or more of the
ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      A.   Derives 60% or more of its annual gross receipts from the ownership
or disposition of real estate.
      B.   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE -
      A.   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold.
      B.   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years but
which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right to
extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold including, without limitation, a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TRANSACTION - the making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE -
      A.   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm's length for
actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor, paid or
to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing before the
transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying indebtedness is
assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where such liens or
other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged against real
estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth a nominal
consideration, the “value” thereof shall be determined from the price set forth
in or actual consideration for the contract of sale.
      B.   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon the
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties, or the real estate of an acquired
company, the actual monetary worth of the real estate is determined by
adjusting the assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax
purposes for the common level ratio factor developed by the Pennsylvania Depart
ment of Revenue for Pennsylvania realty transfer tax base calculations.
      C.   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate, the
value of which is not determinable under subsection (A) or (B), the actual
monetary worth of such interest.
      D.   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principal of the grantor of a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 3)
§ 104.   IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   1.   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document, or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1% of
the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be
payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for recording or
within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an
acquired company.
   2.   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds whereon the
date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax and the signature of the
collecting agent shall be set forth. [Ord. 3-1999]
   3.   It is the intent of this Part that the entire burden of the tax imposed
herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in
the Local Tax Enabling Act, Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, 53 P.S. § 6901
et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall impose or hereafter
shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer then the tax levied by the
Borough Council under the authority of that Act shall during the time such
duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, be ½
of the rate and such ½ shall become effective without any action on the part of
the Borough Council; provided, however, that the Borough Council and any other
political subdivision which impose such tax on the same person or transfer may
agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates to ½ of the rate herein
provided, they will impose respectively different rates, the total of which
shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted under the “Local Tax Enabling Act.”
   4.   Any tax imposed under subsection (1) that is not paid by the date the
tax is due shall bear interest as prescribed for interest on delinquent
municipal claims under the Act of May 16, 1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153) (53 P.S. §
7101 et seq.), as amended, known as “The Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act.”
The interest rate shall be the lesser of the interest rate imposed upon
delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of the Act of April 9, 1929
(P.L. 343, No. 176) (72 P.S. § 806), as amended, known as the “Fiscal Code,” or
the maximum interest rate permitted under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens
Act for tax claims. [Ord. 5-2007]
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999; and by Ord. 5-
2007, 3/5/2007, § 1)
§ 105.   EXEMPT PARTIES.
The United States, the Commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities, agencies
or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax imposed by
this Part. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall not, however,
relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the tax.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 5)
§ 106.   EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   1.   The tax imposed by §
104 shall not be imposed upon:
      A.   A transfer to the Commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments provided said reconveyance is made within 1
year from the date of condemnation.
      B.   A document which the Borough of Portage is prohibited from taxing
under the Constitution or statutes of the United States.
      C.   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district or
county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale.
      D.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest.
      E.   A transfer or division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by
cotenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess.
      F.   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or spouse of a brother or sister, and between a grandparent and grandchild or
the spouse of such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee
within 1 year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such
transfer.
      G.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent's devisee or heir.
      H.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of an
ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if the
transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries.
      I.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to
a beneficiary of an ordinary trust.
      J.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee.
      K.   A transfer:
         (1)   For no or nominal actual consideration between principal and
agent or straw party; or,
         (2)   From or to an agent or straw party where, if the agent or straw
party were his principal, no tax would be imposed under this Part.
Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or statement of
value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the grantee from, or
for the benefit of, his principal, there is a rebuttable presumption that the
property is the property of the grantee in his individual capacity if the
grantee claims an exemption from taxation under this subsection.
      L.   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation of
a corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where
the Department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this Part.
      M.   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held of
record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his interest in or ownership of the real estate being conveyed
and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the association has
been held by the grantee for more than 2 years.
      N.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit
industrial development agency or authority
      O.   A transfer front a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if:
         (1)   The grantee shall directly use such real estate for the primary
purpose of manufacturing, fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing,
research and development, transportation, energy conversion, energy production,
pollution control, warehousing or agriculture; and,
         (2)   The agency or authority has the fall ownership interest in the
real estate transferred.
      P.   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person.
      Q.   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
      R.   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities.
      S.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to
a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least 75% of each class of the stock thereof.
      T.   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company or family farm corporation.
      U.   A transaction wherein the tax is $1 or less.
      V.   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas or
minerals and assignments thereof.
   2.   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this Section, the true,
full and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas cr minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 6)
§ 107.   DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
Except as otherwise provided in §
106, documents which make, confirm or evidence any transfer or demise of title
to real estate between associations or corporations and the members, partners,
shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the purposes of
this Part, corporations and associations are entities separate from their
members, partners, stockholders and shareholders.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 7)
§ 108.   ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   1.   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of 3 years.
   2.   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this Part.
   3.   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax
Declaration of Acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 8)
§ 109.   CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   1.   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him within the preceding year
as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him shall be given to
him toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   2.   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as a consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   3.   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   4.   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was previously
sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount of the tax
paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax due upon
the deed.
   5.   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given under
this Section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is greater
than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be allowed.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 9)
§ 110.   EXTENSION OF LEASE.
In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or option
to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the lessee
is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is established.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 10)
§ 111.   PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the State realty transfer tax and the sheriff or other
officer conducting said sale shall pay the tax herein imposed out of the first
moneys paid to him in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the sale are
insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall be
liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 11)
§ 112.   DUTIES OF RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   1.   The tax imposed under §
104(1) and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511),
as amended, known as the “Local Tax Enabling Act”; provided, that if the
correct amount of tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, Portage Borough, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971
(72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to determine, collect and enforce the tax,
interest and penalties. [Ord. 5-2007]
   2.   In order to ascertain the amount of the taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   3.   On or before the tenth of each month, the recorder shall pay over to
the Borough of Portage all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2% for
use of the County, together with a report containing the information as is
required by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in reporting collections of the
Pennsylvania realty transfer tax. The 2% commission shall be paid to the
County.
   4.   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the recorder shall rerecord the deed or record
the additional realty transfer tax form only when both the State and local
amounts and a rerecording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Ord. 3-1987, 1D/12/1987, § 12; as amended by Ord. 5-2007, 3/5/2007, § 2)
§ 113.   STATEMENT OF VALUE.
Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for recording
shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true, full and
complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part. A copy
of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value may be submitted for
this purpose. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any excludable
real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on family
relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement of value executed
by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such connection
and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the reason, if
any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 13)
§ 114.   CIVIL PENALTIES.
   1.   If any part of any underpayment of taxes imposed by this Part is due to
fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50% of the
underpayment.
   2.   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this Part
on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure is due to
reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the amount of such tax
if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 5% for each
additional month or fraction thereof during which such failure continues, not
exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 14)
§ 115.   LIEN.
The tax imposed by this Part shall become a lien upon the lands, tenements or
hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated, wholly or in
part within the boundaries of the Borough of Portage, which lands, tenements,
hereditaments or interest therein, are described in or conveyed by or
transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed and
levied by this Part, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under this
Part is due and payable, and continue until discharged by payment, or in
accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal or
tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of Cambria County, in accordance with
the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. § 7101 et
seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10 /12/1987, § 15)
§ 116.   ENFORCEMENT.
All taxes imposed by this Part, together with interest and penalties prescribed
herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are recovered.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 16)
§ 117.   REGULATIONS.
The Recorder of Deeds of Cambria County is charged with enforcement and
collection of tax and is empowered to promulgate and enforce reasonable
regulations for enforcement and collection of the tax. The regulations which
have been promulgated by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue under 72 P.S .§
8101-C et seq. are incorporated into and made a part of this Part.
(Ord. 3-1987, 10/12/1987, § 17; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 2
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 201.   DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall have, for the
purpose of this Part, the meaning herein indicated:
   PERSON - any male or female natural person.
   TAXPAYER - includes any person required hereunder to pay the per capita tax.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 1)
§ 202.   IMPOSITION OF TAX.
A per capita tax of $5 upon each and every resident of the Borough of Portage
over 18 years of age, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes levied
and assessed by the Borough of Portage pursuant to any other law of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, is hereby levied and assessed for the calendar
year 1973 and for each calendar year thereafter.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 2; as amended by Ord. 299, 11/6/1972, § 2)
§ 203.   COLLECTION OF TAX.
Collection of said tax herein imposed shall be made by the Tax Collector of the
Borough of Portage in the same manner and at the time as other taxes are
collected as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended and
supplemented.
(Ord. 264. 6/6/1966, § 3)
§ 204.   BOND.
The Tax Collector shall give bond secured and conditioned for the collection
and payment of such taxes as provided by law for other Borough taxes.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 4)
§ 205.   TAX DUPLICATES.
The entry of said per capita tax in the tax duplicate and issuance of said
duplicate to the Tax Collector shall constitute his warrant for the collection
of said per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 5)
§ 206.   NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS.
The Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers at the same time and in
the same manner as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended
and supplemented.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 6)
§ 207.   DISCOUNT; PENALTY.
All taxpayers subject to the payment of the per capita tax herein levied and
assessed shall be entitled to a discount of 2% of the amount of such tax upon
making payment of the whole amount thereof within 2 months after the date of
the tax notice. All taxpayers who fail to make payment of any such taxes
charged against them for a period of 4 months after the date of the tax notice
shall be charged a penalty of 5%, which penalty shall be added to the taxes by
the Tax Collector and be collected hint The unpaid balance shall bear interest
at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 7)
§ 208.   TAX COLLECTOR'S STATEMENT.
The Tax Collector shall keep a correct amount of all per capita tax collected
by authority of this Part and shall remit the said taxes to the Treasurer of
the Borough of Portage, by separate statements at the same time as other taxes
are remitted.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 8)
§ 209.   AUTHORITY OF TAX COLLECTOR.
The Tax Collector shall be and is hereby empowered with the authority to
collect said tax by distress and sell all goods and chattels of the taxpayer as
provided therefor by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended and
supplemented, and to sue for this recovery of taxes due and unpaid under this
Part. Where suit is brought for the recovery of any such tax the persons liable
therefor shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection and the
interest and penalties herein imposed. In the collection of any judgment for
such delinquent tax the defendant therein shall not be entitled to the benefit
of any exemption, appraisement law or stay of execution.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 9)
§ 210.   COLLECTION FROM EMPLOYERS.
There is hereby conferred upon the Tax Collector the power and authority to
demand, receive and collect from all corporations, political subdivisions,
associations, companies, firms or individuals employing persons owing per
capita taxes, or if in possession of unpaid commissions or earnings belonging
to any person owing per capita taxes, upon the presentation of written notice
or demand containing the name of the taxable and the amount of the tax due.
Upon the presentation of such notice and demand it shall be the duty of such
corporation, political subdivision, association, company, firm or individual to
deduct from the wages, commissions or earnings of such individual employees
then owing or that shall within 60 days thereafter become due, or from any
unpaid commissions or earnings of any taxable in its or his possession, a sum
sufficient to pay the respective amount of the per capita taxes and the Tax
Collector of the Borough of Portage, within 60 days after such notice shall be
given. The employer shall be entitled to deduct not more than 2% for his
expenses for such monies paid over to the Tax Collector. Upon the failure of
such employer to make such deduction when properly notified as herein provided,
such employer shall forfeit and pay the amount of such tax for each as herein
provided, which amount maybe recovered by an action of assumpsit in a suit to
be entered by the Tax Collector on behalf of the Council of the Borough of
Portage.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 10)
§ 211.   LOCAL TAX COLLECTION LAW.
It is the intent of this Part arid there is hereby conferred upon the Tax
Collector, all the powers, together with all the duties and obligations to the
same extent and as fully as provided for in the Local Tax Collection Law of
1945, as amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 11)
§ 212.   COMPENSATION OF TAX COLLECTOR.
The Tax Collector shall receive as compensation for the collection of any taxes
and penalties herein imposed, 5% of all amounts collected under the terms and
provisions of this Part, except costs and penalties as hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 264, 6/6/1966, § 12; as amended by Ord. 3-2004, 6/7/2004, § 1)
PART 3
EARNED INCOME AND NET PROFITS TAX
§ 301.   AUTHORIZATION.
This Part is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Local Tax
Enabling Act, P.L. 1257, known as Act No. 511 of 1965, effective January 1,
1966, as thereafter amended through in Act 166 of 2002 and Act No. 32 of 2008,
53 P.S. § 6294.101 et seq. (known as the “Local Tax Enabling Act” and herein
referred to as the “Act”). The provisions contained herein are made for the
purpose of amending and supplementing Ord. 3-1999 adopted on 4/5/1999.
(Ord. 5-2011, 7/18/2011, § 1)
§ 302.   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
The Governing Body of Portage Borough hereby adopts by reference Act 32 (53
P.S. § 6924.101 through 53 P.S. § 6924.901) and its definitions, duties,
directives, rules, regulations, powers and penalties as if same had been set
forth fully herein.
(Ord. 5-2011, 7/18/2011, § 2)
§ 303.   IMPOSITION OF TAX.
A tax at a rate of 1% on each dollar is hereby imposed on all earned income and
net profits, as defined by Act 32, earned by residents of Portage Borough on
all earned income and net profits earned by nonresidents of Portage Borough for
work done or services performed or rendered in Portage Borough. All changes
shall remain in effect on a calendar year basis without annual reenactment
unless the rate of tax is subsequently charged.
(Ord. 5-2011, 7/18/2011, § 3)
§ 304.   ADMINISTRATION; POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICER.
The collection and administration of the tax provided for in this Part shall be
performed by the Tax Officer appointed by the Cambria County Tax Collection
Committee (“CCTCC”). Said Tax Officer shall receive such compensation for his
services and expenses as determined from time to time by the CCTCC. Such Tax
Officer shall administer and have powers and duties as provided for by Act 32
and the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 5-2011, 7/18/2011, § 4)
§ 305.   EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Part shall be effective January 1, 2012. It is the intention of the
governing body of Portage Borough that this Part shall provide procedural
modifications only to the previously adopted Earned Income Tax Ordinance, and
no gap as to imposition of the tax set forth herein should be inferred.
(Ord. 5-2011, 7/18/2011, § 6)
§ 306.   INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of 6% per
annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 1/2% of the
amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof during whioh the
tax remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. Where suit is brought for the
recovery of any such tax, the person liable therefor shall, in addition, be
liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein
imposed.
(Ord. 261, 12/6/1965: as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 307.   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   1.   Any person who fails, neglects, or refuses to make any declaration or
return required by this Part, any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to
register or to pay the tax deducted from his employees, or fails, neglects, or
refuses to deduct or withhold the tax from his employees, any person who
refuses to permit the officer or any agent designated by him to examine his
books, records and papers, and any person who knowingly makes any incomplete,
false or fraudulent return, or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the
full disclosure of the amount of his net profits or earned income in order to
avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed by this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$500 for each offense, and costs and, in default of payment, to be imprisoned
for a period not exceeding 30 days.
   2.   Any person who divulges any information which is confidential under the
provisions of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $500 for each offense and costs, and in default of
payment, to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding 30 days.
   3.   The penalties imposed under this Section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed by any other Section of this Part.
   4.   The failure of any person to receive or procure forms required for
making the declaration or returns required by this Part shall not excuse him
from making such declaration or return.
(Ord. 261, 12/6/1965; as revised by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
PART 4
REAL ESTATE TAX CERTIFICATIONS AND DUPLICATES
§ 401.   TAX COLLECTOR APPOINTED.
The Borough Council of Portage Borough appoints the locally-elected tax
collector, his/her predecessor or successor as the agent authorized to provide
and issue real estate tax certifications and duplicates, and hereby authorizes
said tax collector to assess, collect and retain, as compensation for providing
said service a fee of $10 per taxing year certified; further, a fee of $10 for
each tax duplication; and further, the fee of $20 for each nonsufficient fund
check received. Hereafter, Borough Council may from time to time revise said
fees by resolution.
(Ord. 1-2006, 2/6/2006)
PART 5
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 501.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Borough of Portage Local
Services Tax Ordinance.”
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 502.   DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases, when used in this Part, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context or language
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BOROUGH OF PORTAGE - the area within the corporate limits of the Borough of
Portage.
   COLLECTOR - the person, public employee or private agency designated by the
Borough of Portage to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED - the Department of Community and Economic Development of the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME - compensation as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, P.L. 1257, § 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER - an individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM - indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL - any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the Borough of Portage.
   NET PROFITS - the net income from the operation of a business, profession,
or other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION - any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type,
kind or character, including services, domestic or other, carried on or
performed within the corporate limits of the Borough of Portage for which
compensation is charged or received, whether by means of salary, wages,
commission or fees for services rendered.
   TAX - the local services tax at the rate fixed in §
503 of this Part.
   TAX YEAR - the period from January 1 until December 31 in any calendar year
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 503.   LEVY OF TAX.
For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and assessed,
commencing January 1, 2008, upon the privilege of engaging in an occupation
with a primary place of employment within the Borough of Portage during the tax
year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of time
during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may be
allocated by the Borough Council from time to time: (A) emergency services,
which shall include emergency medical services, police services and/or fire
services; (B) road construction and/or mainte nance; (C) reduction of property
taxes; or (D) property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Sub ch. F (relating
to homestead property exclusion). The Borough shall use no less than 25% of the
funds derived from the tax for emergency services. This tax is in addition to
all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the Borough of
Portage. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person may be employed.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 504.   EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   1.   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the Borough is less than $12,000 for any calendar year in
which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax for that calendar
year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from payment of the tax:
      A.   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be assigned a percentage of disability.
      B.   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this paragraph, “reserve component of the armed forces”
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   2.   Procedure to Claim Exemption.
      A.   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the Borough and with the
person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the Borough of less than
$12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. In
the event the Borough utilizes a tax collection officer, it shall provide a
copy of the exemption certificate to that officer. The exemption certificate
shall have attached to it a copy of all the employee’s last pay stubs or W-
2 forms from employment within the Borough for the year prior to the fiscal
year for which the employee is requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon
receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise instructed by the
Borough or except as required by paragraph (B), the employer shall not withhold
the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of the
calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by
the Borough.
      B.   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the Borough that the person has received earned income and net profits from
all sources within the Borough equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption
for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person of earned
income within the Borough in an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services tax from the
person under paragraph (C).
      C.   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under paragraph (B),
the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar year.
The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period after
receipt of the notification under paragraph (B), a lump sum equal to the amount
of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption claimed by
the person under this subsection, plus the per payroll amount due for that
first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll period for the
remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same amount
withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a person subject
to withholding of the tax under this paragraph is subsequently severed in that
calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding balance of tax
due, and the Borough may pursue collection under this Part.
      D.   Except as provided in paragraph (B), it is the intent of this
subsection that employers shall not be responsible for investigating exemption
certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any employee
from a local services tax.
   3.   Refunds. The Borough Manager, in consultation with the collector and
DCED, shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any
tax paid by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be
in accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The Borough Manager or the collector shall
determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 505.   DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   1.   Each employer within the Borough of Portage, as well as those employers
situated outside the Borough of Portage but who engage in business within the
Borough of Portage, is hereby charged with the duty of collecting the tax from
each of his employees engaged by him or performing for him within the Borough
of Portage and making a return and payment thereof to the collector. Further,
each employer is hereby authorized to deduct this tax from each employee in his
or her employ, whether said employee is paid by salary, wage or commission and
whether or not all such services are performed within the Borough of Portage.
   2.   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the combined rate of the tax
levied for the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by
the employer for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata
share, an employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each
payroll period to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax
shall be made on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the
person is engaging in an occupation, except as provided in subsection (4) of
this Section. For purposes of this subsection, “combined rate” shall mean the
aggregate annual rate of the tax levied by the school district and the Borough.
   3.   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   4.   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   5.   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person may be employed. The Borough shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of
payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   6.   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or for
the payment of the withheld tax money to the Borough if the failure to withhold
taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as to the
employee’s place or places of employ ment, the employee’s principal office or
where the employee is principally employed. Further, an employer shall not be
liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount exceeding the amount
withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the provisions of
subsection (2) of §
504 of this Part and this Section and remits the amount so withheld in
accordance with this Part.
   7.   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 506.   RETURNS.
Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the tax
on forms to be supplied to the employer by the collector. If an employer fails
to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this Part, the employer shall be
responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had been
originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 507.   DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 508.   SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the Borough of Portage shall be required to comply with this Part and
pay the pro rata portion of the tax due to the collector on or before the
thirtieth day following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 509.   INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day the
person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event a
person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent employment,
or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one political
subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect the local
services tax shall be in the following order:
      A.   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office or is principally employed.
      B.   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision.
      C.   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that calendar
year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes prima facie
certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 510.   NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places of
business outside of the Borough of Portage but who perform services of any type
or kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the Borough of Portage
do, by virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the
provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this Part with the same
force and effect as though they were residents of the Borough of Portage.
Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the Borough of Portage
and an employee of a nonresidential employer may, for the purpose of this Part,
be considered a self-employed person, and in the event his or her tax is not
paid, the Borough shall have the option of proceeding against either the
employer or employee for the collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 511.   ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   1.   The collector shall be appointed by resolution of the Borough Council.
It shall be the duty of the collector to accept and receive payments of this
tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him from each
employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax was received.
   2.   The collector is hereby charged with the administration and enforcement
of this Part and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to Borough Council
approval, to prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to
any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Part,
including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any employer
subject to this Part, the examination and correction of any return made in
compliance with this Part and any payment alleged or found to be incorrect or
as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred. Any person
aggrieved by any decision of the collector shall have the right to appeal to
the Court of Common Pleas of Cambria County as in other cases provided.
   3.   The collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 512.   SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   1.   In the event that any tax under this Part remains due or unpaid 30 days
after the due dates above set forth, the collector may sue for the recovery of
any such tax due or unpaid under this Part, together with interest and penalty.
   2.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of
6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date of
the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 513.   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by this
Part, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his or
her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to this
tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file any
return required by this Part shall be guilty of a violation and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days. The action to enforce the penalty
herein prescribed may be instituted against any person in charge of the
business of any employer who shall have failed or who refuses to file a return
required by this Part.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
§ 514.   INTERPRETATION.
   1.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to empower the
Borough of Portage to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation
not within the taxing power of the Borough under the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of the Common wealth of Pennsylvania.
   2.   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this Part shall be
held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as to any individual, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair the right to impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so
imposed on other persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 10-2007, 12/3/2007)
CHAPTER 25
TREES
PART 1
OBSTRUCTIONS OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   §
101.   Overhanging Tree Branches Unlawful
   §
102.   Demand to Comply
   §
103.   Authority of Borough to Trim Trees
   §
104.   Costs of the Borough
   §
105.   Penalties
   §
106.   Lien
PART 1
OBSTRUCTIONS OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 101.   OVERHANGING TREE BRANCHES UNLAWFUL.
Every person who owns, leases, occupies or is otherwise responsible for
maintenance of property within the Borough of Portage shall insure that no part
of the trees located on such property shall have branches or limbs extending or
overhanging any street, alley, sidewalks or passageway unless it is trimmed in
such a manner that the lowest extending or overhanging portion is at least 12
feet from the surface of the street, alley, sidewalk or passageway; and such
person shall also insure that any and all shrubs near any sidewalk are trimmed
to the property line next to the said sidewalk.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 1)
§ 102.   DEMAND TO COMPLY.
The Street Commissioner, upon investigation and determination, shall make
written demand upon the person responsible to immediately comply with the
regulations set forth in §
101.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 2)
§ 103.   AUTHORITY OF BOROUGH TO TRIM TREES.
If within 10 days following the demand by the Street Commissioner to comply
with the trimming regulations the said trimming is not completed or complied
with, the Street Commissioner shall have authority to trim any tree or shrub
which has not been trimmed.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 3)
§ 104.   COSTS OF THE BOROUGH.
If the Street Commissioner or the Borough of Portage is required to trim the
trees or shrubs as aforesaid, the person responsible shall be subject to the
cost to the Borough for said trimming and removal.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 4)
§ 105.   PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part,
or who shall fail to pay the cost of trimming and removal, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $600 plus costs
and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 5; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 106.   LIEN.
If the person responsible fails to pay the cost of trimming and or fine and
costs, the same shall be entered as a lien against the property by the
Solicitor.
(Ord. 243, 2/13/1962, § 6)
CHAPTER 26
WATER
PART 1
LITTLE CONEMAUGH RIVER WATERSHED STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
A.   General Provisions.
   §
101.   Short Title and Findings
   §
102.   Purpose
   §
103.   Authority
   §
104.   Applicability
   §
105.   Exemptions
   §
106.   Compatibility with Other Permit and Ordinance Requirements § 107.
Abrogation and Greater Restriction
B.   Definitions.
   §
111.   General
   §
112.   Definitions
C.   Stormwater Management Requirement
   §
121.   General Requirements
   §
122.   Technical Requirements
   §
123.   Calculation Methodology
D.   Drainage Plan Requirements, Submittal and Review Procedures.
   §
131.   General Requirements
   §
132.   Drainage Plan Content
   §
133.   Plan Submission
   §
134.   Drainage Plan Review and Approval
   §
135.   Modification of Plans
E.   Permit Requirements and Procedures.
   §
141.   Permit Requirements and Exemptions
   §
142.   Permit Issuance
   §
143.   Modification of Drainage Plans
   §
144.   Stormwater Management Occupancy Permit
   §
145.   Expiration and Renewal
   §
146.   Compliance and Guarantees
F.   Inspections.
   §
151.   Responsibility for Inspections
   §
152.   Suspension or Revocation of Permit
G.   Fees and Expenses.
   §
161.   General
   §
162.   Modification of Plans
   §
163.   Schedule of Fees
H.   Maintenance.
   §
171.   Maintenance by Individual or Multiple Ownership(s)
   §
172.   Maintenance Responsibilities
I.   Enforcement and Penalties.
   §
181.   Right-of-Entry
   §
182.   Enforcement
   §
183.   Notification
   §
184.   Enforcement Remedies and Penalties
Appendices
   
Appendix A.   Drainage Plan Pennit Application
   
Appendix B.   Stormwater Management Occupancy Permit
   
Appendix C.   Best Management Practices
   
Appendix D.   Little Conemaugh River Watershed Boundary Map
PART 2
BACKFLOW CONTROL POLICY
   §
201.   Findings
   §
202.   Short Title
   §
203.   Purpose and Intention
   §
204.   Enforcement of the Municipal Authority
   §
205.   Consumer Conditions and Requirements
   §
206.   Professional Installation, Testing and Inspection
   §
207.   Penalties
PART 1
LITTLE CONEMAUGH RIVER WATERSHED
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
A.   General Provisions.
§ 101.   SHORT TITLE AND FINDINGS.
   1.   This Part shall be known as the "Stormwater Management Ordinance for
Portage Borough."
   2.   The Borough Council of the Borough finds that:
      A.   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases flood flows and velocities,
contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying capacity of
streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public facilities to
carry and control stormwater, undermines floodplain management and flood
control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge and
threatens public health and safety.
      B.   A comprehensive program of stormwater management, including
reasonable regulation of development and activities that causes accelerated
erosion, is fundamental to the public health, safety, welfare and the
protection of the people of the Borough and all the people of the Commonwealth,
their resources and the environment.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 101)
§ 102.   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Part is to:
      A.   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community.
      B.   Control accelerated runoff/erosion from modifications to natural
terrains and the alteration of existing drainage from land developments.
      C.   Provide design, construction and maintenance criteria for permanent
and temporary onsite stormwater management facilities necessary to control
stormwater runoff.
      D.   Provide performance standards and design criteria for watershed -
wide stormwater management and planning.
      E.   Encourage the recharge of groundwater, where appropriate, and
prevent the degradation of groundwater quality.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 102)
§ 103.   AUTHORITY.
The Stormwater Management Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864, No. 167, provides
for the regulation of land development and stormwater and confers powers of
enforcement to the local municipalities.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 103)
§ 104.   APPLICABILITY.
   1.   This Part shall only apply to those areas of the Borough which are
located within the Little Conemaugh River drainage basin as delineated on the
Watershed Boundary Map provided as Appendix D of this Part.
   2.   This Part shall apply to permanent and temporary stormwater management
controls and facilities constructed as part of any of the activities listed in
this Section.
   3.   This Part contains only minimum stormwater runoff control criteria and
standards which are necessary or desirable from a total watershed perspective.
Additional stormwater management design criteria (i.e. inlet spacing, inlet
type, collection system details, etc.) which represent sound engineering
practice should be regulated as part of the general responsibilities of the
Borough Engineer.
   4.   The following activities are included within the scope of this Part:
      A.   Land development.
      B.   Subdivision.
      C.   Construction of new or additional impervious or semipervious
surfaces (driveways, parking lots, etc.).
      D.   Construction of new buildings or additions to existing buildings.
      E.   Diversion or piping of any natural or manmade channel.
      F.   Installation of stormwater controls and facilities or appurtenances
thereto.
      G.   Mining operations. (Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 134)
§ 105.   EXEMPTIONS.
   1.   The following activities are specifically exempt from this Part:
      A.   Any proposed regulated activity which would create 10,000 or less
square feet of additional impervious covet
      B.   Use of land for gardening for residential consumption.
      C.   Landscaping improvements which do not significantly alter the runoff
characteristics.
      D.   Agricultural activities such as growing crops, rotating crops,
filling of soil and grazing animals and other such activities are specifically
exempt from complying with the requirements of the Stormwater Management Act
when such activities are conducted in accordance with a conservation plan or
erosion and sedimentation control plan prepared by the County Conservation
District. The construction of buildings, parking lots or any activity that may
result in impervious surfaces which increase the rate and volume or stormwater
runoff should comply with the requirements of this Part.
      E.   Minor improvements to existing residential (single-family)
properties.
   2.   For the purpose of this Part, the creation of more than three lots
(irrespective of size) on which new construction of buildings or impervious
surfaces could take place at the present or in the future will be considered to
have an impervious surface greater than 10,000 square feet. Parcels shall he
considered from the date of the adoption of this Part irrespective of phasing
or the time frame for the subdivision process.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 105)
§ 106.   COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Permits and approvals issued pursuant to this Part do not relieve the applicant
of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for activities
regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act, permit or ordinance.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 106)
§ 107.   ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION.
This Part supersedes any provisions of existing ordinances currently in effect
with respect to stormwater management within the boundaries of the Little
Conemaugh River Watershed.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 107)
B.   Definitions.
§ 111.   GENERAL.
For the purpose of this Part, any word or term not defined shall be used with a
meaning of standard usage.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 201)
§ 112.   DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases shall have for the purpose of this Part the
following meaning:
   ACCELERATED EROSION - the removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of man's activity and the natural processes at a rate greater
than would occur because of the natural process alone.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES - the work of producing crops and raising livestock
including tillage, plowing, harrowing, pasturing and the installation of
conservation measures. Construction of new buildings or impervious area is not
considered an agricultural activity.
   ALTERATION - as applied to land, a change in topography as a result of the
moving of soil and rock from one location or position to another; also, the
changing of surface conditions by causing the surface to be more or less
impervious; land disturbance.
   APPLICANT - a landowner or developer who has filed an application for
approval to engage in any regulated activity as defined in §
104 of this Part.
   CHANNEL - a natural stream which conveys water; a ditch or open channel
excavated to convey water.
   CHANNEL EROSION - the widening, deepening and headward cutting of small
channels and waterways, due to erosion caused by moderate to large floods.
   CISTERN - art underground reservoir or tank for storing rainwater.
   COUNTY - the County of Cambria, Pennsylvania.
   CULVERT - a pipe, conduit or similar enclosed structure, including
appurtenant works which carry surface or stormwater.
   DAM - an artificial barrier, together with its appurtenant works,
constructed for the purpose of impounding or storing water or another fluid or
semifluid; or a refuse bank, fill or structure for highway, railroad or other
purposes which does not impound water or another fluid or semifluid.
   DEP - the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. (Ord. 3-1999)
   DESIGNEE (DESIGNER) - the agent of the Cambria County Planning Commission
and/or agent of the Borough Council involved with the administration, review or
enforcement of any provisions of this Part by contract or memorandum of
understanding.
   DESIGN STORM - the magnitude of precipitation from a storm event measured in
probability of occurrence (2 year, 10 year arid 25 year storm) and duration (24
hour), and used in computing stormwater management control systems.
   DETENTION BASIN - a basin designed to retard stormwater runoff by
temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate. A
detention basin can be designed to drain completely after a storm event, or it
can be designed to contain a permanent pool of water.
   DEVELOPER - a person or persons, partnership, association, corporation or
other entity, or any responsible person therein or agent thereof that
undertakes the activities covered by this Part.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE - the specific tract of land for which a regulated activity
is proposed.
   DISCHARGE - rate of flow, specifically fluid flow. A volume of fluid flowing
from a conduit or channel or being released from detention storage per unit of
time. Commonly expressed as cubic feet per second (C.F.S.), million gallons per
day (M.G.D.), gallons per minute (G.P.M.) or cubic meter per second (C.M.S.).
   DRAINAGE - interception and removal of excess surface water or groundwater
from land by artificial or natural means.
   DRAINAGE AREA -the contributing area to a single drainage basin, expressed
in acres, square miles or other units of area; also referred to as a catchment
area, watershed or river basin; the area served by a drainage system or by a
watercourse receiving storm and surface water.
   DRAINAGE BASIN - the area from which water is carried off by a drainage
system; a watershed or catchment area.
   DRY BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA (DRY BOTTOM BASIN) - a facility that is
designed to be normally dry and contains water only when excess stormwater
runoff occurs.
   EARTH DAM - a dam constructed of compacted soil materials.
   EFFLUENT - the discharge of outflow of water from ground or subsurface
storage.
   EMBANKMENT (FILL) - a bank of earth, rock or other material constructed
above the natural ground surface.
   ENGINEER (BOROUGH ENGINEER) - an experienced, licensed engineer or
engineering firm duly appointed as the engineer for local municipalities or the
qualified designated reviewing agent.
   ERODIBLE - susceptible to erosion.
   EROSION - the wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice
or other geological agents, including gravitational creep.
   EXCAVATION (CUT) - arty act by which soil or rock is cut into, dug,
quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced or relocated and shall include the
conditions resulting therefrom.
   FEE - a charge fixed by the Borough to review stormwater management plans.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDIES -a detailed Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) study is available for Portage Borough.
   FREEBOARD - a vertical distance between the elevation of the design
highwater and the top of a dam, levee, tank, basin or diversion ridge. The
space is required as a safety margin.
   GRADE - a slope, usually of a road, channel or natural ground specified in
percent and shown on plans as specified herein. (To) Grade - to finish the
surface of a roadbed, top of embankment or bottom of excavation.
   GRASSED WATERWAY - a natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow. covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water
from cropland.
   GROUNDWATER RECHARGE - replenishment of existing natural underground water
supplies.
   HYDROGRAPH - a plot of the discharge of the stream flow, discharge or runoff
versus time.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE - a surface which prevents the penetration of water into
the ground including roofs, concrete, asphalt, compacted shale, sidewalks, etc.
Any areas which may he designed to initially be semipervious (e.g. gravel,
crushed stone, porous pavement, etc.) shall be impervious areas for the purpose
of waiver evaluation.
   IMPOUNDMENT - a retention or detention basin designed to retain stormwater
runoff and release it at a controlled rate.
   INFILTRATION - the flow of a liquid into a substance through pores or other
openings, connoting flow into a soil in contradistinction to the word,
percolation, which connotes flow through a porous substance. The infiltration
capacity is expressed in terms of inches per inch.
   INFILTRATION STRUCTURE - a structure designed to direct runoff into the
ground (e.g., french drains, seepage pits, seepage trench).
   INLET - a surface connection to a closed drain. A structure at the diversion
end of a conduit. The upstream end of any structure through which water may
flow.
   INVERT ELEVATION - the vertical elevation of a pipe or orifice.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT -
      A.   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (1)   A group of two or more buildings; or,
         (2)   The division or allocation of land or space between or among two
or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose of
streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups or other
features.
      B.   A subdivision of land.
   LAND DISTURBANCE - any activity involving grading, tilling, digging or
filling of ground or stripping of vegetation or any other activity that causes
an alteration to the natural condition of the land.
   MAIN STEM (MAIN CHANNEL) - any stream segment or other runoff conveyance
facility used as a reach in the Lithe Conemaugh River watershed hydrologic
model.
   MANNING EQUATION in (MANNING FORMULA) - a method for the calculation of
velocity of flow (e.g. feet per second) and flow rate (e.g. cubic feet per
second) in open channels based upon channel shape, roughness, depth of flow and
slope. "Open channels" may include closed conduits so long as the flow is not
under pressure.
   MINING - the process of the extraction of soil or minerals from the earth,
or from waste or stockpiles, or from pits or banks for use offsite of a
subdivision, development site or land development.
   OPEN CHANNEL - a drainage element in which stormwater flows with an open
surface. Open channels include, but shall not be limited to, natural and
manmade drainage ways, swales, streams, ditches, canals and -pipes flowing
partly full.
   OUTFALL - point where water flows from a conduit, stream or drain.
   OUTLET - point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake, tidewater or
artificial d rain.
   OVERFLOW RATE - detention basin release rate divided by the surface area of
the basin. It can be thought of as an average flow rate through the basin.
   OWNER - a person who owns.
   PARKING LOT STORAGE - involves the use of impervious parking areas as
temporary impoundments with controlled release rates during rainstorms.
   PEAK DISCHARGE - the maximum rate of water flow at a given point and time
resulting from a storm event.
   PENN STATE RUNOFF MODEL (calibrated) - The computer-based hydrologic mode
technique adapted to the Little Conemaugh River watershed for the Act 167 Plan.
The model has been "calibrated" to reflect actual recorded flow values by
adjusting key model input parameters.
   PLAN - the Little Conemaugh River Watershed Stormwater Management Control
Plan (including narrative and exhibits).
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR - the entity set up specifically to review Act 167
drainage plans, inspect stormwater management structures and otherwise enforce
all regulations as outlined in this Part.
   PLANNING COMMISSION - the Planning Commission of Cambria County and the
Portage Area Planning Commission.
   CAMBRIA COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT - the conservation district serving
Cambria County
   CAMBRIA COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION - the Planning Commission serving Cambria
County or the County Planning Commission.
   PORTAGE AREA PLANNING COMMISSION.- the planning commission serving the
Portage area, comprised of representatives from Portage Borough and surrounding
municipalities.
   RATIONAL FORMULA - rainfall - runoff relation used to estimate peak flow
   REGULATED ACTIVITIES - actions or proposed actions which impact, upon proper
management of stormwater runoff, erosion and sediment pollution control and
activities in wetlands and which are governed by this Part as specified in §
104.
   RELEASE RATE - the percentage of the predevelopment peak rate of runoff for
a development site to which the postdevelopment peak rate of runoff must be
controlled to protect downstream areas.
   RETURN PERIOD - average interval of the time or number of years within which
an event will be equaled or exceeded.
   RISER - a vertical pipe extending from the bottom of a pond that is used to
control the discharge rate from the pond for a specified design storm.
   ROOFTOP DETENTION - temporary ponding and gradual release of stormwater
falling directly onto flat roof surfaces by incorporating controlled-flow roof
drains into building designs.
   RUNOFF - that part of precipitation which flows over the land.
   SCS - Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
   SEDIMENT - soils or other surficial materials transported by surface water
as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION - the process by which solid material, both mineral and
organic, is accumulated; transported, or deposited by moving wind, water or
gravity. Once this matter is deposited (or remains suspended in water), it is
usually referred to as "sediment."
   SEDIMENT BASIN - a temporary structure, barrier, dam, retention or detention
basin designed to retain sediment, designed and constructed in accordance with
PA Title 25, Chapter 102.
   SEDIMENT TRAP - a temporary sediment control device formed by excavation
and/or embankments or hay bales to intercept sediment laden runoff and retain
the sediment.
   SEEPAGE AREAS - grass-covered areas that infiltrate stormwater runoff and
allow particulate contaminants to settle.
   SEDIMENT POLLUTION - the placement, discharge or any other introduction of
sediment into the waters of the Commonwealth occurring from the failure to
design, construct, implement or maintain control measures and control
facilities in accordance with PA Title 25, Chapter 102.
   SHEETFLOW - runoff which flows over the ground surface as a thin, even
layer, not concentrated in a channel.
   SOIL COVER COMPLEX METHOD - a method of runoff computation developed by SCS,
and found in its publication "Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds," Technical
Release No. 55, SCS, June 1986 or latest edition.
   SOIL GROUP, HYDROLOGIC - a classification of soils by the Soil Conservation
Service into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from A soils, which
are very permeable and results in little runoff, to D soils, which are not very
permeable and results in much more runoff.
   SPILLWAY - a depression in the embankment of a pond or basin which is used
to pass peak discharge greater than the maximum design storm controlled by the
pond.
   STORM FREQUENCY - statistical procedure involved in interpreting the past of
a hydrological event to occurrences of that event in the future. See "return
period."
   STORM SEWER - a system of pipes or other conduits which carries intercepted
surface runoff, street water and other wash waters or drainage, but excludes
domestic sewage and industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONTROLS - all structural and nonstructural
appurtenances utilized to manage or control stormwater runoff including, but
not limited to, detention facilities, swales, diversion channels, streams,
culverts, bridges, infiltration facilities, cisterns and sediment basins.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN - the current plan for managing stormwater runoff
adopted by Cambria County and known as "Little Conemaugh River Act 167
Stormwater Management Plan."
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN - the plan prepared by the developer or his
representative indicating how stormwater runoff Will be managed at the
particular site of interest according to this Part.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF -that part of precipitation which flows over the land
(surface runoff) excluding that portion which infiltrates or is
evapotranspired.
   SUBAREA - the smallest drainage unit of a watershed for which stormwater
management criteria have been established in the stormwater management plan.
   SUBDIVISION - the division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer of ownership or building or lot development.
   SWALE - a low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TERRACE - an embankment or combination of an embankment and channel across a
slope to control erosion by diverting or storing surface runoff instead of
permitting it to flow uninterrupted down the slope.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION (Tc) - the time for surface runoff to travel from the
hydraulically most distant point of the watershed to a point of interest within
the watershed. This time is the combined total of overland flow time and flow
time in pipes or channels, if any.
   WATERCOURSE - a stream of water; river; brook; creek; or, a channel or ditch
for water, whether natural or manmade.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH - any and all rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets;
ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water, wetlands, ponds,
springs and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of surface and
underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial, within or
on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
   WETLANDS -those areas inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do
support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. A
significant natural resource, wetlands serve important functions relating to
fish and wildlife food chain production, habitat, nesting, spawning, rearing
and resting sites for protected aquatic and land species; protection of other
areas from erosion and sediment pollution, storage areas for storm and flood
waters or natural recharge areas where ground and surface water are
interconnected; and natural water filtration and purification functions.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, 5202; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
C.   Stormwater Management Requirements.
§ 121.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   All stormwater management system designs, plans and/or construction
shall:
      A.   Limit the peak postdevelopment runoff to the applicable release rate
of the pre-development peak rate of runoff from the 2, 10 and 25 year storms.
It is the developer/owner/engineer's responsibility to insure that the proposed
development site/subdivision meets the release rate criteria of this Part and
does not increase stormwater runoff onto other properties.
      B.   Be compatible with the Little Conemaugh River Stormwater Management
Plan.
      C.   Shall comply with all the requirements of the local ordinances and
those of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. The
Pennsylvania DEP, Chapter 105, Rules and Regulations, apply to the
construction, modification, operation r maintenance of both existing and
proposed darn, water obstructions and encroachments throughout the watershed,
including wetlands. Inquiries on permit requirements or other concerns should
be addressed to the Southwest Regional Office, 400 Waterfront Drive,
Pittsburgh, PA 14222-4745. (Ord. 3-1999)
      D.   Be conducted in such a way as to minimize accelerated erosion and
resulting sediment pollution. Measures to control erosion and resulting
sediment pollution shall, at a minimum, meet the standards of Chapter 102
(Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control) of Title 25, Rules and Regulations of
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection arid Erosion and
Sediment Pollution Control Manual (latest edition). lord. 3-1999]
      E.   Be designed so that the construction of basins within the 100 year
floodplain are avoided, where possible, but where unavoidable, the situation
shall be examined for its function ability and supporting documentation
submitted to the Borough Council for review and shall be consistent with
Chapter 106 (Floodplain Management) of Title 25, Rules and Regulations of the
PA DEP. [Ord. 3-1999]
      F.   Comply with all zoning, subdivisions and floodplain management
regulations at the State or municipal level. The more restrictive regulation(s)
supersede(s) all other regulations.
      G.   Be designed by a person trained and experienced in stormwater
management. The design, and installation of the control measures are the
responsibility of the developer.
   2.   These requirements are in addition to any and all criteria established
by the Pennsylvania DEP. [Ord. 3-1999]
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 331; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 122.   TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   All stormwater management facilities required or regulated by this Part
shall be designed to meet the performance standards presented within this Part.
   2.   The design of arty detention facility intended to meet the requirements
of this Part shall be verified by routing the design storm hydrograph through
the proposed facility.
   3.   All facilities that require stream encroachment or dam safety permits,
as defined in PA DEP Chapter 105, regulations (as amended or replaced from time
to time by PA DEP), shall be designed in accordance with Chapter 105. See §
121(C), for further information. [Ord. 3-1999]
   4.   All calculations using the soil cover complex method shall use the 24
hour rainfall amounts obtained from "Rainfall Duration Frequency Tables for
Pennsylvania," PA DEP: [Ord. 3-1999]
 
Storm Event Rainfall Intensity
2 year      2.8 inches
10 year     4.2 inches
25 year     4.8 inches
 
   5.   Rainfall intensities required for the rational formula shall use
rainfall intensities consistent with appropriate times of concentration and
return periods and shall be obtained from the "Rainfall Duration Frequency
Tables for Pennsylvania," PA DEP.
   6.   Infiltration/storage structures are promoted throughout the watershed,
particularly on the more porous soils (hydrologic soil groups A and B). Of
course site limitations and geologic conditions (potential for groundwater
contamination) should be carefully examined before proposing infiltration
facilities. The table provided (Source: Rawls, Brakenseik and Saxton, 1982) may
be consulted in determining the storage potential for infiltration structures.
The effects of frozen conditions should also be considered when designing such
facilities. The Little Conemaugh River Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management
Plan provides accepted infiltration runoff control techniques. It should be
noted that these techniques are suggestions and should not be limited to only
those shown. Most often a combination of techniques are utilized to obtain most
practical installations. The most common installations are:
      A.   Detention basins.
      B.   Retention basins.
      C.   Infiltration beds/leaching chambers.
      D.   Open channels.
      E.   Infiltration ponds.
      F.   Percolation basins.
      G.   Pipe trenches.
      H.   Pervious pavement. Rooftop Strage.
      J.   Dutch drains.
      K.   Permanent ponds.
      L.   Underground detention tanks.
Texture Class Effective Water        Minimum Infiltration Hydrologic Soil Group
              Capacity (In. per In.) Rate (In. per Hr.)
                Effective Water   Minimum Infiltration
Texture Class   Capacity (In. per Rate (In. per Hr.)   Hydrologic Soil Group
                In.)
Sand            0.35              8.25                 A
Loamy sand      0.31              2.41                 A
Sandy loam      0.25              1.02                 B
Loam            0.19              0.52                 B
Silt loam       0.17              0.27                 C
Sandy clay loam 0.14              0.17                 C
Clay loam       0.14              0.09                 C
Silty clay loam 0.11              0.06                 D
Sandy clay      0.09              0.05                 D
Silty clay      0.09              0.04                 D
Clay            0.08              0.02                 D
 
Source: Rawls, Brakenseik and Saxton, 1982.
   7.   The following list of general structural criteria may be used to aid in
the design of a proposed stormwater detention basin:
      A.   The basin is to be sodded or topsoiled and seeded, including the
bottom, side slopes and all earthen dams and embankments.
      B.   Suitable lining shall be required to all points of inflow to the
basin where erosion and scour may occur.
      C.   The basin shall have a minimum slope of 1% towards the primary
outlet to assure positive drainage and prevent saturated conditions.
      D.   The side slopes shall be maximum of 3 feet horizontal to 1 foot
vertical (3:1), unless the design engineer can provide justification to propose
steeper slopes.
      E.   Basins greater than 3 feet deep shall be fenced.
      F.   Safety ledges shall be constructed on the side slopes of all
detention basins having a permanent pool of water.
      G.   Any stormwater management facility required or regulated by this
Part shall be designed to provide an emergency spillway to handle flow up to
100 year postdevelopment conditions. The height of embankment must be set as to
provide a minimum 1 foot of freeboard above the maximum pool elevation computed
when the facility functions for 100 year postdevelopment inflow. However,
criteria for design and construction of stormwater management facilities are
not the same criteria that are used in the permitting of dams under the Dam
Safety Program. Depending upon the physical characteristics of a dam, a dam
permit may be required and the design will have to meet the provisions of
Chapter 105 of the Dam Safety and Encroachments Act. Depending on the physical
characteristics of a darn, the design could require that anywhere from a 50
year to a PMF strm event be considered.
      H.   Outlets shall be designed to function without manual, electric or
mechanical controls where possible.
      I.   Provide all spillways (primary and emergency) with erosion
protection.
      J.   All earth fill shall be free from brush, roots and other rganic
material subject to decomposition.
      K.   The fill material in all earth dams and embankments shall be
compacted :o at least 95% of the maximum density obtained from compaction tests
performed by the appropriate method in ASTM D698.
   8.   Infiltration facilities cannot discharge to or be directly
hydrologically connected to an underlying deep mine.
   9.   All stormwater detention facilities shall be designed to provide an
emergency overflow which shall pass 100% of the 100 year postdevelopment runoff
rate.
   10.   The design of all stormwater management facilities shall incorporate
sound engineering principles and practices. The plan administrator shall
reserve the right to disapprove any design that would result in the occurrence
or perpetuation of an adverse hydrologic or hydraulic condition within the
watershed.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995. § 302; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
§ 123.   CALCULATION METHODOLOGY.
   1.   Any stormwater runoff calculations involving drainage areas greater
than 20 acres, including on and offsite areas, shall use arty generally
accepted calculation technique that is based on the SCS soil cover complex
method. It is assumed that all methods will be selected by the design
professional based on the individual limitations and suitability of each method
for a particular site.
ACCEPTABLE COMPUTATION METHODOLOGIES FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANS
 
Method                      Method Developed By   Applicability
TR-20 (or commercial                              Applicable where use of full
package based on TR-20)     USDA SCS              hydrology computer model is
                                                  desirable or necessary.
TR-55 (or commercial                              Applicable for land
cormputer package based on  USDA SCS              development plans within
TR-55)'                                           limitations described in
                                                  TR55.
                            U.S. Army Corps of    Applicable where use of full
HEC-1                       Engineers             hydrologic computer model is
                                                  desirable or necessary
                                                  Applicable where use of a
PSRM                        Penn State University hydrologic computer model is
                                                  desirable or necessary;
                                                  simpler than TR-20 or HEC1.
Rational Method (or                               For sites less than 20
commercial computer package Emil Kuichling (1889) acres, or as approved by the
based on Rational Method)                         plan administrator and
                                                  Borough Engineer.
                                                  Other computation
Other Methods               Varies                methodologies approved by
                                                  the plan administrator and
                                                  Borough Engineer.
 
   2.   The following steps outline the procedure for calculating stormwater
runoff:
      A.   Compute the predevelopment runoff hydrograph for the 2,10 and 25
year event.
      B.   Compute the postdevelopment runoff hydrograph for the 2, 10 and 25
year event with no stormwater management. If the postdevelopment hydrograph is
identical to the predevelopment runoff hydrograph in peak discharge and shape,
the requirements of this Part have been met; otherwise, proceed to subsection
(C).
      C.   If site conditions allow, apply onsite stormwater management
technicue(s) to increase infiltration and reduce impervious surfaces. Recompute
the 2, 10 and 25 year postdevelopment hydrographs. If the peak rates are
greater than predevelopment rates, stormwater detention will be required.
      D.   Using the subbase release rate percentage (provided on the watershed
map in Appendix A) and the predevelopment rate of runoff, multiply to determine
the allowable release rates from the detention facility for the 2, 10, and 25
year events.
      E.   Prove by accepted hydraulic methods that the allowable release rates
from the detention facilities are being achieved for the 2, 10 and 25 year
events through principal outlet/outlets.
      F.   Provide all detention facilities with an emergency spillway or
emergency overflow outlet with the capacity of safely passing 100% of the peak
inflow from the 100 year postdevelopment event.
   3.   It should be noted that stormwater storage can be provided on or
offsite. The possibility for regional or offsite facilities provides increased
management flexibility within a watershed. In many areas, the most cost-
effective solution may be several developments sharing a joint facility.
Municipalities also may benefit from this approach. Joint facilities may
maximize development in appropriate areas and provide regional storage through
the use of natural or artificial lakes, floodplains and valleys with steep
slopes that are unsuitable for development. However, where offsite storage is
to be used, the developer must insure that no flooding or harm will be caused
by runoff between the new development and the offsite storage area. This may
require the protection of the stream channel or the construction of a storm
sewer to convey runoff to the storage site.
   4.   The release rate percentage provides a standard for the watershed plan
to define what measures are reasonably neoessary to manage stormwater so as to
prevent injury, to persons and property M a watershed.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 303)
D.   Drainage Plan Requirements, Submittal and Review Procedures.
§ 131.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   The drainage plan shall be submitted to the local municipality with the
preliminary subdivision and/or land development plan to allow for timely review
and inclusion in the final subdivision plan for any revision(s) which may
result from the review(s).
   2.   The applicant shall submit the erosion and sediment pollution control
plan directly to the Cambria County Conservation District for review and
approval.
   3.   The Borough Council shall approve the stormwater management site plan
and the Cambria County Conservation District shall review and approve the
erosion and sediment pollution control plan, prior to the final approval of
subdivision and/or land development plans, or the issuance of any permits.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 401)
§ 132.   DRAINAGE PLAN CONTENT.
The following items shall be included in the plan:
      A.   Narrative report describing the project and giving the purpose and
the engineering assumptions and calculations for control measures and
facilities. This report should include, but not be limited to the following:
         (1)   General description of the project including statement of total
impervious area created.
         (2)   Brief soil description.
         (3)   General description of stormwater management controls.
         (4)   Expected project time schedule including anticipated start and
completion dates.
         (5)   A proposed schedule of inspections (if available) which will be
performed by the applicant's engineer.
         (6)   All calculations, assumptions and criteria used in the design of
the control measures and structures.
         (7)   A maintenance program for all stormwater management and controls
for both the construction period and after construction is oomplete. Include
the party responsible for maintenance. This program must include the proposed
ownership of the permanent controls and details for financial responsibility
for any required maintenance.
         (8)   Drainage plan application with fee.
         (9)   A copy of the erosion and sedimentation control plan approval
letter from the Cambria County Conservation District (if available).
         (10)   All deed and plan restrictions, easements and rights-of-way
related to stormwater management and facilities.
         (11)   Training and experience of person(s) preparing the plan.
      B.   Map(s) of the project area shall include, but not be limited to:
         (1)   The locations of the project relative to highways,
municipalities or other identifiable landmarks (i.e. U.S.G.S.).
         (2)   North arrow and scale.
         (3)   Existing and proposed contours at intervals of 2 feet; in areas
of steep slopes (greater than 15%), 5 foot contour intervals may be used.
         (4)   Streams, lakes, ponds or other bodies of water within and in
close proximity to the project area.
         (5)   Easements and adjoining property owners.
         (6)   Existing structures, road, paved areas, buildings and earth
disturbances.
         (7)   Other physical features including existing drainage swales and
areas of natural vegetation to be preserved.
         (8)   Locations of existing and proposed underground utilities, sewers
and water lines.
         (9)   Soil types and boundaries.
         (10)   Proposed changes to lane surfaces and vegetative cover.
         (11)   Limits of disturbed area(s).
         (12)   Proposed structures including roads, paved areas and buildings.
         (13)   Any wetlands as delineated according to the latest acceptable
manual and person(s) trained in wetland delineation.
         (14)   Existing and proposed stormwater management control structures.
         (15)   Details/profiles of all proposed stormwater management storage
infiltration control structures.
         (16)   Drainage area(s).
         (17)   When groundwater recharge methods such as seepage pits, beds or
trenches are used, the location of infiltration areas must be shown. It is
recommended that any up and downgradient wells and springs be sampled at least
once prior to installation to document pre-infiltration device water quality.
Reasonable radius for testing is 500 feet. Also, if infiltration facilities are
used they cannot discharge to any underlying deep mine.
         (18)   Areas subject to special deed restrictions affecting or
affected by storm-water management.
         (19)   Plans for construction must be signed and sealed by an engineer
registered in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and qualified under all
applicable State and local laws to perform such duties indicating the
compliance of the design of the stormwater management facilities and concepts
with the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 402)
§ 133.   PLAN SUBMISSION.
   1.   The drainage plan shall be submitted to the Borough Council.
   2.   The drainage plan shall be accompanied by the requisite fee, as set
forth in subpart G and the fee schedule of this Part.
   3.   Four copies of the completed drainage plan must be submitted. (Ord. 1-
1995, 4/3/1995, § 403)
§ 134.   DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   1.   The Borough Council shall distribute one copy of the stormwater
management plan to the Cambria County Conservation District and one copy to
their designated engineer.
   2.   The Conservation District and the Borough Engineer shall provide their
comments to the Borough Council recommending approval or a list of
deficiencies.
   3.   It will then be the responsibility of the Borough Council to issue a
drainage occupancy permit or provide a list of deficiencies to the developer
for plan resubmission.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 404)
§ 135.   MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
A modification to an approved drainage plan which involves a change in control
methods or techniques, or which involves the relocation or redesign of control
measures, or which is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as
stated on the approved application (as determined by the Borough Engineer or
its designee) shall be considered for approval pursuant to the procedures
contained in §§
133 and
134 of this subpart.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 405)
E.   Permit Requirements and Procedures.
§ 141.   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS.
All subdivision/land development activities as specified in §
104, except those specifically exempt from drainage plan submittal and review
requirements specified in §
105, shall be conducted only after the issuance of a drainage permit.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 501)
§ 142.   PERMIT ISSUANCE.
The applicant shall obtain the required drainage permit after obtaining the
required drainage plan approval as specified in subpart D of this Part. This
drainage permit will be issued by the Borough Council concurrently with final
subdivision/land development approval.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 502)
§ 143.   MODIFICATION OF DRAINAGE PLANS.
A modification to an approved drainage plan, when required under §
135 of this Part, shall require a new drainage permit. The permit shall be
issued following approvals of the revised plan.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 503)
§ 144.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   1.   All drainage occupancy permits required by this Part shall be made on
forms supplied by the Borough provided in Appendix B of this Part.
   2.   The drainage occupancy permit shall he issued by the Borough Council
following approval of the stormwater management site drainage plan.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 504)
§ 145.   EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   1.   All drainage permits shall expire 36 months from the date of issuance.
   2.   A renewal of the expired drainage permit may be issued by the Borough
following a resubmittal of the drainage permit application form. Additional
fees must be paid for the resubmittal of an expired permit.
   3.   The refusal of the Borough Council to reissue an expired drainage
permit shall contain the reasons for such refusal.
      A.   Changes in projeot site conditions and requirements for the drainage
plan may occur over a period of time.
      B.   If the requirements for the drainage plan have changed as determined
by the Borough Council, reapplication, review arid permit issuance requirements
must be performed pursuant to this Part.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 505)
§ 146.   COMPLIANCE AND GUARANTEES.
The Brough may require a guarantee bond from the developer/applicant to assure
that the proposed stormwater facility will be installed and constructed in a
timely manner. The Borough will set the appropriate amount of bond based on the
size and type of facility. Subsequent to the successful completion of the
installation of the stormwater facility and inspection by the Borough Engineer
and certifying the completion in accordance with the approved plans, the
Borough may release the guarantee bond. Guarantee bonds will be 100% of the
estimated developer/applicant construction cost as accepted by the Borough
Engineer.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 506)
F.   Inspections.
§ 151.   RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSPECTIONS.
It is the applicant's engineer or qualified designee's responsibility to make
inspections to assure that the facility is being constructed according to the
project plans.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 601)
§ 152.   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
If at any stage of the work, the Borough Council, or its designee, determines
that the conditions are not as slated or shown in the approved application, the
Borough Council may suspend or revoke existing permits until a revised plan is
submitted and approved.
(Ord. 14995, 4/3/1995, § 602)
G.   Fees and Expenses.
§ 161.   GENERAL.
Drainage permit fees are to cover costs of the Borough Council and designated
engineer for drainage plan review and permit issuance. No permit to begin any
work on the project shall be issued and no reviews performed until the
requisite fees have been paid. The submission shall be considered incomplete if
the required fees have not been paid.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 701)
§ 162.   MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   1.   If it is determined that a modification to the existing drainage site
plan is required under §
135 of this Part, a new drainage prmit shall not be issued until the additional
fees have been paid by the applicant. The fee associated with the resubmission
of a drainage plan is listed on the schedule of fees.
   2.   If the reviewing agency determines that any stormwater management
control facility design is not based on sound engineering practice, the
applicant will be responsible for the review of any additional facilities and
additional fees as set within this Part.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 702)
§ 163.   SCHEDULE OF FEES.
All fees and expenses shall be in amounts as established from time to time by
resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 703; as amended by Ord. 3-1999, 4/5/1999)
H.   Maintenance.
§ 171.   MAINTENANCE BY INDIVIDUAL OR MULTIPLE OWNERSHIP(S).
The maintenance responsibilities fr permanent stormwater runoff control
facilities/controls shall be determined based upon the type of ownership of the
property.
      A.   Single Entity Ownership. In all cases where the permanent stormwater
runoff control facilities are designed to manage runoff from property in a
single entity ownership as defined below, the maintenance responsibility for
the stormwater control facilities shall be the single entity owner. In this
case, a legally binding agreement between the entity and the Borough shall be
made providing for maintenance of all permanent control facilities and allowing
inspection by the Borough of all such facilities at any reasonable time. A
single entity shall be defined as an individual, association, public or private
corporation, partnership firm, trust, estate or any other legal entity
empowered to own real estate.
      B.   When strmwater management control measures are located on an
individual lot, they are the responsibility of that landowner to maintain, a
description of the facility or system and the terms of the required maintenance
shall be incorporated as part of the deed to the property.
      C.   If the Borough determines at any time that any permanent stormwater
management control facilities have been eliminated, altered or improperly
maintained, the owner of the property shall be advised of oorrective measures
required and given a reasonable period of time to take necessary action. If
such action is not taken by the property owner, the Brough may cause the work
to be done and lien all costs against the property. This provision is in
addition to any remedies under §
184 of this Part.
Note: Based on ownership, a maintenance agreement shall be executed in the form
of language which will be placed on preliminary and final plat, in addition to
a proposed deed.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 801)
§ 172.   MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
Maintenance of the stormwater management facility is the responsibility of the
owner. A maintenance plan should be developed and implemented to assure proper
function of the stormwater management facility.
      A.   The owner shall maintain all facilities in accordance with the
approved maintenance schedule and shall keep all facilities in a safe and
attractive manner.
      B.   The owner shall keep on file with the Borough the name, address and
telephone number of the persons or company responsible for maintenance
activities.
      C.   If the owner fails to maintain the stormwater control facilities
following due notice by the Borough to correct the problems, the Borough may
perform the necessary maintenance work or corrective work and the owner shall
reimburse the Borough for all costs.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 802)
I.   Enforcement and Penalties.
§ 181.   RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
Duly authorized representatives of the Borough may enter at reasonable times
upon any property within the Borough to investigate or ascertain the condition
of the subject property in regard to any aspect regulated by this Part.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 901)
§ 182.   ENFORCEMENT.
The Borough Council is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this Part.
      A.   A set of design plans approved by the Borough shall be on file at
the site throughout the duration of the construction activity. Periodic
inspections may be made by the Borough or designee during construction.
      B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm r corporation to undertake
any disturbance activity on any property except as provided for in the approved
drainage plan and pursuant to this Part. It shall be unlawful to alter or
remove any control structure required by the drainage plan pursuant to this
Part or to allow the property to remain in a condition which does not conform
to the approved drainage plan.
      C.   At the completion of the project, the owner or his representative
shall provide to the Borough:
         (1)   A certification of completion from an engineer or other
qualified person verifying that all permanent facilities have been constructed
according to the plans and specifications and approved revisions thereto.
         (2)   A set of as-built drawings (if appropriate).
      D.   After receipt or the certification of completion by the Borough, a
final inspection may be conducted by the Borough Council or its designee to
certify compliance with this Part.
      E.   Prior to revocation or suspension of a permit, the Borough Council
will schedule a meeting to discuss the noncompliance if there is no immediate
damage to life, public health or property.
      F.   Suspension and Revocation of Permits.
         (1)   Any person issued under this Part may be suspended or revoked by
the Borough Council for:
            (a)   Noncompliance or failure to implement any provision of the
plan.
            (b)   A violation of any provision of this Part or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to the project.
            (c)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act
during construction or development which constitutes or creates a hazard or
nuisance, pollution or which endangers the life or property of others, or as
outlined in this subpart.
         (2)   A suspended permit shall be reinstated by the Borough Council
when:
            (a)   The Borough Council, Planning Commission or their designees
have inspected and approved the crrections to the stormwater management measure
(s), or the elimination of the hazard or nuisance.
            (b)   The 3orough Council is satisfied that the violation of the
Part, law or rule and regulation has been corrected.
         (3)   A permit which has been revoked by the Borough Council cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new permit under the procedures
outlined in this Part.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 902)
§ 183.   NOTIFICATION.
   1.   As a result of an onsite inspection by the designee of the Borough
Council, or a majority of the Borough Council, and it has been determined that
an owner, subdivider, developer r his agent has failed to comply with the
requirements of this Part, or fails to conform to the requirements of any
permit issued thereunder, the Borough Council or designee shall provide written
notification of violation within 10 days of said onsite inspection. Such
notification shall set frth the nature of the violation(s) and establish a time
limit for correction of these violation(s). Upon failure to comply with the
time specified, the owner, subdivider, developer or his agent shall he subject
to the penalty provisions of this Part (§
184) or other penalty.
   2.   Each day that the violation continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Borough Council may institute injunctive mandamus or any other
appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement of
this Part. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining rders, temporary r permanent injunctions, mandamus or other
appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3 /1995, § 903)
§ 184.   ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
In case arty building, structure or land is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained or used in violation
or this Part, the Borough Council or, with the approval of the Borough Council,
an officer of the Brough, in addition to other remedies, may institute in the
name of the Borough any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such building, structure or land, or to prevent, in or about
such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting violation.
(Ord. 1-1995, 4/3/1995, § 904)
APPENDICES
Appendix A.   Drainage Plan Permit Application
Appendix B.   Stormwater Management Occupancy Permit
Appendix C.   Best Management Practices
Appendix D.   Little Conemaugh River Watershed Boundary Map
APPENDIX A
DRAINAGE PLAN PERMIT APPLICATION
LITTLE CONEMAUGH RIVER WATERSHED
DRAINAGE APPLICATION PERMIT APPLICATION
Application is hereby made for review of the stormwater management plan and
related data as submitted herewith in accordance with the Little Conemaugh
River Watershed Stormwater Management Ordinance [this Part].
Date of Submission:
Submission No.:
Local Governing Body   (Name of Township or Borough)
   1.   Name of Subdivision or Land Development   
   2.   Name of Applicant   
Telephone No.   
(If Corporation, list the Corporations name and the names of two officers of
the Corporation).
Corporation Name
Name
Telephone No.
Address
Applicant's interest in subdivision or development    (If other than property
owner give owners name and address)
   3.   Name of Property Owner
Telephone No.
Address
   4.   Name of Engineer
Telephone No.
Address
   5.   Type of subdivision or development proposed:
Single-family lots
Two-family lots
Multifamily lots
Cluster type lots
Planned residential development
Townhouses
Garden apartments
Mobile home park
Campground
Other (_______________)
Commercial (multilot)
Commercial (one lot)
Industrial (multilot)
Industrial (one lot)
   6.   Lineal feet of new road proposed?     L.F.
   7.   Area of existing and proposed impervious area on entire tract.
      A.   Existing (to remain)       S.F.
      B.   Proposed      S.F.
   8.   Stormwater.
      A.   Does the peak rate of runoff from proposed conditions exceed that
flow which occurred for predevelopment conditions for the designated design
storm?
      B.   Method of determining runoff rates.    
      C.   Is the proposed runoff reduced to the allowable release rate for the
subarea in which the site is located for the 2, 10 and 25 year design storm?   
      D.   Subarea Number from Appendix D of the Little Conemaugh River
Watershed Stormwater Management Ordinance [this Part].    
      E.   Type of proposed runoff control facilities or infiltration
measures.   
      F.   Does the proposed stormwater control criteria meet the requirements/
guidelines of the stormwater ordinances?
C. Does the plan meet the requirements of subparts C and D of the Stormwater
Management Ordinance [this Part]?    
      H.   Is a hydraulic routing through the stormwater control structure
submitted?
      I.   Is a construction schedule or staging attached?   
Is a recommended maintenance program attached?   
      K.   Who will have the maintenance responsibility of the stormwater
control facilities?
9. EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION POLLUTION CONTROL (E & SC)
      A.   Has the erosion and sedimentation control plan been submitted to the
Cambria County Conservation District?    
      B.   Total area of earth disturbance
      C.   Is the erosion and sedimentation pollution control plan approval
letter attached?
   10.   WETLANDS
      A.   Are wetlands encountered on the site?   
      B.   Have the wetlands been delineated by someone trained in wetland
delineation?
(If yes, list the names and address of persons delineating the wetlands)
Name
Telephone No.
Address
      C.   Have the wetlands been verified by a State or Federal permitting
authority?
      D.   Have the wetlands been surveyed?   
      E.   Total acreage of wetlands within the property.   
      F.   Additional supporting documentation.    
   11.   FILING
      A.   Has the required fee been submitted:   
Amount
   3.   Has the proposed schedule of construction and inspections to be
performed by the applicant or their engineer been submitted?    
      C.   Name of individual(s) who will be making the inspections
   12.   ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
WATER
CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF APPLICATION
On this   day of   , 199, before me, the undersigned officer, the applicant
verifies that this application was made with knowledge and direction of the
Little Conemaugh River Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management Plan and the
provisions set forth within the Lithe Conemaugh River Stormwater Management
Ordinance.
For Portage Borough      
      
Signature of Property Owner   Date
Signature of Property Owner   Date
Signature of Applicant   Date
Signature of Local Governing Body Official   Date
**************************************************************
INFORMATION BELOW THIS LINE TO BE COMPLETED BY BOROUGH COUNCIL
Date complete application received   
Plan Number   
Fees   
Date Fees Paid   
Check Number   
Received By   
REVIEW AGREEMENT
The undersigned hereby agrees that all costs incurred to have the plans
reviewed by the Engineer and Solicitor will be the responsibility of the
applicant:
Date
Date
ATTEST      
      Date
APPENDIX B
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT OCCUPANCY PERMIT
Date   
Plan Number   
Local Governing Body   
Property Owner    Address
Location   
Type of Use   
Name of Business (if applicable)    Address
The applioant attests that he/she has complied with all of the    Township/
Borough ordinances prior to construction of the proposed development.
The engineer attests that he/she has complied with all of the    Township/
Borough ordinances prior to construction of the proposed development.
The following ordinances have been complied with:
Subdivision Ordinance   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Land Development Ordinance   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Zoning Ordinance   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Building Permit Ordinance   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Stormwater Management Ordinance   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Street and Road Occupancy Permit   YES   NO   DOES NOT APPLY
Has the erosion and sedimentation control plan been approved by the Cambria
County Conservation District? YES NO PENDING
Signature of Applicant   Date
   Date
   Date
Signature of Applicant   
Signature of Issuing Agent   
APPENDIX C
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
   1.   Early stormwater management efforts concentrated on removing the
stormwater a quickly as possible by routing the runoff through a storm sewer
system. As the development of watersheds in urban areas increased, the effeot
of simply passing the stormwater runoff downstream became readily apparent. The
result was an increase in total flow peak rate, stream velocity and flow depth
which frequently led to flooding. It is now recognized that the most rational
and effective approach to controlling runoff is to maintain natural runoff flow
characteristics. This can be accomplished by maximizing natural infiltration
processed, reducing impervious areas, preserving floodplains and controlling
stormwater runoff peak flows within a watershed.
   2.   It will be up to each developer to select the techniques that are most
appropriate to the type of project and characteristics of their development
site. It is likely that in most situations, a combination of onsite controls
will be effective and least costly to the stormwater management system.
Selection of the appropriate installation must be based on field conditions,
including environmental considerations, soil permeability, ground water table
depth and land availability, and must be supported by appropriate
justification. The most commonly used local storage/discharge installations
includes:
      A.   Detention basins.
      B.   Retention basins.
      C.   Infiltration beds/leaching chambers.
      D.   Open channels.
      E.   Infiltration ponds.
      F.   Percolation basins.
      G.   Pipe trenches.
      H.   Pervious pavement. Rooftop Storage.
   1.   Dutch drains.
      K.   Permanent ponds.
      L.   Underground detention tanks.
   3.   Schematics and brief descriptions of numerous installations are located
in subpart F of the Little Conemaugh River Watershed Act 167 Stormwater
Management Plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/95ec79681949aa9d77038f92946e7a446414bd23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
APPENDIX D
CAMBRIA COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN LITTLE CONEMAUGH RIVER WATERSHED
DRAINAGE AREAS A, B & C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/95ec79681949aa9d77038f92946e7a446414bd23/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
PART 2
BACKFLOW CONTROL POLICY
§ 201.   'FINDINGS.
The Council of the Borough of Portage is vested with responsibility under the
Pennsylvania Borough Code to provide for the health, safety and welfare of its
residents to implement and mandate all property owners to install backflow
prevention device or devices.
(Ord. 4-2002 6/3/2002, § 1)
§ 202.   SHORT TITLE.
This Part shall be referred to as the "Backflow Control Policy Ordinance."
(Ord. 4-2002, 6/3/2002, § 2)
§ 203.   PURPOSE AND INTENTION.
   1.   The Pennsylvania Department al Environmental Protection has determined
that backflow in public water systems in Pennsylvania represents a serious
danger to the health of customers served by public water cyst ems and has
prescribed standards for the control and prevention of backflow.
   2.   The Municipal Authority of the Borough of Portage provides potable
water to the residents of the Borough of Portage and is in the process of
implementing a backflow prevention and monitoring program with the intention of
maintaining the high quality of water served to Borough residents.
(Ord. 9-2002 6/3/2002, § 3)
§ 204.   ENFORCEMENT OF THE MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.
The Borough of Portage hereby mandates the backflow prevention requirement, as
set forth in the Backflow Control Policy of the Municipal Authority of the
Borough of Portage as derived from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection, "Water Supply Manual," to be implemented by the Municipal Authority
of the Borough of Portage and delegating to the Authority such enforcement
powers.
(Ord. 4-2002, 6/3/2002, § 4)
§ 205.   CONSUMER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Application. The public water supplier and the consumer have the joint
responsibility for protection of the public water supply from contamination or
pollution due to backflow.
   2.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all times to the public water
supplier, or its authorized representative, for the purposes of surveying for,
or investigating, actual or potential cross-connections.
   3.   On request by the public water supplier, the consumer shall furnish
information on water use practices within consumer's premises.
   4.   When the public water supplier requires an approved backflow prevention
device, the supplier shall give notice to the consumer to install such an
approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to consumer's
premises. The consumer should immediately install such an approved device or
devices al the consumer's own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the
part of the consumer to install such a device or devices shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such a device or
devices have been installed.
(Ord. 4-2002 6/3/2002 § 5)
§ 206.   PROFESSIONAL INSTALLATION, TESTING AND INSPECTION.
The owner of a property served by water shall be responsible for providing
proof of testing of the backflow control device by a registered plumber
certified in the installation and inspection of backflow prevention devices on
an annual basis.
(Ord. 4-2002, 6/3/2002, § 6)
§ 207.   PENALTIES.
The public water supplier may, at its option and without detriment. to its
other enforcement rights under this Part or existing ordinances, separately
bring a prosecution against any person violating this Part under the name of
Portage Borough. Any person convicted of violation before a magistrate shall be
liable for payment of a fine up to $600 per incident of violation. Each day
that a violation continues shall be considered a separate violation for
purposes of such enforcement actions.
(Ord. 4-2002 6/3/2002, § 7)
CHAPTER 27
ZONING
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
APPENDIX
The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical or administrative interest, it
has not been considered necessary to include their entire text. Instead, they
are arranged in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group
listed by title in chronological order. The annual budget and tax ordinances
have been listed only in the "Key to the Disposition of Ordinances." Any person
who desires to read the full text of any of the ordinances or resolutions may
do so by consulting the original Ordinance Books on file in the Borough
Offices.
The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
   
A   Annexation of Territory
   
B   Bond Issues and Loans
   
C   Franchises and Services
   
D   Governmental and intergovernmental Affairs
   
E   Plan Approval
   
F   Public Property
   
G   Sewers
   
H   Streets and Sidewalks
   
I   Water
   
J   Zoning; Prior Ordinances
APPENDIX A
ANNEXATION OF TERRITORY
 
Ord./Res. Date     Description
                   Annexing land owned by the Borough and located in Portage
268       9/5/1967 Township, said territory annexed is known as Crichton-
                   McCormick Memorial Park.
 
APPENDIX B
BOND ISSUES AND LOANS
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./ Date     Subject
Res.
      12/7/    Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough by an issue of bonds in
E     1914     the amount of $18,000 for the purpose of funding and paying the present
               floating indebtedness.
      9/19/    Signifying and expressing the desire of the Borough to increase the
I     1916     indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $25,000 for the purpose of
               funding and paying the present floating indebtedness.
      9/19/    Authorizing an election on the question of increasing the indebtedness of
J     1916     the Borough in the amount of $25,000 for the purpose of funding and paying
               the present floating indebtedness.
      2/19/    Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $25,000
K     1917     by an issue of bonds for the purpose of funding and paying the present
               floating indebtedness.
               Signifying and expressing the desire of the Borough to increase the bonded
N     2/5/1923 indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $90,000 for the grading, paving
               and improving of certain streets in the Borough.
               Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough by an issue of bonds in
P-A   –/–/-the amount of $90,000 for the purpose of grading, paving and improving
               certain streets in the Borough.
      --/--/-- Providing for and directing the issue and sale of refunding bonds of the
3     -        Borough for the purpose of paying certain bonds heretofore issued and sold
               by the Borough in the amount of $12,000.
149   3/1/1943 Authorizing an issue of coupon bonds of the Borough in the amount of $20,000
               for an unspecified purpose.
151   9/11/    Authorizing an issue of coupon bonds of the Borough in the amount of $24,000
      1944     for an unspecified purpose.
162   5/10/    Authorizing an issue of coupon bonds of the Borough in the amount of $20,000
      1948     for an unspecified purpose.
Res.           Approving an application for preliminary loan in an amount not to exceed
4     –/–/-$40,000 for the purpose a low rent public housing for the Borough of
               Portage.
Res.  12/16/   Authorizing the financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for a new
10-   2002     maintenance building for the Public Works Department in the amount of
2002           $32,000.
               Increasing the indebtedness of the Borough by the issue of a general
               obligation note in the amount of $32,000 for sundry purposes, fixing the
2-             form, number, date, interest, and maturity thereof; making a covenant for
2003  4/7/2003 the payment of the debt service on the note; providing for the filing of the
               required document; providing for the appointment of a sinking fund
               depository for the note; and authorizing execution, sale and delivery
               thereof.
               Determining to incur lease rental debt in the maximum principal amount of
               $4,913,250, evidenced by its several guaranty (50%) of the 2008 guaranteed
9-    11/19/   sewer revenue bond, in the maximum principal amount of $9,826,500, of the
2007  2007     Portage Area Sewer Authority, to undertake a capital project consisting of
               constructing additions and improvements to the Authority's sanitary sewage
               system facilities, and paying related expenses.
Res.           Authorizing the financial loan obligation with Portage National Bank for the
3-    3/3/2008 purchase of a 2008 Ford F-350 in the amount of $44,500.
2008
Res.  7/18/    Authorizing small borrowing, for capital purposes under § 8109 of the Local
5-    2011     Government Unit Debt Act in the sum of $23,961.85.
2011
Res.  12/19/   Authorizing the financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for the
18-   2014     purchase of a 2008 GMC C4500 Topkick Truck, 2012 Cam Tilt Trailer, and 2008
2014           Kubota —59 Tractor Loader Backhoe in the amount of $81,500.
1-    2/2/2015 Increasing the Borough’s indebtedness by the issue of a general obligation
2015           note in the amount of $81,500 for the purchase of public works vehicles.
1-    5/2/2016 Increasing the indebtedness of the Borough by the issue of a general
2016           obligation note in the amount of $70,000 for sundry purposes.
2-    9/6/2016 Increasing the indebtedness of the Borough by the issue of a general
2016           obligation note in the amount of $70,000 for sundry purposes.
3-    10/17/   Increasing the indebtedness of the Borough by the issue of a general
2016  2016     obligation note in the amount of $15,800 for sundry purposes.
Res.  3/21/    Authorizing a financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for a
5-    2016     maintenance building for the Public Works Department.
2016
Res.  1/15/    Authorizing the financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for the
4-    2018     purchase of a 2018 Ford F-550 chassis, aluminum bed, and snow plow in the
2018           amount of $70,570.
Ord.           Authorizing the issuance of a general obligation note to finance the
2-    3/5/2018 purchase of a truck, snow plow and aluminum bed.
2018
Res.  10/2/    Accepting a financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for the
12-   2023     purchase of a 2023 Ford Interceptor SUV in the amount of $57,445.14.
2023
Ord.  10/16/   Authorizing the issuance of a general obligation note to finance the
3-    2023     purchase of a police vehicle.
2023
              
 
APPENDIX C
FRANCHISES AND SERVICES
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./Res.     Date       Description
                         Granting to the Peoples Natural Gas Company the right
                         to lay, bury, operate, repair, maintain, alter,
                         inspect and remove mains and distributing pipes and
F             12/7/1914  appliances in, through and under the streets, lanes,
                         alleys and public grounds of the Borough for the
                         transportation and supply of natural gas or
                         manufactured gas to the Borough inhabitants.
                         Entering into a contract with the Pennsylvania
Res. 2/4/1963           Electric Company for the furnishing of electric street
                         lighting service to the Borough.
258           4/7/1965   Granting a franchise to Frank Chiodo of Johnstown to
                         operate and maintain cable TV in the Borough.
                         Entering into an agreement with the Municipal
Res. 12-2015  12/7/2015  Authority of the Borough to perform sanitation billing
                         services for a three-year period from January 1, 2016
                         through December 31, 2018.
                         Entering into an agreement for the municipal waste
                         hauling contract with Pro Disposal of Summerhill, PA
Res. 13-2015  11/7/2015  for garbage/rubbish/refuse & annual spring pickup for
                         a 12-month period effective January 1, 2016 through
                         December 31, 2016.
                         Awarding and entering into an agreement for the
                         municipal waste hauling contract with Pro Disposal of
Res. 24-2020  12/18/2020 Summerhill, PA for garbage/rubbish/refuse & annual
                         spring pickup for a 3-year period effective January 1,
                         2021 through December 31, 2023.
                        
 
APPENDIX D
GOVERNMENTAL AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./ Date    Description
Res.
      5/4/    Approving and adopting a general map of the Borough, defining the location and
G     1915    limits of the streets, avenues and alleys of the Borough and providing that all
              subdivisions of property made shall conform to the map.
11    9/24/   Fixing the compensation and expenses of the members of the Municipal Authority.
      1942
Res.  5/6/    Declaring the need for a housing authority to function in the Borough.
1     1957
              Concurring with the Board of Commissioners of Cambria County, designating the
Res.  --/—/ industrial Development Division of the Greater Johnstown Chamber of Commerce as
2     1957    the industrial development agency for the County with full power and authority
              to represent said County in all matters relevant to and for all purposes of the
              industrial Development Assistance Act.
225   11/10/  Declaring the need for a housing authority to function in the Borough.
      1958
226   11/10/  Authorizing the Johnstown Housing Authority to function in the Borough of
      1958    Portage.
Res.
5/16/        Opposing Act 442, the "Compulsory Wage Law."
1962
Res.
10/8/        Approving and supporting the licensing of a hospital in the Borough of Portage.
1962
251   7/15/   Furnishing to the United States of America assurances to provide the required
      1963    local cooperation for the flood projection project at Trout Run.
291   5/25/   Authorizing the entering into contracts for the construction of a municipal
      1971    building.
304   4/2/    Authorizing the participation of the Borough in a police cooperation agreement
      1973    with various municipalities in Cambria County.
305   5/7/    Relating to the excavation and construction of a concrete reinforced retaining
      1973    wall along Trout Run.
Res.          Assuring the Federal Insurance Administration that the Borough will enact
1-    1/6/    adequate land use control measures with enforcement provisions consistent with
1975  1975    criteria set forth in § 1910 of the National Flood Insurance Program
              Regulations.
Res.  11/4/
3-    1975    Opposing Senate Bill #1, the "Pennsylvania Flood Disaster Prevention Act."
1975
Res.  3/21/   Declaring that police officers Richard Varner and Michael D. Owatt, Jr., have
2-    1977    successfully completed police schooling under Act 120.
1977
Res.  4/18/   Declaring the Borough will not pay into the police death and benefit fund 2.25%
3-    1977    of the full-time police wages because of the sound structure of the police
1977          pension fund.
Res.  9/6/    Declaring that police officers Edward Fox, Mark Stovich and William Britton
4-    1977    have successfully completed police schooling under Act 120.
1977
Res.  9/6/    Declaring interest in participating with the Redevelopment Authority of Cambria
5-    1977    County in filing an application for Housing and Urban Development Secretary's
1977          discretionary block grant funds for Federally recognized disasters.
Res.  10/3/   Authorizing the Municipal Authority of Portage to continue to operate and
6-    1977    maintain its facilities as the authorized delegate of the Borough indefinitely.
1977
Res.  10/3/
7-    1977    Participating in the County-wide vector control program.
1977
Res.  10/19/  Requesting the U.S. Army Engineer District, Pittsburgh, to repair and restore
8-    1977    the portage flood protection project, Trout Run, to repair flood damage
1977          incurred during the July, 1977 flood.
Res.  12/27/  Declaring that police officers Robert Kunko, Man Berkhimer and Gregory Gallardy
1-    1978    have successfully completed police schooling under Act 120.
1979
Res.  5/9/    Changing the name of the Portage Borough Civil Defense Organization to Portage
2-    1979    Borough Emergency Management Agency.
1979
Res.          Making application in concurrence with the municipalities that constitute the
3-    5/24/   Cambria-Somerset Council of Governments, amid other municipalities, to
1979  1979    participate in a stormwater management study to reduce the potential damage
              caused by stormwater.
Res.
1-    2/4/    Opposing House Bill #1, which establishes constitutional spending limits for
1980- 1980    all local governments based on an economic index.
A
Res.          Amending prior methods established for computing pension or retirement benefits
1-    8/21/   for any month for a full-time police officer to include a 0% off-set for
1980- 1980    primary benefits under Federal Social Security laws for which the officer is
B             eligible because of age.
Res.  8/21/   Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1980
2-    1980    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1980          into the fund.
Res.  12/29/  Authorizing the use of liquid fuels tax funds by the Borough for the purpose of
3-    1980    maintenance and repair of existing roads and streets of the Borough.
1980
Res.          Supporting the Kolter Amendment or a similar amendment offered by any other
4/6/         member of the General Assembly to House Bill 375, giving municipalities their
1981          fair share, 20% of the gasoline tax.
Res.  6/1/    Approving an amendment to Article 8 of the intergovernmental cooperation
1-    1981    agreement of the Cambria County Police Communications System.
1981
Res.  12/28/  Authorizing the use of liquid fuels tax funds by the Borough for the purpose of
2-    1981    maintenance and repair of existing roads and streets of the Borough.
1981
Res.  11/11/  Adopting the Cambria County Solid Waste Management Plan Update as the
3-    1982    officially adopted solid waste plan for the Borough.
1981
Res.  6/6/    Agreeing to acquire and furnish at the Borough's cost the necessary easements
1-    1983    and rights-of-entry for the Emergency Streambank Protection Project.
1983
Res.  3/5/    Authorizing and directing the Councilmen of the Borough of Portage to do all
1-    1984    things necessary to become a participating and voting member in the Cambria-
1984          Somerset Council of Governments.
Res.  9/4/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1982
2-    1984    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1984          into the fund.
Res.  9/4/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1983
3-    1984    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1984          into the fund.
Res.  9/4/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1984
4-    1984    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1984          into the fund.
Res.  10/16/  Adopting the Handicapped Nondiscrimination Self Evaluation and Transition Plan,
5-    1984    as required by the Revenue Sharing Act.
1984
Res.  10/16/  Adopting the Formal Handicapped Nondiscrimination Grievance Procedure as
6-    1984    required by the Revenue Sharing Act.
1984
Res.  12/3/   Encouraging the Cambria County Commissioners to form an advisory committee
7-    1984    composed of one member of each municipal governmental within Cambria County to
1984          provide guidance to the Cambria County Solid Waste Management Authority.
Res.          Urging the United States Federal Aviation Administration to retain the manned
2/4/         flight service station at the Johnstown-Cambria County Airport.
1985
Res.          Urging the President and the Pennsylvania Senators and Congressmen to reinsert
1-    3/6/    Federal revenue sharing funding in the 1985-86 Federal budget at its fully
1985- 1985    authorized funding level.
A
Res.          Advising all proper officials of the intent of participating in the Federal
1-    10/7/   Special Bridge Funds, Inventory and Inspection Program under the Surface
1985- 1985    Transportation Act of 1982.
B
Res.  12/2/   Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1985
2-    1985    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1985          into the fund.
Res.  5/12/   Going on record in supporting any effort in Congress to continue general
1-    1986    revenue sharing in the future years at the same funding level as before.
1986
1-    6/9/    Exempting improvement to certain deteriorated industrial, commercial and other
1986  1986    property.
Res.  11/10/  Authorizing George Calaba to execute an agreement regarding the posting of
2-    1986    bridges.
1986
Res.  11/10/  Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1985
3-    1986    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1986          into the fund.
Res.  2/10/
1-    1987    Adopting the Municipal Employers Insurance Trust Plan.
1987
Res.  3/9/    Advising all proper officials of the intent to participate in the Federal
2-    1987    Special Bridge Funds, Inventory and Inspection Program.
1987
Res.          Requesting the Commissioner of the Pennsylvania State Police to act favorably
3/9/         upon the request of the Mainline Police Association to participate in CLEAN.
1987
Res.          Accepting the request of the Municipal Authority of the Borough of Portage to
3-    4/13/   amend its articles of incorporation to increase its term of existence for an
1987  1987    additional period of 50 years from the date of approval of the articles of
              amendment by the Secretary of the Commonwealth.
4-    12/14/  Authorizing the entering into of an agreement with the Portage Volunteer Fire
1987  1987    Company creating joint ownership and operation of the Portage Borough municipal
              building.
Res.          Placing on the ballot a referendum asking the residents of Portage Borough
2/1/         whether or not they desire to have voting machines placed in the Borough.
1988
Res.  2/1/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the years 1987
1-    1988    and 1988 and exempting the members of the police force from making any
1988          contributions into the fund.
Res.  3/6/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1989
1-    1989    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1989          into the fund.
1-    1/5/    Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1990
1990  1990    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
              into the fund.
Res.          Determining the police pension fund to be actuarially sound for the year 1990
1-    4/9/    and exempting the members of the police force from making any contributions
1991- 1991    into the fund.
A
Res.          Authorizing the Mainline Police Association to make application for an
1-    7/1/    intermunicipality cooperative project to convert its cooperative police units
1991- 1991    to a new 911 emergency system.
B
Res.
2-    8/5/    Giving a cost of living increase to the retired employees from 1991 and every
1991- 1991    year thereafter for the Portage Borough police and nonuniformed pension funds.
A
Res.
2-    12/17/  Accepting the terms of the supplemental reimbursement agreement 090179-B.
1991- 1991
B
Res.  11/1/   Providing a widows benefit (survivor's) benefit and granting a service
1-    1993    increment for the Borough's retired police officer Carl D. Chappel.
1993
Res.  2/3/    Appointing Patricia Koenigsberg to fill the vacant position of Borough Auditor
1-    1994    for the term of 2 years.
1994
Res.  6/6/    Authorizing and directing the Councilmen of the Borough to do whatever things
4-    1994    are necessary to become a participating and voting member in the Cambria-
1994          Somerset Council of Governments.
Res.  11/7/
5-    1994    Granting authority to join the Citizens Flag Alliance.
1994
Res.  12/5/   Recognizing Portage Borough Recycling as the official voluntary recycling
6-    1994    organization for the Borough of Portage.
1994
Res.  12/5/   Authorizing the filing of an application for State financial assistance with
7-    1994    the Pennsylvania Department of Community Affairs.
1994
Res.  2/6/    Advising all proper officials of the intent of participating in the Billion
1-    1995    Dollar Bridge Program.
1995
Res.  3/6/    Declaring an interest in participating with and in supporting the County of
2-    1995    Cambria in the filing of the application for financial assistance on behalf of
1995          the Borough.
Res.          Advising all proper officials of the intent of participating in the Federal
3-    4/3/    Special Bridge Funds, Inventory and Inspection Program and authorizing the
1995  1995    Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to prepare an engineering agreement
              between the Borough of Portage and the EADS Group.
Res.  7/3/    Establishing a contribution schedule and funding arrangement as relates to the
5-    1995    Borough of Portage police pension plan for police officers after January 1,
1995          1995.
2-    8/7/    Adopting and ratifying an agreement for intergovernmental cooperation known as
1995  1995    the "Municipal Drug Task Force Agreement."
Res.  12/4/   Appointing the firm of Wessel and Company as the independent auditor for the
7-    1995    Borough for the year 1996.
1995
Res.  1/2/    Endorsing the general intent of the Allegheny Ridge Heritage Coalition to
1-    1996    organize and work towards the accomplishment of implementing trails and other
1996          projects that will enhance recreational opportunities.
Res.  3/4/    Authorizing the Borough to execute all required forms and documents for the
2-    1996    purpose of obtaining financial assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
1996          Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.
2-    4/1/    Providing for salary increases for the year 1996 for certain specified
1996  1996    officers/employees of the Borough.
Res.  4/1/
3-    1996    Approving and executing the Borough of Portage Emergency Operations Plan.
1996
Res.  4/1/    Supporting the efforts of the U.S. Route 219 Association and encouraging
4-    1996    elected representatives to take the necessary steps that U.S. Route 219 be
1996          built as a limited access four lane highway.
Res.  5/6/    Authorizing the filing of a proposal for State financial assistance with the
5-    1996    Pennsylvania Department of Community Affairs.
1996
Res.  6/6/    Agreeing to acquire and furnish at the Borough's costs the necessary easements
6-    1996    and rights-of-way for the rehabilitation of the Portage local protection
1996          project as it relates to the streambank protection on Trout Run.
Res.  12/2/   Providing for the Borough Engineer to make inspections in the event a structure
7-    1996    is damaged by fire and the owner does not take the necessary steps to secure or
1996          repair the structure.
Res.  12/2/   Advising all proper officials of the intent to participate in the Federal
8-    1996    Special Bridge Funds, Inventory and Inspection Program.
1996
Res.  12/2/   Authorizing and directing Council to take whatever steps are necessary and to
9-    1996    do all things necessary to become a participating voting member in the Cambria-
1996          Somerset Council of Governments for both 1997 and 1998.
Res.  12/2/   Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Acquisition and
10-   1996    Development Grant Program and the Department of Conservation and Natural
1996          Resources for the purpose of obtaining grant funds to implement the project
Res.  12/16/  Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan as the independent auditor for the year
11-   1996    1997.
1996
8-    12/16/  Providing for 3.5% salary increases for the year 1997 as provided for in the
1996  1996    1997 adopted budget.
Res.  --/--/  Declaring the intent of the Borough to follow the procedures for disposition of
2-    1997    records as set forth in the Retention and Disposition Schedule for Records of
1997          Pennsylvania Municipalities, issued May 17, 1982.
Res.  --/--/
3-    1997    Authorizing the disposition of certain specified public records.
1997
Res.  4/7/    Entering into an agreement with the Portage Area Joint Recreation Commission to
4-    1997    preserve continuity in the management and operation of the Borough recreational
1997          facilities and programs.
Res.  6/2/    Naming Michael A. Mayers, Regional Manager, of the BGS&G Companies, as broker
5-    1997    of record.
1997
Res.  6/2/    Authorizing the Conemaugh Valley Conservancy, Inc., to conduct a Pennsylvania
6-    1997    rivers conservation program planning project.
1997
1-    2/16/   Providing for 2.5% salary increases for the year 1998 as provided for in the
1998  1998    1998 adopted budget.
Res.  4/6/    Adopting the PSAB deferred compensation plan administered by the Copeland
1-    1998    Companies.
1998
Res.  8/3/    Recognizing the contributions of Edward Smith, first Borough Manager in the
3-    1998    history of Portage Borough.
1998
4-    12/7/   Providing for a $0.35 per hour increase for various specified Borough employees
1998  1998    as provided for in the 1999 adopted budget
Res.  12/7/   Appointing the firm of Dennis Kotzan, CPA as the independent auditor for the
4-    1998    Borough of Portage for the year of 1999.
1998
Res.  12/7/   Appointing the firm of David Greczek, CPA as the independent auditor to audit
5-    1998    the 1997 books of the Special Tax Collector.
1998
1-    1/4/    Establishing longevity payments for nonuniformed employees.
1999  1999
Res.  8/16/   Being authorized by the Township of Portage to apply for a grant on the
1-    1999    Township's behalf for the joint purchase of a street sweeper.
1999
Res.  10/4/   Authorizing and directing the President of Council to sign an agreement on
2-    1999    behalf of the Council.
1999
Res.  10/4/   Authorizing handicapped persons and severely disabled veterans to issue
3-    1999    statements to persons or vehicles for violations of handicapped parking
1999          regulations.
7-    2/7/    Providing for a 35¢ per hour increase for the year 2000, effective January 1,
2000  2000    2000, as provided for in the 2000 adopted budget for the positions as listed.
Res.  6/5/
1-    2000    Authorizing disposition of a surplus vehicle.
2000
Res.          Urging the President and Congress of the United States to work together to
2-    6/5/    reform the financial structure of the Coal Act to ensure that retired miners
2000  2000    continue to receive the health care benefits they were promised and rightly
              deserve.
2-    5/7/    Repealing Ord. 1-1999 and establishing and defining longevity payments for
2001  2001    nonuniformed employees.
Res.  5/7/    Establishing a tax clearing account for the purpose of electronic funds
1-    2001    transfer of Federal and State payroll taxes and quarterly reporting.
2001
Res.  10/1/   Agreeing to participate and cooperate with the Redevelopment Authority in
4-    2001    filing a grant application through the PCDNR for funds to purchase equipment
2001          and materials for Crichton-McCormick Park.
Res.  10/1/
5-    2001    Naming CBIZ Benefits and Insurance Services as Broker of Record.
2001
Res.  12/3/   Establishing a Visa account for the purpose of purchasing merchandise/services
6-    2001    requiring a credit card for emergency situations.
2001
10-   12/17/  Providing for the establishment and maintenance of the 2002 Compensation Plan,
2001  2001    allowing the Borough Manager to set and recommend for pay increases, based upon
              merit or performance.
Res.  1/7/    Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan, CPA, as independent auditor for the
1-    2002    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year 2002.
2002
Res.  5/6/    Authorizing the participation of the Borough Manager and the Borough Secretary
2-    2002    in the PSAB Borough Management Caucus.
2002
Res.  5/6/    Awarding the Grannas Brothers Stone & Asphalt Co., Inc., of Hollidaysburg, PA,
3-    2002    the 2002 street resurfacing program.
2002
Res.  7/1/    Authorizing certain individuals access to the safety deposit box located at
4-    2002    Portage National Bank.
2002
Res.  9/3/    Authorizing the purchase of an 18-month certificate of deposit in the. amount
6-    2002    of $3,000 to be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund.
2002
Res.  12/2/   Appointing the firm of Dennis Kotzan, CPA, as independent. auditor for the
7-    2002    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2002.
2002
Res.  12/2/   Authorizing the participation of Borough elected officials in the PSAB Services
8-    2002    Ltd. Borough Elected Officials Program, the group term life insurance and
2002          accidental death and dismemberment coverage.
9-    12/16/  Establishing the 2003 wages for Borough employees.
2002  2002
Res.  2/4/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
1-    2003    Tax Funds for 2003.
2003
Res.  3/3/    Entering into an agreement with Feaster Pension Consulting as the municipal
2-    2003    pension plan consultant.
2003
Res.  4/7/    Requesting financial assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
3-    2003    Act for expenses incurred during the winter storm in February, 2003.
2003
Res.  8/18/   Authorizing the Portage Area Planning Commission to make application for a
4-    2003    shared municipal services grant concerning the undertaking of consolidation or
2003          merger of two municipal governments.
Res.  9/2/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
5-    2003    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund.
2003
              Renaming the Borough Secretary, from Michelle D. Harder to Michelle D. Claar,
Res.  10/6/   for all banking and financial institution transactions, bonding, payroll taxes
6-    2003    and electronic fund transactions, notary, and any other, upon her presentation
2003          of a certified "Election to Resume Former Name," in accordance with the law of
              Pennsylvania.
Res.  10/6/   Authorizing and entering into an agreement between Portage Borough and Southern
7-    2003    Alleghenies Planning and Development Commission to provide website hosting at
2003          no charge for the period of November 1, 2003, through October 31, 2004.
Res.  11/3/   Authorizing and entering into an agreement with Portage Volunteer Fire Company
8-    2003    to rent the first floor social hall of the Municipal Building.
2003
Res.          Entering into an agreement with the Portage Volunteer Fire Company for a rental
9-    11/3/   agreement to be used by the Portage Volunteer Fire Company for the purpose of
2003  2003    renting the first floor social hall of the Borough Municipal Building for
              special events.
Res.  11/3/   Awarding the municipal waste hauling contract to Pro Disposal of Summerhill,
10-   2003    Pennsylvania, for garbage/rubbish/refuse and annual spring pickup for a 3-year
2003          period (January 1, 2004, through December 31, 2006)
Res.  11/3/   Implementing an investment policy philosophy for the Uniformed Pension Plan
11-   2003    Account that provides guidance for First Summit Bank and other parties
2003          interested in the management of the plan.
Res.  11/3/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Koltzan, CPA, as independent auditor for the
12-   2003    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2003.
2003
Res.          Entering into a contract with Pro Disposal of Summerhill, Pennsylvania, for
13-   12/1/   garbage/rubbish/refuse and annual spring pickup for a 3-year period (January 1,
2003  2003    2004, through December 31, 2006) and establishing the rates with the Borough
              performing the billing.
8-    12/15/  Establishing the 2004 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2003  2003    Plan.
Res.  12/15/  Entering into an agreement with the Municipal Authority of the Borough of
14-   2003    Portage to perform trash removal collection services for a 3-year period from
2003          January 1, 2004, through December 31, 2006.
Res.  12/15/  Awarding a 2001 F-350 4x4 Cab and Chassis with a 9 foot dump body to Mainline
16-   2003    Motors of Portage, PA in the amount of $33,700.
2003
Res.  12/15/  Authorizing the financial loan obligation with First Summit Bank for the
17-   2003    purchase of a 2001 F-350 Ford cab and chassis with a 9-foot dump bed in the
2003          amount of $32,111.31.
Res.  12/15/  Establishing a § 125 cafeteria plan for employees electing to waive the Borough
18-   2003    health insurance coverage.
2003
Res.  1/5/    Amending department line items for the year end closing of the 2003 financial
19-   2004    records.
2003
Res.  2/2/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
1-    2004    Tax Funds for 2004.
2004
Res.  3/1/    Recognition of Allegheny Mountain Magic and its efforts to enhance the tourism
2-    2004    industry in Portage Borough.
2004
Res.  5/3/    Awarding the 2004 street resurfacing program to New Enterprise Stone and Lime
3-    2004    in the amount $53,718.
2004
Res.  6/6/    Supporting the adoption by the General Assembly of the Governor' Growing
4-    2004    Greener II initiatives to be placed on the November, 2004, ballot for decision
2004          by the citizens of the Commonwealth.
Res.  8/2/    Concerning the adoption of the Cambria County Hazard Mitigation Plan should a
5-    2004    disaster occur within Portage Borough.
2004
Res.  9/7/    Memo for governing body advising of 2004 MMO for the municipal pension plan
6-    2004    pursuant to the requirements of Act 205.
2004
Res.  9/7/    Memo for governing body advising of 2005 MMO for the municipal pension plan
7-    2004    pursuant to the requirements of Act 2005
2004
Res.  9/7/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
8-    2004    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 24 months.
2004
              Establishing a written open records policy pursuant to Act 100 of 200;
Res.          designating a municipal contact person to whom all records requests are to be
9-    9/7/    addressed, business hours, fee schedule, an appeal procedure when access is
2004  2004    denied; providing definition of terms; adopting forms to carry out the policy;
              providing an effective date and the policy posted at the Borough administration
              office.
Res.  11/1/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotam, CPA, as independent auditor for the
10-   2004    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2004.
2004
Res.  12/6/   Authorizing Ms. Sharon McCarthy, Council President, to sign the Federal Bridge
11-   2004    Reimbursement Agreement and other related items for the Jefferson Avenue Bridge
2004          Replacement Program.
6-    12/17/  Establishing the 2005 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2004  2004    Plan.
Res.  3/7/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
1-    2005    Tax Funds for 2005.
2005
Res.  6/6/
2-    2005    Establishing a checking account for the Jefferson Avenue Bridge Program.
2005
Res.  7/6/    Authorizing participation in the Pennsylvania State Association of Borough
3-    2005    Junior Council Person(s) Program.
2005
Res.  4/20/   Approving the transfer of a liquor license from Susquehanna Township to Portage
4-    2005    Borough.
2005
Res.  8/1/    Authorizing Allegheny Development Group, L.L.C., to prepare a grant application
4A-   2005    for a regional comprehensive plan.
2005
Res.  9/6/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit amount of $3,000 to be
5-    2005    deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 24 months.
2005
Res.  11/7/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan, CPA, as independent auditor for the
6-    2005    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2005.
2005
Res.  12/5/
7-    2005    Implementing the National Incident Management System.
2005
1-    12/19/  Establishing the 2006 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2005  2005    Plan.
Res.  2/6/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
1-    2006    Tax Funds for 2006
2006
Res.  5/20/
2-    2006    Proclaiming May 20, 2006 as Second Annual Crop Walk Day
2006
Res.  9/5/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
4-    2006    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 24 months.
2006
Res.  10/2/   Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of
5-    2006    Economical Development, (DCED) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
2006
Res.  11/6/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan, CPA, as independent auditor for the
6-    2006    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2006.
2006
Res.  12/4/   Awarding the municipal waste hauling contract to Pro Disposal of Summerhill,
7-    2006    Pennsylvania, for garbage/rubbish/refuse and annual spring pickup for a 3-year
2006          period (January 1, 2007, through December 31, 2009)
Res.  12/4/   Entering into a contract with Pro Disposal of Summerhill, PA for garbage/
8-    2006    rubbish/refuse and annual spring pickup for a 3-year period (January 1, 2007
2006          through December 31, 2009)
Res.  12/4/   Entering into an agreement with the Municipal Authority of the Borough of
9-    2006    Portage to perform sanitation billing services for a 3-year period from January
2006          1, 2007, through December 31, 2009.
3-    12/15/  Establishing the 2007 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2006  2006    Plan.
Res.  2/5/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
1-    2007    Tax Funds for 2007.
2007
Res.  2/5/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
2-    2007    Tax Funds for the Jefferson Avenue Bridge Replacement Program engineering
2007          services.
6-    5/7/    Entering into an agreement with Cambria County for Emergency Services Mutual
2007  2007    Aid Agreement
Res.  6/4/    Authorizing Gregory P. Letzo to exercise and provide signatures on checks,
3-    2007    certificates of deposits, notes, loans, and any other financial documentation
2007          with First Summit Bank
Res.  9/4/    Authorizing and directing Michelle Claar to sign an agreement on the Borough's
4-    2007    behalf
2007
Res.  9/4/    Authorizing the purchase of an certificate of deposit in the amount of $3, 000
5-    2007    to be solely utilized for capital improvements when deemed necessary.
2007
Res.  9/4/    Authorizing Stephen Lane to exercise and provide signatures on checks,
6-    2007    certificates of deposits, notes, loans, and any other financial documentation
2007          with First Summit Bank
Res.  9/4/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $6,
7-    2007    741.14 to be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 24 months
2007          with Portage National Bank.
Res.  11/5/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan, CPA as independent auditor for the
8-    2007    Borough of Portage for the fiscal year ending 2007.
2007
Res.  11/5/   Entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
9-    2007    to participate in the electronic access to PennDOT systems and becoming a
2007          business partner.
12-   12/14/  Establishing the 2008 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2007  2007    Plan.
Res.  12/14/  Authorizing a supplemental to the Federal Bridge Reimbursement Agreement 098449
10-   2007    with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for the Jefferson Avenue
2007          Bridge Replacement Project.
Res.  12/14/  Entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
11-   2007    to participate in the web-based PA Bridge Management System.
2007
Res.  3/3/
1-    2008    Proclaiming the month of April, 2008, as Occupational Therapy Month.
2008
Res.  3/3/    Authorizing the submission of the County Aid application for 2008 in the
2-    2008    requested allocation amount of $12,000.
2008
Res.  5/5/    Authorizing the submission of the County Aid application for the Jefferson
4-    2008    Avenue Bridge Replacement Program in the requested allocation amount of $4,500.
2008
1-    9/2/    Implementing a Regionalization Agreement between Portage Borough, Portage
2008  2008    Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, and Cassandra Borough, Cambria County,
              Pennsylvania providing for intergovernmental cooperation.
Res.  9/2/    Accepting the resignation of Mayor Joyce A. French due to an illness that
6-    2008    hinders her from fulfilling her duties as Mayor.
2008
Res.  9/15/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of
7-    2008    $16,186.39 to be solely utilized for capital improvements with 1st Summit Bank.
2008
Res.  12/1/   Appointing the firm of Dennis P. Kotzan, CPA as independent auditor for the
8-    2008    Borough of Portage for a 3-year period commencing the fiscal year 2008 through
2008          2010.
3-    12/19/  Establishing the 2009 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2008  2008    Plan.
1-    2/2/    Implementing a municipal cooperation agreement between Portage Borough, Portage
2009  2009    Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, and Cassandra Borough, Cambria County,
              Pennsylvania providing for intergovernmental cooperation.
Res.  2/2/    Authorizing and naming Sharon M. McCarthy, Michelle Claar, and Robert Fox to
1-    2009    exercise and provide signatures on all checks, certificates of deposits, notes,
2009          loans and any other financial documentation with First Summit Bank.
Res.  2/2/    Accepting the resignation of Council member Stephan Lane from Ward 3 due to
2-    2009    personal issues.
2009
Res.  2/17/   Authorizing a supplemental to the Federal Bridge Reimbursement Agreement 098449
3-    2009    with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for the Jefferson Avenue
2009          Bridge Replacement Project.
Res.  3/2/    Authorizing the submission of the County Aid application for 2009 in the
4-    2009    requested allocation amount of $12,000.
2009
Res.  4/6/
4/6/  2009    Proclaiming the month of April, 2009, as Occupational Therapy Month.
2009
6-    9/8/    Adopting an Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement related to Americorp
2009  2009    employee's shared services between Portage Borough, Portage Township and
              Americorp
Res.  9/8/    Appointing Michael Kunko as the voting delegate representing Portage Borough on
5-    2009    the Cambria County TCC and appointing Richard Bernazzoli and/or Sylvia
2009          Mandichak as alternate(s) on the TCC.
Res.          Awarding and entering into a 3-year contract for the municipal waste hauling
6-    11/2/   with Pro Disposal of Summerhill, PA, for the garbage/rubbish/re-fuse and annual
2009  2009    spring pickup for a 3-year period commencing January 1, 2010 through December
              31, 2012.
7-    12/7/   Adopting an Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement related to grant writer
2009  2009    services between Portage Township, Portage Borough, and Cassandra Borough,
              located in Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
Res.  12/7/   Allocating municipal resources in the amount not to exceed $10,000 over a 2-
7-    2009    year period as the Borough portion of the required local share for the
2009          intermunicipal plan of a regional/inter-municipal comprehensive project.
Res.  12/7/   Declaring its intent to follow the schedules and procedures for disposition of
8-    2009    records in accordance with the Municipal Records Manual.
2009
8-    12/18/  Establishing the 2010 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2009  2009    Plan.
Res.  12/18/  Entering into an agreement with the Municipal Authority of Portage Borough to
9-    2009    perform the monthly billing services for a 3-year period commencing January 1,
2009          2010, through December 31, 2012.
Res.  3/1/    Promulgating and establishing a local emergency management agency and
1-    2010    developing a comprehensive emergency plan.
2010
Res.  4/5/    Authorizing the submission of the County Aid application for 2010 in the
2-    2010    requested allocation amount of $12,000.
2010
Res.  3/15/   Supporting the grant funding for the Puritan Trail Project through DCED and the
3-    2010    Allegheny Ridge Corporation.
2010
Res.  4/19/   Requesting financial assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
4-    2010    for expenses incurred during the winter storm in February, 2010.
2010
Res.  5/3/    Awarding the 2010 Street Resurfacing Program to Grannas Brothers Stone &
5-    2010    Asphalt Co., Inc. in the amount of $43,656.
2010
Res.  5/3/    Authorizing Richard Rice, Raymond Kargo, and Diane Batche with the Portage Area
6-    2010    Planning Commission as authorized signatories to rent a safety deposit box with
2010          Mainline National Bank.
              Adopting an intergovernmental cooperation agreement for the purpose of shared
4-    6/7/    services related to the use of equipment and manpower of the other
2010  2010    municipalities under appropriate circumstances between Portage Borough, Portage
              Township, and Cassandra Borough, located in Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
Res.  8/2/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $6,873.50
7-    2010    to be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 30 months with 1st
2010          Summit Bank.
Res.          Authorizing the execution and delivery of an agreement by the Borough of
8-    10/4/   Portage and the Municipal Authority of Portage Water Department for the purpose
2010  2010    of shared services related to the use of equipment and manpower of each
              municipal entity under appropriate circumstances.
Res.          Authorizing the execution and delivery of an agreement by the Borough of
9-    10/4/   Portage and the Portage Area Sewer Authority for the purpose of shared services
2010  2010    related to the use of equipment and manpower of each municipal entity under
              appropriate circumstances.
6-    11/1/   Authorizing the execution and delivery of an agreement by the Borough of
2010  2010    Portage and the Cambria County SERT.
8-    12/17/  Establishing the 2011 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2010  2010    Plan.
              Authorizing intergovernmental cooperation and participation by establishing
              membership with other municipalities pursuant to the requirements of
1-    3/7/    Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, Title 53, §§ 2301 and 2315, being the Act
2011  2011    of December 19, 1996, P.L. 1158, No. 177, commonly known as the
              Intergovernmental Cooperation Law, as amended, of the Commonwealth of
              Pennsylvania as to administration and enforcement of the Uniform Construction
              Code.
Res.          Authorizing the Cambria County Redevelopment Authority and/or the Cambria
1-    3/7/    County Building Codes Enforcement Agency to make an application for a grant on
2011  2011    its behalf to participate in an intermunicipal project for Uniform Building
              Code Enforcement.
Res.  4/4/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
2-    2011    Tax Funds for 2011.
2011
Res.  5/2/    Transferring the remaining balance in the Jefferson Avenue Bridge Project
3-    2011    Checking Account to the Borough General Fund Account and authorizing the
2011          closing of the checking account.
Res.  6/6/
4-    2011    Designating the month of July as park and recreation month.
2011
Res.  9/19/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
6-    2011    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 12 months with 1st
2011          Summit Bank.
Res.          Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
7-    10/17/  board to appoint a liason between it and Berkheimer, the duly appointed
2011  2011    collector of earned income tax for the district, for the express purpose of
              sharing confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
Res.  10/17/  Authorizing and empowering its local tax collector, Berkheimer, to impose and
8-    2011    retain costs of collection on delinquent taxes.
2011
Res.  11/7/   Establishing a checking account for the 10-year Comprehensive, Open Space &
10-   2011    Recreation, Trail Feasibility Plan.
2011
6-    12/16/  Establishing the 2012 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2011  2011    Plan.
Res.          Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
11-   12/16/  board to appoint Berkheimer as its tax hearing officer under and pursuant to
2011  2011    the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights for the express purpose of adjudicating
              appeals thereunder.
Res.          Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
12-   12/16/  board to appoint a liaison between it and Berkheimer, the duly appointed
2011  2011    collector of local services tax for the district, for the express purpose of
              sharing confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
              Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
              board to execute an agreement with Berkheimer whereunder Berkheimer is retained
              as the exclusive tax officer for the collection, administration, receipt and
Res.  12/16/  enforcement of the provisions of the respective tax enactment of the governing
14-   2011    board levying and assessing the local services tax for the term herein defined,
2011          together with such extensions as may be agreed upon, said tax enactment having
              been adopted under and pursuant to the authority of the Pennsylvania Local Tax
              Enabling act; and approving and adopting the rules and regulations prepared by
              Berkheimer to administer and enforce the local services tax.
              Declaring an interest in participating with and in supporting the County of
Res.  1/3/    Cambria in the filing of the application for financial assistance through the
1-    2012    Pennsylvania Competitive CDBG Program, for the construction of water system
2012          improvements in the Village of Martindale, Puritan and Spring Hill, and their
              immediate surrounds.
Res.  1/3/    Adopting the Cambria County Hazard Mitigation Plan as the official Hazard
2-    2012    Mitigation Plan of the Borough of Portage.
2012
Res.  4/2/    Establishing a 10% interest rate on all municipal claims pursuant to 53 P.S. §
3-    2012    7143.
2012
Res.  4/2/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
4-    2012    Tax Funds for 2012.
2012
Res.  8/6/
5-    2012    Establishing an interest bearing savings account from the earned income tax.
2012
Res.  10/1/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
7-    2012    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund for a term of 24 months with 1st
2012          Summit Bank.
Res.  11/5/   Authorizing the certain individuals' access to the safely deposit box located
8-    2012    at S & T Bank.
2012
6-    12/21/  Establishing the 2013 wages for Borough employees according to the Compensation
2012  2012    Plan.
Res.  2/4/    Promulgating and establishing a local emergency management agency and
1-    2013    developing a comprehensive emergency plan.
2013
              Authorizing the President of Borough Council or the Borough Manager to sign and
Res.  2/4/    the Borough Secretary or Assistant Borough Secretary to witness/attest the
2-    2013    "Transportation Enhancement Program Federal Aid Reimbursement Agreement" and/or
2013          any other documents relating to the Mountain Avenue enhancements project on
              behalf of the applicant.
Res.  5/6/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
4-    2013    Tax Funds for 2013.
2013
Res.  7/1/    Approving the procedures for compliance with the procurement of professional
5-    2013    services pursuant to the provisions of Act 44 of 2009.
2013
Res.  9/16/   Entering into an agreement made and entered into by and between the Housing and
10-   2013    Redevelopment Insurance Exchange (HARIE) for membership fees.
2013
Res.  9/16/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
11-   2013    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund with 1st Summit Bank at a rate of
2013          1.06 annual percentage yield for a 30 month term.
Res.  10/7/   Entering into a contribution agreement with the PA Department of Transportation
13-   2013    for intersection improvements on State Route 164 and constructing sidewalks.
2013
Res.  10/7/   Entering into a sidewalk maintenance agreement with the PA Department of
14-   2013    Transportation for the construction and maintenance of sidewalk on State Route
2013          164.
Res.  11/4/   Entering into a contribution agreement with AMFIRE for the construction and
15-   2013    maintenance of intersection improvements on State Route 164 and Dulancey
2013          Avenue.
4-    12/20/  Establishment and maintenance of the 2013 compensation plan.
2013  2013
Res.  1/6/    Authorizing signers on checks, certificates of deposits, notes, loans and other
1-    2014    financial documentation.
2014
Res.  1/6/    Adopting and approving a fee schedule for 2014 from Laurel Inspection Agency
2-    2014    for building permit related issues and administration.
2014
Res.  3/3/    Submitting an application for traffic signal approval to the Pennsylvania
3-    2014    Department of Transportation.
2014
Res.  3/3/    Agreement will Stiffler, McGraw and Associates for the Mountain Avenue
4-    2014    Transportation Enhancement Project.
2014
Res.  3/3/
5-    2014    Accepting the resignation of Councilmember Martin Slanoc.
2014
1-    4/7/    Authorizing the execution of a RUS guaranty agreement between the Municipal
2014  2014    Authority of the Borough of Portage and the Borough of Portage.
Res.  5/5/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
6-    2014    Tax Funds for 2014.
2014
Res.  5/19/
7-    2014    Establishing base amounts requiring competitive bidding.
2014
Res.  6/2/    Authorizing small borrowing under Section 8109 of the Local Government Unit
8-    2014    Debt Act for the purchase of a 2014 Ford Taurus Police Cruiser.
2014
Res.  6/2/    Approving amendments to the Articles of Incorporation of the Municipal
9-    2014    Authority of the Borough of Portage.
2014
Res.  9/15/   Declaring intent to following the schedules and procedures for disposition of
11-   2014    records in accordance with the Municipal Records Manual of 2008.
2014
Res.  8/4/    Authorizing specific individuals access to the safety deposit box located at
12-   2014    S&T Bank.
2014
Res.  10/2/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000 to
14-   2014    be deposited into the Capital Reserve Fund with 1st Summit Bank.
2014
Res.  10/6/   Appointing the firm of Kotzan CPA & Associates, P.C. as Independent Auditor for
15-   2014    the Borough for a 3-year period.
2014
Res.  10/6/   Opposing the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed Clean Power Plan
16-   2014    and calling to schedule a public hearing on the coalfields.
2014
6-    12/19/  Providing for the establishment and maintenance of the 2015 compensation plan.
2014  2014
Res.  1/5/
1-    2015    Establishing base amounts requiring competitive bidding.
2015
Res.  1/5/
3-    2015    Appointing Mildred Chappell as the Deputy Tax Collector.
2015
Res.  3/2/
4-    2015    Naming broker of record for the 457 deferred compensation plan.
2015
Res.  3/16/   Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
5-    2015    Tax Funds for 2015.
2015
Res.  4/6/    Authorizing the lease of a safety deposit box with First Summit Bank and naming
7-    2015    certain individuals access.
2015
Res.  6/15/   Requesting a Greenways, Trails, and Recreation Program grant of $81,068.75 from
8-    2015    the Commonwealth Financing Authority to be used for Crichton-McCormick Restroom
2015          Project.
Res.  6/1/    Requesting a Flood Mitigation Grant of $250,000 from the Commonwealth Financing
9-    2015    Authority to be used for Trout Run Flood Protection Project.
2015
3-    7/20/   Designating areas eligible for a tax exemption pursuant to the local Economic
2015  2015    Revitalization Tax Assistance Act.
Res.  11/16/  Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,000
11-   2015    with First Summit Bank at a step-up rate of 1.41 percentage yield over a 30-
2015          month term.
6-    12/18/  Providing for the establishment and maintenance of the 2016 compensation plan.
2015  2015
Res.  2/16/
2-    2016    Declaration of disaster emergency in the wake of winter storm Jonas.
2016
Res.  3/21/   Making application to Cambria county for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
3-    2016    Tax Funds for 2016.
2016
Res.  3/21/
4-    2016    Mayoral proclamantion announcing April 21 as “Power Talk 21 Day.”
2016
Res.  6/20/   Agreement with the Portage Volunteer Fire Company for a rental agreement to be
6-    2016    used for the purpose of renting the first floor social hall of the Borough
2016          Municipal Building for special events.
Res.  11/7/   Authorizing the purchase of a Certificate of Deposit in the amount of $3,000.00
7-    2016    with First Summit Bank at a step-up rate of 1.21 percentage yield over a 30
2016          month term.
Res.  11/7/
8-    2016    Adopting the Cambria County Hazard Mitigation Plan.
2016
Res.  11/21/
9-    2016    Authorizing the sale of the Borough’s 2009 Ford Cruiser.
2016
Res.  12/5/
11-   2016    Applying for a grant for a Portage Recreation Manager Study.
2016
Res.  12/5/   Committing $1,000 as the local share of the project cost of a Peer to Peer
12-   2016    Study grant.
2016
Res.  12/5/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Pennsylvania
13-   2016    Department of Transportation to be used for the “Sidewalk Improvement Project -
2016          Phase 2" along the easterly side of Main Street (S.R. 0164).
Res.  12/ /   Confirming funding for the Borough’s 30% match for the Portage Borough Sidewalk
14-   2016    Improvements Project - Phase 2.
2016
Res.  1/3/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
1-    2017    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2017
Res.  2/6/    Authorizing council members to participate in meetings via telecommunication
2-    2017    devices.
2017
Res.  3/6/    Committing funds for a PA Dept of Conservation and Natural Resources Peer to
3-    2017    Peer Study Grant.
2017
Res.  4/17/   Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
4-    2017    Tax Funds for 2017.
2017
Res.  7/17/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $440,905.50 from the
5-    2017    Commonwealth Financing Authority to be used for the "Sidewalk Improvement
2017          Project - Phase 2" along the easterly side of Main Street (S.R. 0164).
Res.  8/7/    Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $401,244.00 from the
6-    2017    Commonwealth Financing Authority to be used for the "Sidewalk Improvement
2017          Project - Phase 2" along the easterly side of Main Street (S.R. 0164).
Res.  10/2/   Authorizing the purchase of a Certificate of Deposit in the amount of
7-    2017    $23,224.97 with First Summit Bank at a step-up rate of 1.21 percentage yield
2017          over a 30 month term.
Res.  12/4/   Establishing a fee schedule for sanitation services for Borough residents for a
8-    2017    12-month period from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018.
2017
Res.  12/18/
9-    2017    Prohibiting Category 4 casinos in the Borough.
2017
Res.  1/15/   Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
2-    2018    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2018
Res.  1/15/   Authorizing the lease of a safety deposit box with First Summit Bank and naming
3-    2018    certain individuals access.
2018
Ord.          Authorizing, adopting and ratifying the Municipal Drug Task Force Agreement
1-    2/5/    which will provide for Portage Borough's participation in the Municipal Drug
2018  2018    Task Force Program throughout the Commonwealth to coordinate narcotics
              investigations, enforcement and prosecution activities.
Res.          Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $500,000 from the
6-    3/19/   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to be used for the "Sidewalk
2018  2018    Improvement Project - Phase 3" along portions of the easterly and westerly
              sides of Main Street (S.R. 0164).
Res.  4/2/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
7-    2018    Tax Funds for 2018.
2018
Res.  4/2/    Authorizing the purchase of a Certificate of Deposit in the amount of
8-    2018    $11,897.08 with S & T Bank at a rate of 2.0 percentage yield with a 24- month
2018          term.
Res.  5/7/    Requesting a Flood Mitigation grant of $258,890 from the Commonwealth Financing
9-    2018    Authority of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to be used for the Trout Run
2018          Stream Stabilization Project.
Res.  5/21/   Authorizing the purchase of a Certificate of Deposit in the amount of $3,107.19
10-   2018    with First Summit Bank at a rate of 2.36% percentage yield for a 25-month term.
2018
Res.  9/17/   Authorizing the purchase of a Certificate of Deposit in the amount of $9,416.76
11-   2018    with First National Bank at a rate of 2.25 percentage yield with a 13-month
2018          term.
Res.  10/1/   Submitting an application for traffic signal approval to the Pennsylvania
12-   2018    Department of Transportation.
2018
Res.  12/3/   Establishing a fee schedule for sanitation services for Borough residents for a
13-   2018    12-month period from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019.
2018
Res.  12/21/  Entering into an agreement with the Municipal Authority of the Borough of
14-   2018    Portage to perform sanitation billing services for a 3-year period from January
2018          1, 2019, through December 31, 2021.
Res.  1/7/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
1-    2019    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2019
Res.  4/19/
2-    2019    Announcing April, 2019 as “Pennsylvania 811 Safe Digging Month”
2019
Res.  3/4/    Appointing Marion Zunich as the Borough’s Deputy Tax Collector in accordance
3-    2019    with Act 164 of 2014.
2019
Res.  3/18/
4-    2019    Appointing Sylvia Enedy as the Per Capita Tax Collector.
2019
Res.  3/18/   Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of County Liquid Fuels
5-    2019    for 2019.
2019
Res.  4/1/    Committing funds for a PA Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
6-    2019    Small Community Grant Program for Crichton McCormick Park Improvements.
2019
Res.  5/20/   Requesting flood mitigation grant of $499,800.00 from the Commonwealth
7-    2019    Financing Authority to be used for the Trout Run Stream Stabilization Project.
2019
Res.  5/20/
8-    2019    Signing a drainage agreement.
2019
Res.  5/20/
9-    2019    Signing a sidewalk agreement.
2019
Res.  5/20/   Urging the Pennsylvania State Legislature to enact an amendment to the right to
10-   2019    know law and provide relief from vexatious requesters.
2019
Res.  7/15/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $298,165.00 from the
11-   2019    Commonwealth Financing Authority to be used for the sidewalk improvement
2019          project - Phase 3A project.
Res.  10/7/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $327,654.00 from the
13-   2019    Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) to be used for the be used
2019          for the sidewalk improvement project - Phase 3A project.
Ord.  12/20/  Recommending pay increases for uniform and nonuniform employees in accordance
4-    2019    with the 2020 compensation plan.
2019
Res.  1/6/
1-    2020    Resolving to partner with the U.S. Census Bureau.
2020
Res.  1/6/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
2-    2020    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2020
Res.  1/6/    Designating signatories for the General Fund, State Liquid Fuels, and Capital
3-    2020    Improvement Fund with First Summit Bank.
2020
Res.  1/6/    Authorizing certain individuals to access the safety deposit box with First
4-    2020    Summit Bank.
2020
Res.  2/3/
5-    2020    Appointing Courtney St. Clair as the Deputy Tax Collector.
2020
Res.  2/3/
6-    2020    Appointing David Layo as the Per Capita Tax Collector.
2020
Res.  2/18/
7-    2020    Disposition of several records from 1/1/2004 to 12/31/2009.
2020
Res.  2/18/   Establishing an interest- bearing checking account for the Portage Area
8-    2020    Regional Peer Study Project.
2020
Res.  2/18/   Authorizing the financial loan obligation with 1st Summit Bank for the purchase
9-    2020    of a 2020 Case 580SN backhoe in the amount of $49,300.
2020
Res.  3/3/    Making an application to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
10-   2020    for a grant.
2020
Res.  3/16/
11-   2020    Declaring a disaster emergency.
2020
Res.  4/8/
12-   2020    Declaration of disaster emergency.
2020
Ord.  5/4/    Authorizing small borrowing for capital purposes under Section 8109 of
1-    2020    Pennsylvania’s Local Government Unit Debt Act.
2020
Ord.  5/4/
2-    2020    Amending the police pension plan to provide “window” retirement benefits.
2020
Res.  5/4/    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of
13-   2020    $26,792.13 with the 1st Summit Bank at a rate of .61% percentage yield for a
2020          12-month term.
Res.  5/4/    Ratifying actions taken via telecommunication vote since Council’s March 2,
14-   2020    2020 public meeting.
2020
Res.  6/15/   Submitting application for traffic signal approval to the Pennsylvania
16-   2020    Department of Transportation.
2020
Res.  6/15/   Establishing an interest- bearing checking account for the DCNR CMP development
17-   2020    project.
2020
Res.  6/15/   Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $3,261.91
18-   2020    with a rate of 1.01% percentage yield for a 25-month term.
2020
Ord.  7/20/
3-    2020    Amending the non-uniform pension plan.
2020
Res.  7/20/   Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of county liquid fuels
19-   2020    for 2020.
2020
Res.  7/20/   Establishing an interest- bearing checking account for the United States
20-   2020    Department of Justice assets and forfeiture funds.
2020
Res.  8/17/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $298,165 from the
21-   2020    Commonwealth Financing Authority of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to be used
2020          for the sidewalk improvement project.
Res.  10/19/  Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant of $327,654 from the
22-   2020    Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to be used for the sidewalk
2020          improvement project.
Res.  12/14/  Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit in the amount of $9,994.81
23-   2020    at a rate of .36% for a 24-month term.
2020
Ord.  12/18/  Allowing the Borough Manager to set and recommend pay increases for uniform and
10-   2020    non-uniform employees in accordance with the 2021 compensation plan.
2020
Res.  12/18/  Establishing a fee schedule for sanitation collection services for Borough
25-   2020    residents for a 12-month period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021.
2020
Res.  1/4/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
1-    2021    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2021
Res.  1/18/   Authorizing designated signatories for all financial checking, savings accounts
2-    2021    and documentation with First Summit Bank and any other financial institutions.
2021
Res.  1/18/
2A-   2021    Appointing Kami Rocker-Lidwell as Borough Mayor.
2021
Res.  2/16/   Designating Robert A. Koban, Borough Manager, to execute all documents and
3-    2021    agreements between the Borough and the Pennsylvania Department of
2021          Transportation relating to Main Street Improvement Project moving of funds.
Res.  4/5/    Making application to Cambria County for the allocation of county liquid fuels
5-    2021    for 2021.
2021
Res.  5/3/
6-    2021    Requesting grant funding for asphalt paving at the Crichton McCormick Park.
2021
Res.  6/7/    Retaining Berkheimer as the exclusive tax collector for the collection of
7-    2021    delinquent per capita tax.
2021
Res.  6/7/    Authorizing Berkheimer to impose and retain costs of collection on delinquent
8-    2021    taxes.
2021
Res.  6/7/    Authorizing the appointment of a liaison between the governing board and
9-    2021    Berkheimer, for the express purpose of sharing confidential tax information for
2021          official purposes.
Res.  6/7/
10-   2021    Authorizing the appointment of Berkheimer as the tax hearing officer.
2021
Res.  7/19/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Commonwealth
11-   2021    Financing Authority to be used for sidewalk improvement.
2021
Res.  9/20/
12-   2021    Authorizing the signing of an agreement.
2021
Res.  10/4/   Authorizing the Borough Manager to sign for the Cambria County Tax Claim
13-   2021    Judicial Sales.
2021
Res.  10/4/
14-   2021    Financially supporting the Portage Area Joint Parks and Recreation Commission.
2021
Res.  10/18/  Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Pennsylvania
15-   2021    Department of Transportation to be used for sidewalk improvement.
2021
              Adopting an intergovernmental cooperation agreement by and between Portage
Ord.  11/1/   Borough, Portage Township, and the Portage Area School District, by creating
7-    2021    and continuing the Portage Area Joint Parks and Recreation Commission and
2021          providing for the acquisition, development and operation of regional parks and
              recreation areas, facilities and programs.
Res.  11/1/
16-   2021    Financially supporting the Portage Area Joint Parks and Recreation Commission.
2021
Res.  11/15/  Authorizing designated signatories for all financial and banking transaction
18-   2021    with First National Bank.
2021
Res.  11/15/
20-   2021    Appointing Courtney St. Clair as Deputy Tax Collector.
2021
Res.  12/17/  Accepting the Final Peer Report and closing out the Community Conservation
21-   2021    Partnerships and DCNR grant project.
2021
Res.  1/3/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
1-    2022    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2022
Res.  1/17/
2-    2022    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2022
Res.  3/7/    Requesting a Statewide Local Share Assessment Grant to purchase a sweeper
3-    2022    truck.
2022
Res.  4/18/
4-    2022    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2022
Res.  5/2/    Making application to Cambria County for the 2022 allocation of county liquid
5-    2022    fuels.
2022
Res.  5/16/   Making application to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for
6-    2022    a grant to hire a Recreation Manager.
2022
Res.  6/20/
7-    2022    Requesting a CFA MTF grant for Phase 6 sidewalk improvements.
2022
Res.  7/18/
8-    2022    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2022
Res.  8/15/
9-    2022    Establishing an emergency management agency and emergency procedures.
2022
Res.  9/19/   Confirming support of the Main Line Canal Greenway and the September 11
13-   2022    National Memorial Trail.
2022
Res.  10/17/  Requesting a C2P2 grant from the Department of Conservation and Natural
15-   2022    Resources for Crichton McCormick Park lighting and playground improvements.
2022
Res.  11/7/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Pennsylvania
16-   2022    Department of Transportation to be used for sidewalk improvements.
2022
Res.  12/16/
18-   2022    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2022
Res.  1/3/    Establishing the base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
1-    2023    telephonic quotations as per section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2023
Res.  1/3/    Authorizing certain individuals to access the safety deposit box with First
2-    2023    Summit Bank.
2023
Res.  1/3/    Authorizing designated signatories for the General Fund, State Liquid Fuels,
3-    2023    and Capital Improvement Fund with First Summit Bank.
2023
Res.  2/21/
4-    2023    Authorizing the purchase of 2 certificates of deposit.
2023
Res.  3/20/   Making application to Cambria County for the 2023 allocation of county liquid
5-    2023    fuels.
2023
Res.  3/20/   Requesting a grant from the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
6-    2023    for park lighting and playground improvements.
2023
Res.  5/1/
7-    2023    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2023
Res.  5/15/
8-    2023    Authorizing the purchase of a certificate of deposit.
2023
Res.  7/17/   Authorizing a traffic signal maintenance agreement with the Department of
9-    2023    Transportation.
2023
Res.  6/5/    Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Commonwealth
10-   2023    Financing Authority to be used for the Crichton McCormick Park lighting
2023          project.
Res.  7/17/   Declaring the intent to follow the schedules and procedures for disposition of
11-   2023    records in accordance with the Municipal Records Manual of December 16, 2008.
2023
Res.  10/2/   Requesting a Statewide Local Share Assessment grant through the Commonwealth
13-   2023    Financing Authority to purchase a sweeper truck.
2023
Res.  10/2/   Requesting a Multimodal Transportation Fund grant from the Pennsylvania
14-   2023    Department of Transportation to be used for sidewalk improvements - phase 5
2023          lighting project.
Res.  1/2/    Designating signatories for the General Fund, state liquid fuels, and Capital
1-    2024    Improvement Fund with First Summit Bank.
2024
Res.  1/2/    Authorizing certain individuals to access the safety deposit box with First
2-    2024    Summit Bank.
2024
Res.  2/5/    Establishing base amounts requiring competitive bidding and written and
3-    2024    telephonic quotations as per Section 2 of Ordinance No. 2-2014.
2024
Res.  2/20/
4-    2024    Announcing April, 2024 as “Pennsylvania 811 Safe Digging Month.”
2024
             
 
 
 
APPENDIX E
PLAN APPROVAL
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./Res.    Date      Description
                       Adopting and submitting to the Department of
Res. 6-1995  10/2/1995 Environmental Resources for its approval as a revision
                       to the official sewage facilities plan the Caldwell
                       Avenue Area planning module.
Res. 6-2013  8/5/2013  Adopting the Ten Year Comprehensive Plan.
Res. 7-2013  8/5/2013  Adopting the Trial Feasibility Plan.
Res. 8-2013  8/5/2013  Adopting the Open Space and Recreation Plan.
Res. 13-2014 9/15/2014 Closing out community Conservation Partnerships Grant
                       Project.
Res. 1-2016  2/1/2016  Establishing the Borough of Portage Emergency Operations
                       Plan.
Res. 10-2022 8/15/2022 Adopting the Cambria County 2022 Hazard Mitigation Plan.
                      
 
APPENDIX F
PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord./Res.    Date      Description
                       Agreement for the exchange of real estate between Thomas
256          6/16/1964 G. Eastland and Rhoda Eastland and the Borough of
                       Portage.
                       Selling to Bethany United Methodist Church the two 12
Res. 2-1994  2/7/1994  foot strips of land adjoining the Portage Borough
                       Property on the west side of Pine Alley and south of
                       Branch Street.
                       Authorizing the appropriation of an area located along
Res. 1A-2008 1/2/2008  Jefferson Avenue in the Borough of Portage and
                       authorizing the filing of a declaration of taking and
                       all necessary action for the acquisition thereof.
 
APPENDIX G
SEWERS
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./ Date Description
Res.
      8/6/ Approving the construction and estimated costs of certain sanitary
310   1973 sewers to be constructed in the Borough by the Portage Area Sewer
           Authority.
      8/6/ Authorizing the conveyance of the Borough owned sewer system to the
311   1973 Portage Area Sewer Authority and directing the proper officers of the
           Borough to make said conveyance.
      8/6/ Authorizing the Portage Area Sewer Authority to lay, construct,
312   1973 maintain, repair and replace sanitary sewer lines and the appurtenances
           thereof in streets, roads, alleys and rights-of-way of the Borough.
      11/  Authorizing the Borough to select and appropriate certain plots of
4-    4/   ground with the improvements thereon situated within the Borough and
1996  1996 owned by James J. Nicholson for the purpose of extending a storm sewer
           line.
Res.  6/4/ Requesting the Portage Area Sewer Authority to amend its Articles of
2-    2001 Incorporation to extend the Authority's term of existence from March 30,
2001       2020 to March 30, 2070.
Res.  10/  Adopting an Act 537 Plan Minor Revision to the Sewage Facilities
12-   7/   Existing Plan.
2013  2013
Res.  1/5/ Appointing the Portage Area Sewer Authority as the Borough’s Ordinance
2-    2015 Compliance Officer to enforce the provisions of the Lateral Testing
2015       Ordinance.
          
 
APPENDIX H
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
This appendix contains an alphabetical listing of streets, and, under each
street, a listing of all ordained activities.
Name Activity Location Ord./Res. Date
Name              Activity       Location              Ord./Res.     Date
                                 Access road to new
Andrew Margo Way  dedicating and maintenance building  4-2003        5/5/2003
                  naming         in Crichton McCormick
                                 Park
                                 Renamed from Spruce
Ash Street        renaming       Street; Between       2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Washington Avenue and
                                 Webster Avenue
                                 Renamed to Lincoln
                                 Terrace Circle; to
Beech Street      renaming       Lincoln Avenue        2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 through Lincoln
                                 Terrace Homes
                                 From Johnson Avenue
Blair Street      curbing        to Portage Township   2-1982        7/6/1982
                                 line
                                 From Fremont Avenue
Blair Street      adopting       southwest             2-1976        6/7/1976
                                 approximately 488
                                 feet
Blair Street      sewer                                163           9/15/1948
Blair Street      sewer                                L             –/–/1917
Blair Street      curbing        From Jefferson Avenue 308           7/2/1973
                                 to Johnson Avenue
Caldwell Avenue   adopting       From Grant Street to  298           6/5/1972
                                 Portage Township line
                                 Between Sonman Avenue
Cambria Street    curbing        and the Portage       267           8/7/1967
                                 Township line
Chestnut Street   dedicating     From Washington       3-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Avenue to Sherry Lane
Conemaugh Avenue  curbing        From Hammers Street   307           7/2/1973
                                 to Oak Street
Conemaugh Avenue  sewer                                L             –/–/1917
Cunard Street     curbing        From Gillespie Avenue 314           7/2/1973
                                 to Caldwell Avenue
                                 Renamed from
Dulancy Drive     renaming       Washington Avenue;    2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 From the Borough line
                                 to Lee Street
                                 From Caldwell Avenue
Farren Street     curbing        to Railroad Street,   272           7/25/1968
                                 South
Farren Street     curbing        From Mountain Avenue  309           7/2/1973
                                 to Johnson Avenue
                                 In a southerly
Farren Street     extending      direction to Johnson  166           1/9/1950
                                 Avenue
Freemont Avenue   accepting      A portion of          235           12/15/1960
Freemont Avenue   vacating       From Second Alley to  236           12/15/1960
                                 Main Street
Freemont Avenue   vacating       Between Second Alley  4-1994        4/4/1994
                                 and Lee Street
Freemont Avenue   adopting       From Lee Street to    2-1976        6/7/1976
                                 Grove Street
Gillespie Avenue  sewer                                163           9/15/1948
Gillespie Avenue  improving      A portion of          1             9/8/1924
Grant Street      sewer          A portion of          2             9/6/1926
Grant Street      improving      From Mountain Avenue  232           5/11/1959
                                 to Johnson Avenue
Grant Street      sewer          Southeast to Borough  253           2/12/1954
                                 line
Grove Avenue      vacating       Between Hopper Avenue 288           8/3/1970
                                 and a Borough alley
Hammers Street    sewer          From Johnson Avenue   152           9/4/1945
                                 to Conemaugh Avenue
Hammers Street    sewer          From Johnson Avenue   153           9/4/1945
                                 to Conemaugh Avenue
Hammers Street    curbing        From Conemaugh Avenue 234           7/11/1960
                                 to Johnson Avenue
                                 From Park Avenue to
High Street       adopting       Railroad Street,      297           6/5/1972
                                 South
                                 From Lee Street in a
Hopfer Avenue     sewer          westerly direction    159           7/8/1947
                                 approximately 500
                                 feet
                                 From the west side of
Hopfer Avenue     curbing        Lee Street to the     246           8/13/1962
                                 west side of Grove
                                 Avenue
Johnson Avenue    sewer          From Blair Street to  152           9/4/1945
                                 Herman Street
                                 From Sherman Street
Johnson Avenue    improving      to the side of the    232           5/11/1959
                                 Portage Area Schools
Johnson Avenue    sewer                                L             –/–/1917
Johnson Avenue    curbing        From Main Street to   3-1976        6/7/1976
                                 Sherman Street
Johnson Avenue    sewer          From Blair Street to  153           9/4/1945
                                 Herman Street
                                 From Sherman Street
Johnson Avenue    adopting       to the school         2-1976        6/7/1976
                                 property
                                 From Blair Street
Johnson Avenue    curbing        westward to Hammers   214           7/3/1956
                                 Street
Lee Street        sewer          Webster Avenue to     M             10/4/1920
                                 Washington Avenue
Lee Street        sewer          Extension of sewer    0             4/7/1923
                                 From Washington
                                 Avenue in a northerly
Lee Street        improving      direction             158           5/17/1947
                                 approximately 1,500
                                 feet
                                 Renamed from Portage
Legion Avenue     renaming       Avenue; Between Main  2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Street and Lee Street
                                 Spruce Street to
Lincoln Street    curbing        Lincoln Avenue to the 259           6/7/1965
                                 housing project
                                 Renamed from Beech
Lincoln Terrace   renaming       Street; To Lincoln    2-1993        6/7/1993
Circle                           Avenue through
                                 Lincoln Terrace Homes
Main Street       sewer          Extension of sewer    0             4/7/1923
Main Street       sewer          Southeast to Borough  253           2/12/1954
                                 line
Main Street       grading                              157           5/17/1946
Main Street       paving         A portion of P-       B             7/5/1923
McClellan Street  curbing        From Park Avenue to   2-1979        8/6/1979
                                 Caldwell Avenue
                                 From Mountain Avenue
McClellan Street  curbing        northward to Park     219           8/5/1957
                                 Avenue
                                 From Park Avenue to
McClelland Street adopting       Railroad Street,      297           6/5/1972
                                 South
Mountain Avenue   sewer          A portion of          2             9/6/1926
                                 From Grant Street to
Mountain Avenue   improving      site of the Portage   232           5/11/1959
                                 Area Schools
Mountain Avenue   improving      From Freemont to      154           10/19/1945
                                 Grant Street
Oak Street        curbing        From Johnson Avenue   280           10/6/1969
                                 to Jefferson Avenue
Oak Street        curbing        From Johnson Avenue   278           6/30/1960
                                 to Jefferson Avenue
                                 State Highway Route
Old Portage Road  improving      276, Section 17 from  Res. 7/3/1957
                                 stations 910-16 to
                                 927-55
Old Portage Road  improving                            220           8/5/1957
Orange Avenue     curbing        From Lee Street to    3-1975        7/7/1975
                                 Blair Street
Orange Avenue     sewer          Extension of sewer    0             4/7/1923
Park Avenue       improving      From intersection     154           10/19/1945
                                 with Grant Street
Park Avenue       improving      From Grant Street to  232           5/11/1959
                                 McClellan Street
                                 From McClelland
Park Avenue       adopting       Street to Portage     297           6/5/1972
                                 Township line
                                 Renamed to Legion
Portage Avenue    renaming       Avenue; Between Main  2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Street and Lee Street
Portage Street    curbing        From Main Street to   273           7/25/1968
                                 Lee Street
Public Alley      vacating                             165           3/7/1949
Railroad Avenue,  vacating       Lee Street 352 feet   210           6/25/1956
North                            to dead end
Railroad Avenue,  curbing        From Pine Street to   2-1975        7/7/1975
North                            Main Street
                                 From Lee Street to
Railroad Avenue,  curbing        the western terminus  219           8/5/1957
North                            of said Railroad
                                 Avenue, North
Railroad Street,  sewer                                L             —/--/1917
South
Railroad Street,                 From Prospect Street
South             adopting       to Portage Township   297           6/5/1972
                                 line
                                 From the north side
River Alley       vacating       of Webster Avenue to  250           5/6/1963
                                 Spruce Street
                                 From Caldwell Avenue
Sherman Street    adopting       to Railroad Street,   297           6/5/1972
                                 South
Sherman Street    improving      From Park Avenue to   232           5/11/1959
                                 Johnson Avenue
Sherman Street    curbing        From Park Avenue and  287           8/3/1970
                                 North
Sherman Street    curbing        From Caldwell Avenue, 1-1977        8/29/1977
                                 South
Sherman Street    adopting       From Park Avenue to   2-1976        6/7/1976
                                 Caldwell Avenue
Sherry Lane       dedicating     From Beech Street to  3-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Chestnut Street
Sherry Lane       adopting       From Chestnut Street  3A-1985       11/4/1985
                                 to Locust Street
Sonman Avenue     sewer                                L             --/—/1917
Sonman Avenue     sewer          From Oak Street to    152           9/4/1945
                                 Hammens Streets
                                 From Blair Street
Sonman Avenue     curbing        westerly to Hammers   219           8/5/1957
                                 Street
Sunman Avenue     sewer          From Oak Street to    153           9/4/1945
                                 Hammens Streets
Spruce Street     curbing        From Spruce to        259           6/7/1965
                                 Lincoln Avenue
                                 Renamed to Ash
Spruce Street     renaming       Street; Between       2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Washington Avenue and
                                 Webster Avenue
Spruce Street     curbing        From Lincoln Avenue   318           6/17/1974
                                 to Washington Avenue
                                 Renamed from Unnamed
Terrace Circle    renaming       Street; From          2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Washington Avenue to
                                 Terrace Circle
                                 Between Mountain
Unnamed Alley     vacating       Avenue and Johnson    211           6/25/1956
                                 Avenue
Unnamed Alley     vacating       In the plan of        252           8/5/1963
                                 Hammers Addition
                                 Renamed to Beech
Unnamed Street    renaming       Street; From          2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Washington Avenue to
                                 Terrace Circle
Vine Street       sewer                                L             --/—/1917
                                 Renamed to Dulancy
Washington Avenue renaming       Drive; From the       2-1993        6/7/1993
                                 Borough line to Lee
                                 Street
                                 From Lee Street to
Webster Avenue    curbing        Blair Street; Blair   259           6/7/1965
                                 Street to Spruce
                                 Street
 
APPENDIX I
WATER
 
Ord./Res. Date      Description
                    Authorizing the Municipal Authority of the Borough to enter
8         9/24/1942 upon any of the streets, alleys or lanes of the Borough for
                    the purpose of digging the necessary ditches to lay down,
                    alter, repair and inspect water pipes.
 
APPENDIX J
ZONING; PRIOR ORDINANCES
(Reserved to accommodate future enactments)
 
KEY TO THE DISPOSITION OF ALL ORDINANCES
Ordinance Disposition Number Subject
Ordinance                                       Disposition  Number                                     Subject
1-1914                                          Repealed by  D                                          Bonded
                                                                                                        Indebtedness
7/15/1914                                       Superceded   200, Art. XII, § 1                        Running of Stock
                                                by
D                                               Repeals      1-1914                                     Bonded
                                                                                                        Indebtedness
E                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
10/5/1914                                       Superseded   200, Art. V, § 10                         Curfew
                                                by
F                                               Appendix     C                                          Franchises and
                                                                                                        Services
G                                               Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
H                                               Superseded   200, Art. VII                              Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
I                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
J                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
K                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
L                                               Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
12/2/1918                                       Superseded   200                                        Omnibus Ordinance
                                                by
M                                               Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
N                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
0                                               Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
P-A                                             Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
P-B                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
1                                               Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
2                                               Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3                                               Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
                                                Superseded                                              House Drains;
4                                               by           169                                        Plumbing
                                                                                                        Inspector
5                                               Superseded   200, Art. VII                              Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
                                                                                                        Street Openings;
6                                               Repealed by  3-1999                                     Department of
                                                                                                        Transportation
7                                               Superseded   200, Art. VIII                             Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
1-1941                                          Chapter 1    §§ 301-304                               Municipal
                                                                                                        Authority
2-1942                                          Superseded   200, Art. VII                              Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
8                                               Appendix     I                                          Water
11                                              Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
5/5/1942                                        Tax Rate     1942                                        
149                                             Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
150                                             Superseded   200                                        Street Openings
                                                by
151                                             Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
152                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
153                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
154                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
155                                             Superseded   200, Art. XIII, § 13                      Mechanical
                                                by                                                      Amusement Devices
157                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
158                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
159                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
160                                             Superseded   200, Art. VIII                             Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
161                                             Tax Rate     1948                                        
162                                             Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
163                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
164                                             Tax Rate     1949                                        
165                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
166                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
167                                             Tax Rate     1950                                        
168                                             Superseded   229                                        Per Capita Tax
                                                by
169                                             Superseded   200, Art. IV, § 3                         Water Runoff
                                                by                                                      Drains
170                                             Superseded   200, Art. XIII, §§ 1-12                  Earned Income Tax
                                                by
200                                                                                                   Omnibus Ordinance
Art. I                                          Superseded   3-1996                                     Borough Council
                                                by
Art. II                                         Superseded   3-1996                                     Municipal
                                                by                                                      Officials
Art. III                                        Superseded   3-1996                                     Committees
                                                by
Art. IV                                                                                                
§ 1                                            Superseded   3-1999                                     Streets
                                                by
                                                                                                        Construction and
§ 2                                            Chapter 21   §§ 301-304                               Repair of
                                                                                                        Sidewalks and
                                                                                                        Curbs
§ 3                                            Superseded   313                                        Sewers
                                                by
Art. V                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Conduct
                                                by
Art. VI                                                                                                
§ 1                                            Superseded   3-1999                                     Auctions and
                                                by                                                      Auctioneers
§§ 2-5                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Transient Retail
                                                by                                                      Merchants
§ 6                                            Chapter 13   §§ 401-404                               Transient
                                                                                                        Amusements
§ 7                                            Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
§§ 8-9                                        Repealed by  3-1999                                     Poles, Mains and
                                                                                                        Pipes
§ 10                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Street
                                                by                                                      Excavations
§ 11                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Issuance of
                                                by                                                      Licenses; General
§ 12                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Transient
                                                by                                                      Photographers
                                                Superseded                                              Motor Vehicles
Art. VII                                        by           3-1999                                     and Traffic;
                                                                                                        Regulations
                                                Superseded                                              Motor Vehicles
Art. VIII                                       by           3-1999                                     and Traffic;
                                                                                                        Parking
Art. IX                                         Superseded   3-1999                                     Municipal
                                                by                                                      Authority
Art. X                                                                                                 
§§ 1-7                                        Repealed by  3-1999                                     Fire Limits
                                                                                                        Snow and Ice on
§ 8                                            Chapter 21   § 401                                     Sidewalks and
                                                                                                        Roofs
                                                Superseded                                              Storage of
§ 9                                            by           306                                        Hazardous
                                                                                                        Materials
§ 10                                           Superseded   306                                        Openings
                                                by
§ 11                                           Superseded   306                                        Buildings
                                                by
§ 12                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Ball Playing in
                                                by                                                      Streets
§ 13                                           Superseded   292                                        Water in Streets
                                                by
§ 14                                           Superseded   1-1993                                     Burning of Trash
                                                by                                                      and Rubbish
§ 15                                           Superseded   239                                        Poles, Wires and
                                                by                                                      Awnings
§ 16                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Unattended
                                                by                                                      Refrigerators
§ 17                                           Superseded   3-1999                                     Penalty Provision
                                                by
Art. XI                                         Superseded   3-1999                                     Enforcement
                                                by                                                      (Bail, Etc.)
Art. XII                                                                                               
§ 1                                            Repealed by  3-1999                                     Animals Running
                                                                                                        at Large
§ 2                                            Superseded   255                                        Dogs Running at
                                                by                                                      Large
§ 3                                            Superseded   306                                        Waste
                                                by
                                                Superseded                                              Street
§ 4                                            by           3-1999                                     Obstructions;
                                                                                                        Loading
§ 5                                            Superseded   3-1999                                     Hauling Materials
                                                by
§ 6                                            Repealed by  3-1999                                     Chimneys
§ 7                                            Superseded   306                                        Offensive Matters
                                                by
§ 8                                            Repealed by  3-1999                                     Pig Pens
§ 9                                            Superseded   306                                        Privies
                                                by
Exhibit I                                       Superseded   Res. 5                                     Board of Health
                                                by
Art. XIII                                                                                              
§§ 1-12                                       Superseded   216                                        Earned Income Tax
                                                by
§ 13                                           Superseded   218                                        Mechanical
                                                by                                                      Amusement Devices
210                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
211                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
212                                             Superseded   1-1975                                     Police Pension
                                                by                                                      Fund
213                                             Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
214                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
215                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Bicycle Licensing
                                                                                                        and Registration
216                                             Superseded   222                                        Earned Income Tax
                                                by
217                                             Tax Rate     1957                                        
218 §§ 5,10                                   Chapter 13   §§ 101-109 3-1999                        Mechanical
                                                Repealed by                                             Amusement Devices
219                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
220                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
221                                             Tax Rate     1958                                        
777                                             Superseded   227                                        Earned Income Tax
                                                by
223                                             Superseded   3-1997                                     Volunteer Fire
                                                by                                                      Department
224                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Planning
                                                                                                        Commission
225                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
226                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
227                                             Superseded   233                                        Earned Income Tax
                                                by
228                                             Tax Rate     1959                                        
229                                             Superseded   264                                        Per Capita Tax
                                                by
                                                Superseded                                              Collection and
230                                             by           263                                        Disposal of
                                                                                                        Garbage
231                                             Tax Rate     1959                                        
232                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
233                                             Superseded   261                                        Earned Income Tax
                                                by
234                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
235                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
236                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
237                                             Tax Rate     1961                                        
239                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Signs
                                                Superseded                                              Collection and
240-A                                           by           1-1993                                     Disposal of
                                                                                                        Garbage
                                                Superseded                                              Collection and
240-B                                           by           1-1993                                     Disposal of
                                                                                                        Garbage
241                                             Chapter 1    §§ 501-508                               Planning
                                                                                                        Commission
                                                                                                        Trees;
243                                             Chapter 25   §§ 101-106                               Obstruction of
                                                                                                        Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
244                                             Tax Rate     1962                                        
246                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
247 § 1                                        Superseded   3-1996                                     Police Officers
                                                by
§ 2                                            Superseded   301                                        Curfew
                                                by
                                                Earned       1961                                       Earned Income
248                                             Income       1962                                       Tax
                                                Tax
249                                             Tax Rate     1963                                        
250                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
251                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
252                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
253                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
254                                             Tax Rate     1964                                        
255                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Dogs Running at
                                                                                                        Large
256                                             Appendix     F                                          Public Property
257                                             Tax Rate     1965                                        
258                                             Appendix     C                                          Franchises and
                                                                                                        Services
259                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
260                                             Superseded   313                                        Sewer Tap-Ins
                                                by
261                                             Superseded   5-2011                                     Earned Income and
                                                by                                                      Net Profits Tax
262                                             Tax Rate     1966                                        
                                                Superseded                                              Collection and
263                                             by           1-1993                                     Disposal of
                                                                                                        Garbage
264                                             Chapter 24   §§ 201-212                               Per Capita Tax
Ord. 12/5/1966                                  Per Capita   1967                                        
                                                Tax
265                                             Chapter 10   §§ 201-203                               Weed Control
266                                             Tax Rate     1967                                        
267                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
268                                             Appendix     A                                          Annexation of
                                                                                                        Territory
269                                             Tax Rate     1968                                        
270                                             Chapter 1    §§ 501, 504, 508                         Planning
                                                                                                        Commission
                                                Occupational
271                                             Privilege    1968                                        
                                                Tax
272                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
273                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
274                                          Superseded   3-1987                                     Realty Transfer
                                                by                                                      Tax
275                                             Tax Rate     1969                                        
276                                             Superseded   313                                        Sewer Tap-Ins
                                                by
277                                             Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
278                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
279                                             Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
280                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
281                                             Tax Rate     1970                                        
280                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
281                                             Tax Rate     1970                                        
282                                             Superseded   3-1999                                     Earned Income Tax
                                                by
283                                             Chapter 1    §§ 511-513                               Civil Service
                                                                                                        Commission
284                                             Chapter 1    §§ 311-313                               Sewer Authority
285                                             Superseded   317                                        Mayor's Salary
                                                by
                                                Superseded                                              Collection and
286                                             by           1-1993                                     Disposal of
                                                                                                        Garbage
287                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
288                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
289                                             Chapter 16   §§ 101, 102                              Crichton-
                                                                                                        McCormick Park
290                                             Tax Rate     1971                                        
291                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
292                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Befouling of
                                                                                                        Streets
293                                             Superseded   3-1999                                     Enforcement
                                                by
294                                             Tax Rate     1972                                        
295                                             Superseded   3-1996                                     Councilmen's
                                                by                                                      Salary
296                                             Superseded   3-1996                                     Secretary/
                                                by                                                      Treasurer
297                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
298                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
299                                             Chapter 24   § 202                                     Per Capita Tax
300                                             Tax Rate     1973                                        
301                                             Chapter 6    §§ 101-107                               Curfew
302                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Real Estate
                                                                                                        Registry
303                                             Repealed by  3-1999                                     Bicycle Licensing
                                                                                                        and Registration
304                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
305                                             Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
306                                             Chapter 10   §§ 101-107                               Public Nuisances
307                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
308                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
309                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
310                                             Appendix     G                                          Sewers
311                                             Appendix     G                                          Sewers
312                                             Appendix     G                                          Sewers
313                                             Superseded   6-1996                                     Sewer Connections
                                                by
314                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
315                                             Tax Rate     1974                                        
316                                             Chapter 6    § 107                                     Curfew
317                                             Superseded   2-1989                                     Mayor's Salary
                                                by
318                                             Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
319                                             Tax Rate     1975                                        
320                                             Chapter 4    §§ 201-211                               Building Permits
1-1975                                          Superseded   4-1993                                     Police Pension
                                                by                                                      Plan
2-1975                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3-1975                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
4-1975                                          Tax Rate     1976                                        
                                                Superseded                                              Nonuniformed
5-1975                                          by           8-1994                                     Employee Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
1-1976                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1976                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3-1976                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
                                                Superseded                                              Council,
4-1976                                          by           3-1996                                     Solicitor and
                                                                                                        Engineer Salaries
5-1976                                          Tax Rate     1977                                        
1-1977                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
2-1977                                          Tax Rate     1978                                        
1-1978                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1978                                          Chapter 10   § 105                                     Public Nuisances
1-1979                                          Tax Rate     1979                                        
2-1979                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
1-1980                                          Tax Rate     1980                                        
2-1980                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
                                                                                                        Alcoholic
3-1980                                          Chapter 6    §§ 301-305                               Beverages in
                                                                                                        Public Places
4-1980                                          Chapter 16   § 101                                     Park Regulations
5-1980                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
1-1981                                          Tax Rate     1981                                        
2-1981                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
3-1981                                          Chapter 4    §§ 101-109                               Dangerous
§ 9                                            Repealed by  3-1999                                     Buildings
1-1982                                          Tax Rate     1982                                        
4/5/1982                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Canvassing
                                                by
2-1982                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3-1982                                          Superseded   2-2012                                     Floodplains
                                                by
4-1982                                          Chapter 13   § 105                                     Mechanical
                                                                                                        Amusement Devices
5-1982                                          Tax Rate     1983                                        
1-1983                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1983                                          Tax Rate     1984                                        
1-1984                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1984                                          Tax Rate     1985                                        
3-1984                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
1-1985                                          Chapter 4    § 107                                     Dangerous
                                                                                                        Buildings
2-1985                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
3A-1985                                         Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3B-1985                                         Tax Rate     1986                                        
1-1986                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-1986                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
3-1986                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
4-1986                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
5-1986                                          Chapter 6    § 103                                     Curfew
6-1986                                          Tax Rate     1987                                        
1-1987                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1987                                          Chapter 14   §§ 101, 102                              Mobile Homes
3-1987                                          Chapter 24   §§ 101-117                               Realty Transfer
                                                                                                        Tax
4-1987                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
5-1987                                          Tax Rate     1988                                        
1-1989                                          Tax Rate     1989                                        
2-1989                                          Superseded   3-1996                                     Mayor’s Salary
                                                by
3-1989                                          Chapter 13   § 105                                     Mechanical
                                                                                                        Amusement Devices
4-1989                                          Chapter 6    § 103                                     Curfew
5-1989                                          Chapter 2    §§ 101-106                               Animal Nuisances
11/6/1989                                       Superseded   2-2012                                     Floodplains
                                                by
6-1989                                          Tax Rate     1990                                        
1-1990                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-1991                                          Tax Rate     1991                                        
                                                                                                        Portage Area
2-1991                                          Chapter 1    § 521                                     Joint Recreation
                                                                                                        Commission
3-1991                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Street Opening
                                                by                                                      Repair
1-1993                                          Chapter 20   §§ 101-109                               Solid Waste
2-1993                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3-1993                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
4-1993                                          Superseded   3-1998                                     Police Pension
                                                by                                                      Plan
5-1993                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Police Pension
                                                by                                                      Plan
4-1994                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
                                                                                                        Obscene Material;
5-1994                                          Chapter 13   §§ 201-207                               Prohibited
                                                                                                        Businesses
6-1994                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
7-1994                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
9/6/1994                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
9/7/1994                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
                                                                                                        Nonuniformed
8-1994                                          Repealed by  1-1997                                     Employees Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
9-1994                                          Chapter 20   §§ 201-205                               Recycling
10-1994                                         Superseded   3-1996                                     Auditors
                                                by
11-1994                                         Tax Rate     1995                                        
2/6/1995                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
1-1995                                          Chapter 26   §§ 101-184                               Stormwater
                                                                                                        Management
6/5/1995                                        Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by                                                      and Traffic
2-1995                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-1996                                          Tax Rate     1996                                        
2-1996                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
35218                                           Chapter 20   § 109                                     Solid Waste
3-1996                                          Chapter 1    §§ 101-197                               Administrative
                                                                                                        Code
4-1996                                          Appendix     G                                          Sewers
5-1996                                          Chapter 1    §§ 601-606                               Fire Insurance
                                                                                                        Proceeds
6-1996                                          Chapter 18   §§ 101-112                               Sewer Connections
7-1996                                          Tax Rate     1997                                        
8-1996                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-1997                                          Superseded   2-2007                                     Employee Pension
                                                by                                                      Plan
                                                                                                        Joint Recreation
2-1997                                          Chapter 1    § 522                                     Commission Agree
                                                                                                        ment
                                                                                                        Authorization of
3-1997                                          Chapter 1    §§ 411-414                               Services for
                                                                                                        Portage Volunteer
                                                                                                        Fire Company
4-1997                                          Tax Rate     1998                                        
1-1998                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-1998                                          Repealed by  §§ 501-512                               Contractor’s
                                                                                                        Registration
3-1998                                          Superseded   11-2007                                    Police Pension
                                                by                                                      Plan
4-1998                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
5-1998                                          Tax Rate     1999                                        
1-1999                                          Repealed by  2-2001                                      
2-1999                                          Superseded   3-1999                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                by
3-1999                                          Adopting     Intro. pg. ix                               
                                                Ordinance
8, §§ 202, 203, 210, 211, 401, 403, 501, 503, Superseded   2-2012                                     Floodplains
504                                             by
13, §§ 505, 511                               Repealed by  2-2011                                     Contractor’s
                                                                                                        Registration
24, §§ 301–307                              Superseded   5-2011                                     Earned Income and
                                                by                                                      Net Profits Tax
4-1999                                          Chapter 1    § 155                                     Drug and Alcohol
                                                                                                        Policy
1-2000                                          Chapter 4    § 211                                     Building Permits
2-2000                                          Chapter 6    § 204                                     Discharge of
                                                                                                        Firearms
3-2000                                          Chapter 6    § 107                                     Curfew
4-2000                                          Chapter 10   § 203                                     Weed Control
5-2000                                          Chapter 18   § 112                                     Sewer Connections
6-2000                                          Superseded   1-2001                                     Mobile Homes
                                                by
7-2000                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
8-2000                                          Chapter 10   §§ 401-410                               Junkyards and
                                                                                                        Salvage Yards
9-2000                                          Chapter 4    § 207                                     Building Permits
10-2000                                         Chapter 15   §§ 406, 411                              Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
11-2000                                         Tax Rate     2001                                        
12-2000                                         Budget       2001                                        
1-2001                                          Chapter 14   § 101                                     Mobile Homes
2-2001                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
3-2001                                          Chapter 15   § 402                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
4-2001                                          Budget       Amendment                                  Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
5-2001                                          Chapter 15   § 213                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
6-2001                                          Chapter 15   §§ 412, 901, 904, 905                    Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
7-2001                                          Chapter 15   § 213                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
8-2001                                          Budget       2002                                        
9-2001                                          Tax Rate     2002                                        
10-2001                                         Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-2002                                          Chapter 1    § 154                                     Administrative
                                                                                                        Code
2-2002                                          Chapter 4    § 201                                     Building Permits
3-2002                                          Chapter 1    §§ 511-513                               Civil Service
                                                                                                        Commission
4-2002                                          Chapter 26   §§ 201-207                               Backflow Control
                                                                                                        Policy
5-2002                                          Budget       Amendment                                  Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
6-2002                                          Chapter 15   § 400                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
7-2002                                          Tax Rate     2003                                        
8-2002                                          Budget       2003                                        
9-2002                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-2003                                          Chapter 1    §§ 421-425                               Administrative
                                                                                                        Code
2-2003                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
3-2003                                          Chapter 1    §§ 154, 154.1, 154.2, 154.3, 159, 159.1, Administrative
                                                             159.2                                      Code
4-2003                                          Appendix     H                                          Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
5-2003                                          Chapter 13   § 107                                     Mechanical
                                                                                                        Amusement Devices
6-2003                                          Tax Rate     2004                                        
7-2003                                          Budget       2004                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
8-2003                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-2004                                          Chapter 20   § 105                                     Solid Waste
2-2004                                          Chapter 20   §§ 103, 104, 106                         Solid Waste
3-2004                                          Chapter 24   § 212                                     Per Capita Tax
4-2004                                          Chapter 5    §§ 101 - 106                             Uniform
                                                                                                        Construction Code
5-2004                                          Chapter 15   §§ 206, 207, 301, 402, 403, 406, 411, 412Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2004                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
7-2004                                          Tax Rate     2005                                        
8-2004                                          Budget       2005                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2005                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2005                                          Tax Rate     2006                                        
3-2005                                          Budget       2006                                        
1-2006                                          Chapter 24   § 401                                     Real Estate Tax
                                                                                                        Certifications
2-2006                                          Chapter 15   §§ 201, 204                              Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Governmental and
3-2006                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
4-2006                                          Tax Rate     2007                                        
5-2006                                          Budget       2007                                        
1-2007                                          Chapter 15   § 402                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
2-2007                                          Chapter 1    §§ 201–206                             Employee Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
3-2007                                          Chapter 1    §§ 154, 154.1, 154.2                     Administrative
                                                                                                        Code
4-2007                                          Chapter 15   § 411                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
5-2007                                          Chapter 24   §§ 104, 112                              Realty Transfer
                                                                                                        Tax
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2007                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
7-2007                                          Chapter 15   §§ 406, 501                              Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Registered
8-2007                                          Chapter 11   §§ 101–106                             Sexually Violent
                                                                                                        Offenders
                                                                                                        Restrictions
9-2007                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
10-2007                                         Chapter 24   §§ 501–514                             Local Services
                                                                                                        Tax
11-2007                                         Chapter 1    Part 2B                                    Police Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
                                                                                                        Governmental and
12-2007                                         Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
13-2007                                         Tax Rate     2008                                        
14-2007                                         Budget       2008                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2008                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2008                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
3-2008                                          Chapter 1    § 154                                     Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
                                                                                                        Governmental and
                                               Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
4-2008                                          Tax Rate     2009                                        
5-2008                                          Budget       2009                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2009                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2009                                          Chapter 15   § 207                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
3-2009                                          Chapter 1    § 522                                     Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
4-2009                                          Chapter 19   §§ 101–109                             Billboard Control
5-2009                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2009                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
7-2009                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
8-2009                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
9-2009                                          Tax Rate     2010                                        
10-2009                                         Budget       2010                                        
1-2010                                          Chapter 16   § 101                                     Crichton-
                                                                                                        McCormick Park
                                                                                                        Unopened Streets,
2-2010                                          Chapter 21   §§ 501–503                             Alleys or
                                                                                                        Roadways
3-2010                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Governmental and
4-2010                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
5-2010                                          Chapter 1    Part 2B                                    Police Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2010                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
7-2010                                          Chapter 1    §§ 801–806                             Municipal Energy
                                                                                                        Aggregation
                                                                                                        Governmental and
8-2010                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
9-2010                                          Tax Rate     2011                                        
10-2010                                         Budget       2011                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2011                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2011                                          Fee Schedule Intro. pg. xvii                            Fee Schedule
                                               Repeals      2-1998                                     Contractor’s
                                                                                                        Registration
                                               Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
3-2011                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
4-2011                                          Chapter 10   § 201                                     Weed Control
5-2011                                          Chapter 24   §§ 301–305                             Earned Income and
                                                                                                        Net Profits Tax
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2011                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
7-2011                                          Tax Rate     2012                                        
8-2011                                          Budget       2012                                        
9-2011                                          Chapter 1    Part 2B                                    Police Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
1-2012                                          Chapter 1    Part 2B                                    Police Pension
                                                                                                        Plan
2-2012                                          Chapter 8    §§ 101–902                             Floodplains
3-2012                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
4-2012                                          Tax Rate     2013                                        
5-2012                                          Budget       2013                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2012                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-2013                                          No ordinance                                            
2-2013                                          Chapter 18   Part II                                    Sewers and Sewage
                                                                                                        Disposal
2A-2013                                         Tax Rate     2014                                        
3-2013                                          Budget       2014                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
4-2013                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2014                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2014                                          Chapter 1    § 175                                     Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
3-2014                                          Chapter 1    § 154                                     Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
4-2014                                          Chapter 18   §§ 201 -215                              Sewers and Sewage
                                                                                                        Disposal
5-2014                                          Budget       2015                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2014                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
7-2014                                          Tax Rate     2015                                        
1-2015                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
2-2015                                          Chapter 1    §§ 154.1, 154.2, 159.2                   Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
                                                                                                        Governmental and
3-2015                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
4-2015                                          Budget       2016                                        
5-2015                                          Tax Rate     2016                                        
                                                                                                        Governmental and
6-2015                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
1-2016                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
2-2016                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
3-2016                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
4-2016                                          Tax Rate     2017                                        
5-2016                                          Chapter 1    §154                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
6-2016                                          Chapter 1    §154                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
7-2016                                          Budget       2017                                        
1-2017                                          Chapter 15   §705                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
2-2017                                          Tax Rate     2018                                        
3-2017                                          Chapter 1    §1-154                                    Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
4-2017                                          Budget       2018                                        
1-2018                                          Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
2-2018                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
3-2018                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
4-2018                                          Chapter 21   §402                                      Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
5-2018                                          Tax Rate     2019                                        
6-2018                                          Chapter 1    §1-154                                    Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
7-2018                                          Budget       2019                                        
8-2018                                          Chapter 1    §§1-154, 154.1, 154.2, 159.2             Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
Ord. 1-2019                                     Chapter 1    § 154                                     Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
Ord. 2-2019                                     Budget       2020                                        
Ord. 3-2019                                     Tax Rate     2020                                        
Ord. 4-2019                                     Appendix     D                                          Governmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
1-2020                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
2-2020                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
                                                                                                        Governmental and
3-2020                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
4-2020                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
5-2020                                          Chapter 15   § 406                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
6-2020                                          Chapter 15   § 501                                     Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
                                                                                                        Administration
7-2020                                          Chapter 1    § 154.1                                   and Government
                                                                                                        (personal leave)
8-2020                                          Budget       2021                                        
9-2020                                          Tax Rate     2021                                        
                                                                                                        Administration
10-2020                                         Chapter 1    § 154                                     and Government
                                                                                                        (compensation
                                                                                                        plan)
1-2021                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
2-2021                                          Repealed by  6-2021                                     Buildings
3-2021                                          Chapter 15   §§501, 502                               Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
4-2021                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
5-2021                                          Chapter 21   §116                                      Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
6-2021                                          Chapter 4    §301                                      Buildings
                                                                                                        Governmental and
7-2021                                          Appendix     D                                          Intergovernmental
                                                                                                        Affairs
8-2021                                          Budget       2022                                        
9-2021                                          Tax Rate     2022                                        
10-2021                                         Chapter 1    §154                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
11-2021                                         Chapter 1    §159.2                                    Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
1-2022                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
2-2022                                          Chapter 1    §122                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
3-2022                                          Chapter 6    §§401 - 405                              Conduct
4-2022                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
5-2022                                          Tax Rate     2022                                        
6-2022                                          Chapter 1    §154                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
7-2022                                          Budget       2022                                        
1-2023                                          Chapter 15   §406                                      Motor Vehicles
                                                                                                        and Traffic
2-2023                                          Chapter 21   §§301-311                                Streets and
                                                                                                        Sidewalks
3-2023                                          Appendix     B                                          Bond Issues and
                                                                                                        Loans
4-2023                                          Tax Rate     2024                                        
5-2023                                          Chapter 1    §154                                      Administration
                                                                                                        and Government
6-2023                                          Budget       2024                                        
                                                                                                      
 
 
KEY TO THE DISPOSITION OF SIGNIFICANT RESOLUTIONS
Resolution Disposition Number Subject
Resolution      Disposition      Number           Subject
7/3/1957        Appendix         H                Streets and Sidewalks
1               Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2               Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3               Budget           1958              
4               Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
5               Chapter 10       §§ 301, 302    Department of Health
7/17/1961       Superseded by    Ord. 239         Signs
5/16/1962       Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10/8/1962       Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2/4/1963        Appendix         C                Franchises and Services
1-1975          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1975          Superseded by    Ord. 3-1982      Building Permits
3-1975          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1976          Superseded by    Ord. 3-1999      Volunteer Fire Department
1-1977          Superseded by    Ord. 3-1999      Volunteer Fire Department
2-1977          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
34977           Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1977          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
54977           Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1977          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-1977          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-1977          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1979          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1979          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1979          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1980-A        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1980-B        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1980          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1980          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4/6/1981        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1981          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1981          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1981          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1983          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1984          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1984          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1984          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1984          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-1984          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1984          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
7-1984          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
2/4/1985        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1985-A        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1985-B        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1985          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
1-1986          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
9/10/1986       Superseded by    Ord. 4-1993      Police Pension Plan
2-1986          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
3-1986          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
11/10/1986      Superseded by    Ord. 8-1994      Nonuniformed Employee Pension
                                                  Plan
1-1987          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1987          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
3/9/1987        Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
3-1987          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2/1/1988        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1988          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1989          Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
1-1991-A        Appendix                         Governmental Affairs
1-1991-B        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1991-A        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1991-B        Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1993          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1994          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1994          Appendix         F                Public Property
3-1994          Superseded by    Ord. 3-1999      Fee Resolution
34525           Superseded by    Ord. 3-1999      Fee Resolution
4-1994          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-1994          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1994          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-1994          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1995          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1995          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1995          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1995          Superseded by    Ord. 3-1999      Fee Resolution
5-1995          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1995          Appendix         E                Plan Approval
7-1995          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-1996          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-1996         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-1996         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1997          Chapter 1        § 312           Portage Area Sewer Authority
2-1997          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1997          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1997          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-1997          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-1997          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1998          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1998          Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
3-1998          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-1998          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-1998          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-1999          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-1999          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-1999          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2000          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2000          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2001          Appendix         G                Sewers
3-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2001          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2002          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2002         Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
1-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2003          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
15-2003         Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
16-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
17-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
18-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
19-2003         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2004          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2004         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2004         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4A-2005         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2005          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2006          Not a Resolution                  
4-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2006          Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
9-2006          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2006         Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
1-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2007          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2007         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2007         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1A-2008         Appendix         F                Public Property
1-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2008          Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
4-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2008          Chapter 1        § 701           Administration and Government
6-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2008          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
39908           Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2009          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2009         Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
1-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2010          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2011          Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
6-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2011          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2011          Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
10-2011         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2011         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2011         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2011         Chapter 1        §§ 901–902   Costs of Collection on
                                                  Delinquent Taxes
14-2011         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2012          Fee Schedule     Intro. pg. xvii  Fee Schedule
7-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2012          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2013          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2013          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2013          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2013          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2013          Appendix         E                Plan Approval
7-2013          Appendix         E                Plan Approval
8-2013          Appendix         E                Plan Approval
9-2013          Eliminating handicap access ramps  
10-2013         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2013         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2013         Appendix         G                Sewers
13-2013         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2013         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
15-2013         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
16-2013         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
1-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2014          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2014         No resolution                     
11-2014         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2014         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2014         Appendix         E                Plan Approval
14-2014         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
15-2014         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
16-2014         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
17-2014         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
18-2014         Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
1-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2015          Appendix         G                Sewers
3-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2015          No resolution                     
7-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2015          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2015         Budget amended   2015              
11-2015         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2015         Appendix         G                Sewers
13-2015         Appendix         C                Franchises and Services
14-2015         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
1-2016          Appendix         E                Plan Approval
2-2016          Appendix         D                Disaster emergency
3-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2016          Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
6-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2016          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2016         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
11-2016         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2016         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2016         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2016         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2017          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2018          Budget           2018              
2-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2018          Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
5-2018          Budget           2018              
6-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2018          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2018         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2018         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2018         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2018         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2018         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 1-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 2-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 3-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 4-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 5-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 6-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 7-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 8-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 9-2019     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 10-2019    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 11-2019    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 13-2019    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 14-2019    Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
Res. 1-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 2-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 3-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 4-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 5-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 6-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 7-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 8-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 9-2020     Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 10-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 11-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 12-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 13-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 14-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 15-2020    Chapter 1        § 174           Administration and Government
Res. 16-2020  Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 17-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 18-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 19-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 20-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 21-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 22-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 23-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
Res. 24-2020    Appendix         C                Franchises and Services
Res. 25-2020    Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2A-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2021          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
13-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
15-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
16-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
18-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
19-2021         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
20-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
21-2021         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2022          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2022         Appendix         E                Plan Approval
13-2022         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2022         Chapter 1        §174            Administration and Government
15-2022         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
16-2022         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
17-2022         Fee Schedule     intro p. xviii   Fee Schedule
18-2022         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
1-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
5-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
6-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
7-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
8-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
9-2023          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
10-2023         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
11-2023         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
12-2023         Appendix         B                Bond Issues and Loans
13-2023         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
14-2023         Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
15-2023         Fee Schedule     intro p. xvii    Fee Schedule
1-2024          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
2-2024          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
3-2024          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
4-2024          Appendix         D                Governmental Affairs
                                                
 
 
