CODE OF ORDINANCES
of the
TOWNSHIP OF SOUTH ANNVILLE
Published by Authority of the Township Adopted by Ord. 8/9/1986 on August 9,
1986
 
Revised and supplemented through August 14, 2024 by
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
 
This Code of Ordinances was originally completed on August 9, 1986 by Penns
Valley Publishers. It has subsequently been revised through the following dates
by Penns Valley Publishers:
Revision Dates
12/11/1986
11/9/1991
1/14/1998
The Code of Ordinances has subsequently been revised and supplemented by
Keystate Publishers, Inc., through:
Revision Dates
11/12/2003
9/8/2004
9/13/2006
2/13/2008
11/12/2008
12/14/2011
8/14/2013
10/14/2015
The Code of Ordinances has subsequently been revised and supplemented by
American Legal Publishing Corporation, through:
Revision Dates
12/14/2016
12/13/2017
4/10/2019
7/10/2019
5/12/2021
9/14/2022
8/14/2024
 
OFFICIALS of the
TOWNSHIP OF SOUTH ANNVILLE
County of Lebanon
Pennsylvania
ELECTED OFFICIALS
   Board of Supervisors
   Chairman         -   Dale Hoover
   Vice Chairman      -   Garry Rhine
               -   John W. Harrell
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
   Manager/Secretary/Treasurer   -   Donald H. Umberger
   Solicitor         -   Josele Cleary, Esquire
   Police Chief         -   Ben Sutcliffe
FOREWORD
History
This comprises the codification of the Ordinances of the Township of South
Annville. South Annville Township was originally settled in the 1700's and was
incorporated as a Township on July 30, 1845 from parts of Annville Township.
The Code of Ordinances of the Township of South Annville was prepared by Penns
Valley Publishers and adopted by the Board of Supervisors on August 9, 1986.
Organization
The code contains four parts which are (1) the valid current ordinances of the
Township of South Annville contained in chapters 1 through 27, (2) the appendix
which lists by abstracted title all ordinances of a temporary or "one time"
nature, (3) the key to the disposition of each ordinance ever enacted by the
Township, and (4) the index which is an alphabetical arrangement of subjects.
In the code, each chapter is separated by a divider tab, and specific
ordinances can be located by subject on the contents page at the beginning of
each chapter. The index may also be used to search for a subject when one is
looking for general information on a particular subject, or if it is not known
in which chapter the subject might be found. The appendix consists of several
general categories containing a chronological listing of short subject
descriptions along with a reference to the original ordinance and its date of
enactment if known.
The key to disposition indicates what action has been taken by the codifiers
and the Board of Supervisors with regard to every ordinance ever enacted. An
ordinance has either been (1) specifically repealed, (2) superseded by another
ordinance, (3) is located in a chapter of the code book, or (4) is located in
the appendix. The key is a cross reference to the original ordinance books of
the Township, and to the location within the code of each ordinance by number.
ORDINANCE
An Ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances of the Township of South Annville.
The Township of South Annville hereby ordains:
Section 1. Adoption. The "Code of Ordinances, Township of South Annville," as
prepared and published for the said Township by Penns Valley Publishers,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is hereby adopted as a consolidation, codification
and revision of the ordinances of the Township. Chapters 1 through 27 thereof
contain the text of the body of all general administrative and penal ordinances
of the Township organized as follows:
   Chapter 1..... Administration and Government
   Chapter 6..... Conduct"
   Chapter 13..... Licenses, Permits and General Business Regulations
   Chapter 14..... Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks
   Chapter 15..... Motor Vehicles and Traffic
   Chapter 18..... Sewers and Sewage Disposal
   Chapter 20..... Solid Waste
   Chapter 21..... Streets and Sidewalks
   Chapter 24..... Taxation, Special
   Chapter 27..... Zoning
Appendix:
   C..... Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
   D..... Plan Approval
   E..... Public Property
   F..... Sewers
   G..... Streets and Sidewalks
   H..... Water
   I..... Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Key to the Disposition of All Ordinances
The Appendix of the volume lists, by subject matter, in chronological order,
the titles (or an abstract of title) of enactments of special nature or of
historical interest, for the complete text of which the official records of the
Township shall be authoritative.
Section 2. Citation and Effective Date. The codification referred to in section
1 of this ordinance shall be known and cited officially as the "Township of
South Annville Code of Ordinances", and all future ordinances shall make
reference thereto. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication of notice of final enactment as required by law.
Section 3. Saving Clause. The provisions of the Township1s Code of Ordinances,
so far as they are the same as those ordinances and regulations in force
immediately prior to the adoption of said Code, are intended as a continuation
of such ordinances and regulations and not as a new enactment. The provisions
of the Township's Code of Ordinances shall not affect any suit or prosecution
pending or to be instituted to enforce any of the prior ordinances or
regulations.
Section 4. Consolidation, Codification and Revision. As a necessary part of
codification, the following provisions are hereby consolidated and revised as
indicated:
   A.   Consolidations
      Chapter, Section    Subject       Ordinance No.
      15, complete   Motor Vehicles; Traffic, Parking, etc.   7/11/1981
   B.   Revisions
      Chapter, Section   Subject       Ordinance No.
      1, §201    Creation of Planning Commission    10/7/1955
      6, §§101-102    Disorderly Conduct       6/4/1962
      24, §§201-204    Per Capita Tax      3/7/1958
Section 5. New Enactments, Amendments and Repeals. As a necessary part of
codification, the following ordinances are hereby enacted, amended and repealed
as summarized by short title:
   A.   New Enactments
      Chapter, Section   Short Title
      1, §§401-403   Regulation of Firemen's Relief Association
      15, complete   Motor Vehicles; Traffic, Parking and related regulations
   B.   Amendments
      Chapter, Section   Short Title   Ordinance No.
      8, §§101-122   Flood Plains   7/12/1986
      14, §§102, 103   Motor Home and Trailer Parks   8/9/1971
      27, §§1601-1650   Signs   7/12/1986
   C.   Repeals
      Ord. No.   Short Title
      11/2/1983   Sale and distribution of drug paraphernalia
      11/8/1980
      (Art. 12) Flood Plain Districts
      2/7/1969   Compensation of Tax Collector
      3/7/1958   Per Capita Tax
      Ch. 27,
      §§1601-1606 Signs
Section 6. Procedural Changes. The following minor procedural changes have been
made to existing Township ordinances:
   A.   grammatical and spelling errors have been corrected where necessary;
   B.   minor changes have been made to correct obsolete terms and usages;
   C.   the penalty sections have been revised where necessary to comply with
the Crimes Code or the Motor Vehicle Code.
Section 7. Amending the Code of Ordinances. The procedure for amending the Code
of Ordinances shall include the citation of the Chapter, Fart, Section and
Subsection to be amended, revised, repealed or added as follows:
   A.   Amendment or Revision - "Chapter _, Part _, Section_, Subsection _ is
hereby amended [revised] to read as follows..."
   B.   Additions - "Chapter _, Part _, Section _, Subsection _ is hereby
amended by the addition of the following..."
   C.   Repeal - "Chapter _, Part _, Section _- , Subsection _ is hereby
repealed in its entirety."
Section 8. Responsibility for Code of Ordinances. It shall be the
responsibility of the Township Secretary to maintain an up-to-date certified
copy of the code of ordinances. This copy shall be the official copy of the
Township's Code of Ordinances and shall be available for public inspection.
Section 9. Penalties. It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter, or
tamper with the code of ordinances in any manner which will intentionally
misrepresent the laws of the Township. Whosoever shall violate this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00); and/or to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed ninety (90) days.
Section 10. Severability of Parts of Codification. It is hereby declared to be
the intention of Board of Supervisors that the chapters, parts, sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this codification are severable.
If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is declared
unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid by the judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining chapters, parts, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
of this codification.
ENACTED AND ORDAINED this 9th day of August , 1986
TOWNSHIP OF SOUTH ANNVILLE
By:
/s/ Frank F. Yeager
Chairman, Board of Supervisors
ATTEST:
/s/ Donald H. Umberger
Secretary
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
Part 1
Township Officials
   §
101.   Annual Compensation for Members of Board of Supervisors
   §
102.   Compensation for Members of Board of Supervisors Who Assumed Office
Prior to January 1, 2014
   §
103.   Compensation for Other Duties
Part 2
Commissions
   §
201.   Creation of Planning Commission
Part 3
Municipal Authority
   §
301.   Intention to Organize
   §
302.   Execution of Articles
   §
303.   Notice Published
   §
304.   Filed With Secretary of Commonwealth
   §
305.   Sewage System Construction
   §
306.   Appointment of Members
Part 4
Firemen's Relief Association
   §
401.   Recognition of Firemen's Relief Association
   §
402.   Certification to Auditor General
   §
403.   Annual Appropriation
Part 5
Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency
   §
501.   Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency
Part 1
Township Officials
§ 101. Annual Compensation for Members of Board of Supervisors.
Each Supervisor of South Annville Township taking office by election or
appoint-ment after January 1, 2014, shall receive compensation for attending
duly advertised meetings or executive sessions of the Board of Supervisors and
performing other duties as a member of the Board of Supervisors at the rate of
one thousand eight hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per annum, payable
in quarterly installments.
(Ord. 8-14-13-2, 8/14/2013, § 1)
§ 102. Compensation for Members of Board of Supervisors Who Assumed Office
Prior to January 1, 2014.
Members of the Board of Supervisors whose terms of office commenced prior to
January 1, 2014, shall receive compensation in accordance with Ord. 8/9/1986 of
the Township.
(Ord. 8-14-13-2, 8/14/2013, § 2)
§ 103. Compensation for Other Duties.
The salary to be paid each Supervisor pursuant to this Part is considered
compensation for services rendered by the Supervisor for the duties imposed by
law on Supervisors of Second Class Townships. Should a Supervisor perform
services for the Township while acting as Secretary, Treasurer, Roadmaster or
laborer, the Supervisor shall be entitled to such additional compensation as is
determined by the Township Auditors. However, no Supervisor shall receive
compensation as Secretary, Treasurer, or Roadmaster for time he/she or she
spends attending a meeting of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 8-14-13-2, 8/14/2013, § 3)
Part 2
Commissions
§ 201. Creation of Planning Commission.
A Township Planning Commis-sion, to be composed of five (5) members, appointed
as provided by law (P.S. 53 § 10202), is hereby created in and for the Township
of South Annville. The Planning Commission shall perform all duties and may
exer-cise all powers conferred by law upon Township planning agencies;
provided, the Planning Commission previously created in and for the said
Township shall constitute the tenure of any of the members thereof, but any and
all vacancies in the said Commission, hereafter occurring, shall be filled in
the manner and for the term provided in the law governing Township planning
commissions in effect at the time of the happening of the said vacancy.
(Ord. 10/7/1955; as revised by Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 3
Municipal Authorities
§ 301. Intention to Organize.
The Supervisors of the Township of South Annville, County of Lebanon and
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, hereby signify their intention to organize a
municipality authority under the "Municipality Authorities Act of 1945", as
amended.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 1)
§ 302. Execution of Articles.
The Supervisors of the Township of South Annville are hereby authorized and
directed to execute on behalf of said Township Articles of Incorporation for
such an authority in substantially the following form:
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
In compliance with the requirements of the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, known
as the "Municipality Authorities Act of 1945", as amended, the Supervisors of
the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania desiring to
incorporate an Authority thereunder, do hereby certify:
   1.   The name of the Authority is SOUTH ANNVILLE TOWNSHIP, LEBANON COUNTY,
AUTHORITY.
   2.   The Authority is formed under the provisions of the "Munici-pality
Authorities Act of 1945", as amended.
   3.   No other Authority organized under the "Municipality Authori-ties Act
of 1945", as amended, or under the Act of June 28, 1935, P.L. 463, as amended,
is in existence in and for the incorporating municipality, the Township of
South Annville.
   4.   The name of the incorporating municipality is the Township of South
Annville.
   5.   The name and addresses of the Supervisors of the Township of South
Annville, constituting its municipal authorities, are as follows:
 
NAME                          ADDRESS
J. Harold Heagy, Chairman     R.D. #4, Lebanon, Pa. 17042
Frank Yeager                  Ridge Road, Annville, Pa. 17003
Donald U. Umberger, Secretary R.D #4, Lebanon, Pa. 17042
 
   6.   The names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of the Municipal Authority to be formed hereby are as follows:
 
NAME                   ADDRESS                       TERM
Frederick J. Zimmerman R.D. #4, Lebanon, Pa. 17042   1 year
David J. Wentling      R.D. # 4, Annville, Pa. 17003 2 years
Edward J. Bernardo     R.D. #1, Annville, Pa. 17003  3 years
Harry W. Schaffer      R.D. #4, Lebanon, Pa. 17042   4 years
G. Harold Bucher       R.D. #1, Annville, Pa. 17003  5 years
 
All being citizens of the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County,
Pennsylvania.
   7.   The proofs of publication required by the Municipality Authorities Act
of 1945, as amended, are submitted herewith.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 2)
§ 303. Notice Published.
The Secretary of the Township of South Annville is hereby directed to cause a
notice of this Part to be published as required by Section 3 of the
Municipality Authorities Act of 1945, as amended.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 3)
§ 304. Filed With Secretary of Commonwealth.
The Supervisors of the Township of South Annville are hereby directed to file
the above Articles of Incorporation, together with the necessary proofs of
publication, with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and to do all other acts
and things necessary or appropriate to effect the incorporation of South
Annville Township, Lebanon County, Authority.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 4)
§ 305. Sewage System Construction.
The initial project to be undertaken by the Authority is the financing and
construction of a sewage collection system, and negotiations with the Town and
Township of Annville or the Annville Township Authority for treatment and
disposal of South Annville Township sewage.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 5)
§ 306. Appointment of Members.
The persons named, and the terms of office set forth in the Sixth Article of
the Articles of Incorporation, the execution of which is authorized and
directed by §
302 hereof, are hereby appointed as the first members of the Board of the
Authority, and their terms of office shall commence on the date of appointment
and shall be computed from January 1, 1977.
(Ord. of 6/7/1976, § 6)
Part 4
Firemen's Relief Association
§ 401. Recognition of Firemen's Relief Association.
   1.   The following association is hereby recognized as actively engaged in
providing fire protection and/or emergency services in the Township of South
Annville.
      Union Hose Fire Company in Annville, Pennsylvania
      The above named association has been formed for the benefit of its
members and their families in case of death, sickness, temporary or perma-nent
disability or accident suffered in the line of duty.
   2.   The above named Association of the Township is designated the proper
association to receive such funds as are due and payable to the Township
Treasurer by the Treasurer of the State of Pennsylvania from the tax on
premiums from foreign fire insurance companies.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 402. Certification to Auditor General.
The Board of Supervisors shall annually certify to the Auditor General of the
Commonwealth, the name of the active associations and the percentage of service
they contri-bute to the protection of the Township. Such certification shall be
on forms prescribed by the Auditor General.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 403. Annual Appropriation.
There is annually appropriated from the Township Treasury all such sums of
money that may hereafter be paid into the Township Treasury by the Treasurer of
the State of Pennsylvania on account of taxes paid on premiums of foreign fire
insurance companies in pursuance of 1984 Act of December 18, No. 205, §§ 701 et
seq. as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General
Assembly of Pennsylvania. Such monies received by the Township Treasurer from
the State Treasurer shall be distributed to the duly recognized association
within sixty (60) days of receipt. The funds shall be distributed on the basis
of the percentage of service established in the certification to the Auditor
General and with other provisions of the Act.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 5
Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency
§ 501. Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency.
   1.   The caption of and recitals 1
to this Part as set forth above are incorporated herein by reference.
   2.   This Municipality shall join with Palmyra Borough and South Londonderry
Township in accordance with the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Act
by entering into the intermunicipal agreement which is adopted by reference
with the same effect as if it had been set out verbatim in this subsection and
a copy of which shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting at which this
Part was enacted.
   3.   This Municipality is authorized to enter into the intermunicipal
agreement for the purposes contained therein. This action is to be taken by the
officials or employees of the Municipality designated for this purpose,
pursuant to general or specific instructions issued by its governing body.
   4.   As required by the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act the following
matters are specifically found and determined:
      A.   The conditions of the agreement are set forth in the inter-municipal
agreement referred to in subsection .2.
      B.   This Municipality's participation in the Western Lebanon County
Regional Emergency Management Agency shall be for a period of five (5) years,
beginning on ____, 2011, and may will be extended indefinitely until notice of
termination is given as set forth in the intermunicipal agreement referred to
in subsection .2.
      C.   The purpose and objectives of the intermunicipal agreement are to
enter into an intergovernmental contract to form the Western Lebanon County
Regional Emergency Management Agency for the purpose of sharing costs to
provide emergency planning.
      D.   Each Municipality will annually contribute from its general fund for
the operation of the Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management
Agency in amounts established as set forth in the inter-municipal agreement
referred to in subsection .2.
      E.   A new entity, the Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency
Management Agency, shall be formed.
      F.   All property, real or personal, shall be acquired, managed or
disposed of by the Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency.
      G.   The Western Lebanon County Regional Emergency Management Agency
shall not have employees and shall not have the power to enter into contracts
for policies of insurance or other employee benefits unless the Municipalities
shall amend the intermunicipal agreement to authorize such actions.
   5.   The governing body of this Municipality is authorized to take such
other action as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Part in
connection with the implementation of the intermunicipal agreement.
   6.   This Municipality reserves the right to modify, supplement or amend the
intermunicipal agreement from time to time by resolution or ordinance.
   7.   All other intergovernmental agreements between or among this
Municipality and any of the other Municipalities or among this Municipality and
any of the other municipalities and third parties presently existing are hereby
ratified and confirmed to the extent such agreements are not inconsistent with
the intermunicipal agreement authorized herein.
   8.   This Part shall take effect and be in force after its enactment by the
Board of Supervisors of the Township of South Annville at the earliest date
permitted by law.
(Ord. 4-13-11, 4/13/2011, §§ 1-7, 9)
 
Notes
  Editor's Note: The recitals of Ord. 4-13-11 are as follows:
  "WHEREAS, Palmyra Borough, South Annville Township and South Londonderry
  Township recognize that it is beneficial for the interests of the taxpayers
  of the Borough and the Townships (collectively the "Municipalities" and
  individually a "Municipality") to establish a regional emergency management
  agency in lieu of maintaining individual emergency management agencies; and
  "WHEREAS, the Municipalities recognize that the coordination of
  administrative services would enable each Municipality to minimize the costs
1 of a regional emergency services program; and
  "WHEREAS, the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 53 Pa.C.S. § 2301 et seq.,
  permits municipalities to enter into agreements to cooperate in the
  performance of their respective functions, powers or responsibil-ities; and
  "WHEREAS, the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act provides that any joint
  cooperation agreement shall be deemed in force as to any munici-pality when
  the same has been adopted by ordinance by all cooperating municipalities; and
  "WHEREAS, Palmyra Borough, South Annville Township and South Londonderry
  Township desire to enact such an ordinance."
  Page Added 12/14/2011 - 10.1 -
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDINGS
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 5
CODE ENFORCEMENT
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Intent
   §
103.   Adoption of Pennsylvania Construction Code
   §
104.   Scope
   §
105.   Administration and Enforcement
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
§ 101. Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "South Annville Township
Construction Code Ordinance," and may be referred to herein as the "Code."
(Ord. 6-28-04-1, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 102. Intent.
The purpose of this Part is to promote the general health, safety and welfare
of the residents of South Annville Township, to conform to the requirements of
the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code Act, to comply with the regulations
issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry within the
Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code (UCC), including all standards, codes
and other information incorporated herein and to adopt administrative and
enforcement regulations.
(Ord. 6-28-04-1, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 103. Adoption of Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code.
South Annville Township (hereinafter sometimes referred to as Municipality)
hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code, as contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 401-405, and amendments
thereto, and declares this to be the South Annville Township Construction Code
Ordinance, referred to herein as the "Code."
(Ord. 6-28-04-1, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 104. Scope.
The Code and regulations shall control all matters concerning the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, location, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings and structures and shall apply to existing or
proposed structures, unless exempted by the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction
Code (UCC). All other Ordinances of the Municipality which are more stringent
shall apply. It shall be the joint responsibility of the owner, lessee, if any,
and the contractor to obtain the required Code permit before performing any
work.
(Ord. 6-28-04-1, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 105. Administration and Enforcement.
In accordance with and in addition to the administrative provisions of the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act 45 of 1999, the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code (UCC) and the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry
Regulations, the following administrative and enforcement requirements shall be
part of the Code:
   A.   Administration.
      1.   The administration and enforcement of the Code and Pennsylvania
Department of Labor and Industry Regulations is hereby delegated to the County
of Lebanon by virtue of a separate contract authorizing the Building Code
Official of the Lebanon County Planning Department to administer and enforce
the Code on behalf of the Municipality. For purposes of this Part, the term
"Building Code Official" shall include all employees and contracted agents of
the Lebanon County Planning Department who are Building Code Officials, Code
Administrators, Construction Code Officials, Current Code Administrators or
individuals similarly licensed and/or certified by the State of Pennsylvania to
perform code work.
      2.   The Building Code Official shall have all the powers and duties set
forth in the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code (UCC), this Part, the
contract with the County of Lebanon and the Pennsylvania Department of Labor
and Industry Regulations. Specifically, in addition to such other powers and
duties provided, the Building Code Official shall be authorized to receive Code
permit applications; issue or deny Code permits; collect fees for permits, plan
reviews and inspections; make inspections and require such work to be performed
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Code; issue certificates
of occupancy; and enter buildings and premises within normal business hours or
at other times with permission of the owner or contractor. Additionally, the
Building Code Official may perform Code enforcement activities including, but
not limited to, issuance of notices of violation, stop work orders, vacate
orders or other legal action necessary to enforce, restrain, abate or correct
violations of the Code.
      3.   The application for a Code permit shall be on forms provided by the
Building Code Official. At the time of Code permit application and prior to
issuance of a Code permit, the applicant shall submit to the Building Code
Official two (2) sets of construction documents with plans and specifications,
all required fees, and a copy of any required zoning permit. No Code permit
application shall be deemed complete without the required construction plans,
fees, zoning permit copy and other required approvals. Additionally, the
applicant shall pay all outstanding permit and inspection fees required during
the course of construction prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and
occupancy.
      4.   The application, plan review, permit and inspection fees shall be
paid by each applicant in accordance with the fee schedule established by
Resolution of this Municipality and maintained by the Building Code Official.
      5.   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of this
Municipality in conformity with the requirements of the Code. Where two or more
municipalities decide to establish a joint Board of Appeals, said Board of
Appeals shall be established through joint action of the participating
municipalities, by intermunicipal agreement in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Act.
   B.   Violations and Penalties.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, demolish, use or occupy any building,
structure or equipment regulated by this Code, or to permit or cause same to be
done, in conflict with or in violation of this Code, and in violation of the
regulations adopted hereunder.
      2.   The Building Code Official may serve and enforce a notice of
violation, stop work order, vacate order or other lawful enforcement notice on
any person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension,
repair, removal, demolition, use or occupy a building, structure or equipment
in violation of the provisions of this Code or any permit issued under the
provisions of this Code.
      3.   If the Building Code Official has served a notice of violation and
the notice of violation is not complied with by the deadline prescribed,
summary enforcement proceedings may be initiated by the Building Code Official
against the violator. Additionally, appropriate proceedings at law or in equity
may be instituted by this Municipality and/or the Building Code Official to
restrain, correct or abate a violation, to prevent unlawful construction or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
      4.   Any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or the
regulations adopted hereunder or who shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct, alter, extend, repair,
remove, demolish, use or occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of, any
building, structure or equipment regulated by this Code in violation of the
provisions of this Code or of an approved plan or of a directive of the
Building Code Official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision
of this Code or who shall permit the use, occupancy, erection, construction,
alteration, extension, removal, demolition or repair of the building, structure
or equipment in violation thereof, shall, upon being found guilty in a summary
enforcement proceeding commenced by this Municipality or its appointed Building
Code Official, pay a penalty of not less than four hundred ($400.00) dollars
and not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars for each violation plus all
costs of prosecution, which fines or penalties may be collected as provided by
law. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense,
and each Section of the Code which is violated shall be deemed a separate
offense. The Building Code Official may request the Police Department to make
arrests for any offense against the Code or orders of the Building Code
Official affecting the immediate safety of the public.
(Ord. 6-28-04-1, 6/28/2004, § 1)
CHAPTER 6
CONDUCT
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
   §
101.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited
   §
102.   Penalty for Disorderly Conduct
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
§ 101. Disorderly Conduct Prohibited.
Disorderly conduct, as defined in the Pa. Crime Code of 1972 [18 CP S.A. §
5503], is hereby prohibited within the Township of South Annville. A person is
guilty of disorderly conduct if they:
      1.   engage in fighting or in threatening, violent or tumultuous
behavior;
      2.   make unreasonable noise;
      3.   use obscene language, or makes an obscene gesture; or
      4.   create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
Provided: as used in this section, the word public means affecting or likely to
affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group has
access. Among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks, transport
facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or
amusement, any neighborhood, or any premises which are open to the public.
(Ord. 4/6/1962; as revised by Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 102. Penalty for Disorderly Conduct.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 4/6/1962; as revised by Ord. 8/9/1986)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE PROTECTION
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 8
FLOOD PLAINS
(See
Chapter 27, Zoning, Part 11)
CHAPTER 9
GRADING AND EXCAVATION
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 10
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Editor's Note: This material has been provided in PDF. Click the link below to
view this material:
Appendix_10-A   Outdoor_Wood_Fired-Boilers_Rules_and_Regulations_of_the
Environmental_Quality_Board
[40 Pa.B. 5571, 10/2/2010]
CHAPTER 11
HOUSING
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 12
LIBRARIES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 13
LICENSES, PERMITS AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Part 1
Peddlers
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Permit Required
   §
103.   Permit Application; Nontransferable
   §
104.   Permit Fees
   §
105.   Permit Issuance, Exhibit; Compliance With Permit
   §
106.   Prohibited Times
   §
107.   Loud Noises Prohibited
   §
108.   Parking Regulations; Littering
   §
109.   Fixed Location on Streets, Etc., Prohibited
   §
110.   Permit Suspension
   §
111.   Penalties
Part 2
Gambling
   §
201.   Mini-casinos Prohibited
Part 1
Peddlers
§ 101. Definitions.
PEDDLER - as used in this Part, means any person who shall engage in peddling,
as hereinabove defined.
PEDDLING - as used in this Part, means engaging in peddling, canvas-sing,
soliciting or taking of orders, either by sample or otherwise, for any goods,
wares or merchandise, upon any of the streets or sidewalks or from house to
house within the Township. However, the word "peddling" shall not apply:
   A.   To farmers selling their own produce;
   B.   To the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, donated by the owners
thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charit-able or
philanthropic purpose; or
   C.   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products or milk products.
PERSON - as used in this Part, means any natural person, association,
partnership, firm or corporation.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 1)
§ 102. Permit Required.
      1.   No person shall engage in peddling in the Township without first
having taken out a permit as herein provided.
      2.   The foregoing provision notwithstanding, a permit shall not be
required for peddlers who are agents of a business which has its bona fide
permanent office located within the boundaries of Lebanon County.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 2)
§ 103. Permit Application; Nontransferable.
Every person desiring to engage in peddling in the Township shall first make
application to the Chief of Police of South Annville Township for a permit.
Upon such appli-cation, such person shall give his name; address; his previous
criminal record, if any; the name of the person for whom he works, if any; the
type of goods, wares and merchandise he wishes to peddle; the length of time
for which he wishes to have a permit; the type of vehicle he uses, if any; the
number of helpers he has. Where a person makes application for himself and one
or more helpers, all applicable personal information specified above shall be
given for each helper, and an individual permit shall be required for each
helper. No permit issued under this Part shall be transferable from one person
to another.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 3)
§ 104. Permit Fees.
No permit shall be issued under this Part until the proper fee, as follows,
shall be paid to the South Annville Township, which shall be for the use of the
Township.
   A.   Foot peddler: five dollars ($5.00) per day; twenty dollars ($20.00) per
month.
   B.   Peddler operating from a horse-drawn or motor vehicle: five dollars
($5.00) per day; twenty dollars ($20.00) per month.
   C.   Each and every additional peddler employed by a foot peddler or peddler
operating from a horse-drawn or motor vehicle: five dollars ($5.00) per day;
and twenty dollars ($20.00) per month.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 4)
§ 105. Permit Issuance, Exhibit; Compliance With Permit.
Upon making application therefor and paying the proper fee, as herein
specified, a permit shall be issued to every peddler. Such permit shall contain
the information required to be given upon the application therefor. Every
peddler shall, at all times when engaged in peddling in the Township, carry
such permit upon his person, and shall exhibit such permit, upon request, to
all police officers, Township officials and citizens. No peddler shall engage
in selling any product not mentioned upon such permit, nor shall any person
having a foot peddler's permit operate from or with any horse-drawn or motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 5)
§ 106. Prohibited Times.
No person with a permit as a peddler under this Part shall engage in peddling
at any time of any day of the week before 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 6)
§ 107. Loud Noises Prohibited.
No person, permitted as a peddler under this Part, shall hawk or cry his wares
upon any of the streets or sidewalks of the Township, nor shall he use any loud
speaker or horn or any other device for announcing his presence by which the
public is annoyed.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 7)
§ 108. Parking Regulations; Littering.
No person, licensed as a peddler under this Part, shall park any vehicle upon
any of the streets or alleys of the Township in order to sort, rearrange or
clean any of his goods, wares or merchandise; nor may any such person place or
deposit any refuse upon any of such streets or alleys; nor may any such person
maintain or keep a street or curbstone market by parking any vehicle upon any
street or alley in the Township for longer than necessary in order to sell
there-from to persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 8)
§ 109. Fixed Location on Streets, Etc., Prohibited.
No person, licensed as a peddler under this Part, shall occupy any fixed
location upon any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the Township for the
purpose of peddling, with or without any stand or counter. (Ord. 7/11/1983, §
9)
§ 110. Permit Suspension.
The Chief of Police or other police officer of South Annville Township is
hereby authorized to suspend any permit issued under this Part when he deems
such suspension to be beneficial to the public health, safety or morals, or for
violation of any of the provi-sions of this Part, or for giving false
information upon any application for a permit hereunder.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 10)
§ 111. Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00); and/or to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed ninety (90) days. Every day that a violation of this Part continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7/11/1983, § 11; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 2
Gambling
§ 201.   Mini-casinos Prohibited.
The Board of Supervisors of the Township of South Annville prohibits the
location and operation of a Category 4 licensed facility within the boundaries
of South Annville Township.
(Ord. 12-13-17, 12/13/2017)
CHAPTER 14
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Part 1
Requirements for Operation of Mobile Home Parks
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Permits
   §
103.   Licenses
   §
104.   Inspections
   §
105.   Notices, Hearings, and Orders
   §
106.   Environmental, Density, Lot and Access Requirements
   §
107.   Water Supply
   §
108.   Sewage Disposal
   §
109.   Electrical Distribution System
   §
110.   Service Buildings and Facilities
   §
111.   Refuse Handling
   §
112.   Insect and Rodent Control
   §
113.   Fuel Supply and Storage
   §
114.   Fire Protection
   §
115.   Miscellaneous Requirements
   §
116.   Penalties
Part 1
Requirements for Operation of Mobile Home Parks
§ 101. Definitions.
BOARD - the Board of Supervisors of South Annville Township, or its authorized
representative.
CAMP - a travel trailer camp as herein defined.
CUL-DE-SAC - a short dead-end street terminating in a vehicular turn-around
area.
INTERNAL STREET - a street in a mobile home park or travel trailer camp
privately owned, constructed, and maintained, which functions only to provide
direct access to individual mobile home lots or travel trailer spaces; and does
not connect directly to and provide access to or from a public street adjacent
to the mobile home park or travel trailer camp.
LICENSE - allowing a person trailer camp under written document issued by the
Board of Supervisors to operate and maintain a mobile home park or travel the
provisions of this Chapter.
MOBILE HOME - a dwelling unit manufactured in one complete section; designed
for long-term occupancy; containing sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet; a
tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical
connections provided for attachment to outside systems; and designed to be
transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on flatbed or other
trailers, arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations.
MOBILE HOME LOT - a parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home
and the exclusive use of its occupants.
MOBILE HOME PARK - a parcel of land which has been planned and im­ proved for
the placement of mobile homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes and
for non-transient use.
MOBILE HOME STAND - what part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of a mobile home and its appurtenant structures or additions.
PARK - a mobile home park as herein defined.
PERMIT - a written document issued by the Board of Supervisors permit­ ting the
construction, alteration and extension of a mobile home park under the
provisions of this Chapter.
PERSON - any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
PLANNING COMMISSION - the Planning Commission of South Annville Township.
SANITARY SERVICE BUILDING - a structure housing toilet, lavatory and such other
facilities as may be required by this Chapter.
SEWER CONNECTION - the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the chain outlet of a mobile home or travel trailer to the
inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the
mobile home park or travel trailer camp.
SEWER RISER PIPE - that portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot or travel
trailer space.
TOWNSHIP - South Annville Township, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
TRAVEL TRAILER - a vehicular portable structure built on a chassis designed as
a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, vacation, and other short-term
uses and having a body width not exceeding eight feet (8') and a body length
not exceeding thirty-two feet (32').
TRAVEL UNIT - a travel mounted camper, motor home, pickup coach, auto, truck,
or bus adapted for vacation living; a folding tent camper; a tent, and other
similar devices used for temporary portable housing.
TRAVEL TRAILER CAMP - a parcel of land or part thereof occupied or designed for
occupancy by one (1) or more travel trailers or travel units.
TRAVEL TRAILER DEPENDENT - a trailer or travel unit which is dependent upon a
service building for toilet and lavatory facilities.
TRAVEL TRAILER, INDEPENDENT a trailer or travel unit which can operate
independent of connections to sewer, water and electric systems. It contains a
waterflushed toilet, lavatory, shower and kitchen sink, all of which are
connected to water storage and sewage holding tanks located within the trailer.
TRAILER SPACE - a parcel of land in a travel trailer camp for the placement of
a single trailer or travel unit and the exclusive use of its occupants.
TRAILER STAND - that part of an individual trailer space which has been
reserved for the placement of a single trailer or travel unit and its accessory
structures.
WATER CONNECTION - the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home, travel trailer or travel unit.
WATER RISER PIPE - that portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park or travel trailer camp which extends vertically to the ground
elevation and terminates at a designated point at each mobile home lot or
travel trailer space.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 1)
§ 102. Permits.
   1.   Permits Required - It shall be unlawful for any person to main­ tain,
construct, alter or extend any mobile home park or any travel trailer camp
within the limits of the Township unless he holds a valid written permit issued
by the Township of South Annville.
   2.   Application to Township - The applicant shall submit an applica­ tion
to the Township, using a form furnished by the Township, for a permit to
operate a mobile horne park or travel trailer camp in South Annville Township.
   3.   Fees - All applications to the Township shall be accompanied by the
payment of a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the Township.
   4.   Review of Application - Upon receipt by the Township of such
application, the application, plans and all other pertinent information
submitted shall be reviewed by the Township Planning Commission to determine
compliance with this Chapter. Within thirty (30) days, the Township Planning
Commission shall submit a report to the Board of Supervisors which includes
their finding, and recommendations. If a report is not received within thirty
(30) days, the Board of Supervisors shall proceed with their review and
processing of such application. When upon review of the application and report
of the Planning Commission the Board of Supervisors is satisfied that the
proposed plan meets the requirements of this Chapter a permit shall be issued.
   5.   Denial of Permit - Any person whose application for a permit under this
Chapter has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing one the
matter before the Board of Supervisors under the procedure provided by § 105 of
this Chapter.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 2; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 103. Licenses.
   l.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mobile horne park or
travel trailer court within the limits of the Township unless he holds a valid
license issued annually by the Board of Supervisors in the name of such person.
   2.   Original License - Application for original licenses shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant
as to the truth of the application, and by the deposit of a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) and shall contain: name and address of the applicant, the
location and legal description of the mobile horne park or travel trailer camp
and a site plan of the mobile horne park or travel trailer camp showing all
mobile horne and trailer lots, structures, roads, walkways, and other service
facilities.
   3.   Renewal of License - Application for renewals of licenses shall be made
in writing by the holders of the licenses, shall be accompanied by the deposit
of a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and shall contain any change in
the information submitted since the original license was issued or the latest
renewal granted.
   4.   Denial of License - Any person whose application for a license under
this Chapter has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Board of Supervisors under the procedure provided by § 105 of
this Chapter.
   5.   Transfer of License - Every person holding a license shall give notice
in writing to the Board of Supervisors within ten (10) days after having sold,
transferred, given away, leased, or otherwise disposed of any interest in or
control of any mobile home park or travel trailer camp. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of such mobile home park or travel trailer camp. Upon application in
writing for transfer of the license, deposit of a fee of seventy-five dollars
($75.00), shall be transferred if the mobile home park or travel trailer camp
is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 3; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 104. Inspections.
   1.   Authorization - The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized and
directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory
compliance with this Chapter.
   2.   Inspection of Premises - The Board of Supervisors shall have the power
to enter at reasonable times upon any private or public property for the
purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement
of this Chapter.
   3.   Inspection of Register - The Board of Supervisors shall have the power
to inspect the register containing a record of all residents of the mobile home
park or travel trailer camp.
   4.   Access to Premises for Repair or Alteration - It shall be the duty of
every occupant of a mobile home park or travel trailer camp to give the owner
thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such mobile home park or
travel trailer camp or its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
this Chapter.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 4)
§ 105. Notices, Hearings and Orders.
   1.   Notice of Violation -Whenever the Board of Supervisors determines that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this Chapter, or regulations issued hereunder the Board of
Supervisors shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom
the permit or license was issued as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall
(a)be in writing; (b) include a statement of the reasons for its issuance; (c)
allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires; (d) be
served upon the owner, or his agent as the case may require provided: that such
notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served upon such owner or
agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail to his last known
address, or when he has been served with such notice by any method authorized
or required by the laws of this state; (e) contain an outline of remedial
action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter. At the end of the time period stipulated, the Board of Supervisors
shall reinspect such mobile home park or travel trailer camp and if such
violations have not been corrected the Board shall suspend the license and give
notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license is
issued.
Upon receipt of notice of such suspension such person shall cease operation of
such mobile home park or travel trailer camp except as provided in § 105(2).
   2.   Hearings - Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this Chapter may request
and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of Supervisors,
provided: that such person shall file in the office of the Board of Supervisors
a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement
of the grounds therefor within ten (10) days after the day the notice was
served. The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the
notice and of the suspension except in the case of an order issued under § 105
(5). Upon receipt of such petition, the Board of Supervisors shall set a time
and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof
at such hearing; the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and
to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be
commenced not later than ten (10) days after the day on which the petition was
filed, provided: that upon application of the petitioner the Board of
Supervisors may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond
such ten (10) day period when in the Board's judgement the petitioner has
submitted good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   3.   Issuance of Order - After such hearing the Board of Supervisors shall
make findings as to compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and
regulations issued hereunder and shall issue an order in writing, affirming,
modifying or withdrawing the notice which shall be served as provided in § 105
(1)D. Upon failure to comply with any order affirming or modifying a notice,
the license of the mobile home park or travel trailer camp affected by the
order shall be forthwith revoked.
   4.   Records - The proceedings at such a hearing including the findings and
decision of the Board of Supervisors and together with a copy of every notice
and order related thereto shall be entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the Board of Supervisors but any transcript of the proceedings which
may have been made, need not be transcribed, unless judicial review of the
decision is sought as provided by this section. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Board of Supervisors may seek relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   5.   Emergencies - Whenever the Board of Supervisors finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the Board
may without, notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as the Board may deem
necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or
license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Board of Supervisors
shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of §§ 105(3)
and 105(4) shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 5)
§ 106. Environmental, Density, Lot and Access Requirements.
   1.   General Requirements for Mobile Home Parks and Travel Trailer Camps -
      A.   Site Location - The location of all mobile home parks and travel
trailer camps shall comply with the following minimum require­ ments and shall
be:
         (1)   Free from adverse influence by swamps, marshes, garbage or
rubbish disposal areas or other potential breeding places for insects or
rodents.
         (2)   Not subject to flooding.
         (3)   Not subject to any hazard or nuisance, such as exces­ sive
noise, vibration, smoke, toxic matter, radiation, heat, odor or glare.
      B.   Site Drainage Requirements -
         (1)   The ground surface in all parts of every park or camp shall be
graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe efficient manner.
         (2)    Surface water collectors and other bodies of standing water
capable of breeding mosquitoes and other insects shall be eliminated or
controlled in a manner approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
         (3)   Waste water from any plumbing fixture or sanitary sewer line
shall not be deposited upon the ground surface in any part of a mobile home
park or travel trailer camp.
      C.   Soil and Ground Cover Requirements -
         (1)   Exposed ground surfacing in all parts of every park or camp
shall be paved, or covered with stone screenings, or other solid material or
protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion
and the emanation of dust during dry weather.
         (2)   Park or camp grounds shall be maintained free of vegetative
growth which is poisonous or insects, or other pests harmful to man.
      D.   Non-residential Uses - which may harbor rodents,
         (1)    No part of any park or camp shall be used for non­ resident
purposes, except such uses as are required for the direct servicing and well
being of park or camp residents and for the management and maintenance of the
park or camp.
         (2)   Such non-residential uses and any related parking facilities
shall not occupy more than ten percent (10%) of the area of the park or camp,
shall subordinate to the residential use and character, shall be located and
designed and intended to serve frequent trade of service needs of persons
residing in the park or camp, and shall present no visible evidence of their
non-residential character from any portion of any residential area outside of
the park or camp.
      E.   Recreation Areas -
         (1)    Recreation areas and facilities shall be provided to meet the
anticipated needs of the clientele the park or camp is designed to serve.
         (2)   Not less than eight percent (8%) of the gross site area shall be
devoted to recreational facilities including space for community buildings and
community use facilities such as guest parking, adult recreation and child play
areas, swimming pools utilities and drying yards.
   2.   Specific Requirements for Mobile Home Parks -
      A.   Minimum Area and Width of Tract -
         (1)   A minimum tract area of ten (10) acres shall be required for any
mobile home park.
         (2)    For portions of the tract used for general vehicular entrances
and exits only (other than alleys and service entrances) a minimum width of
fifty feet (50') is required, for por­ tions containing mobile home stands and
buildings open generally to occupants, a minimum width of one hundred feet
(100') is required. The tract shall comprise a single plot except where the
site is divided by public streets or alleys or where the total property
includes separate parcels for necessary utility plants with permanent rights-
of-way and easements for connection and access or for other structures
necessary to the park, but not open generally to the occupants, provided that
all lands involved shall be so dimensioned and related as to facilitate
efficient design and management.
      B.   Maximum Density - The maximum density of any mobile home park shall
not exceed seven (7)mobile homes per gross acre.
      C.   Required Setbacks and Minimum Distances Between Mobile Homes -
         (1)   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least fifty feet (50'), provided that mobile
homes placed end to end shall have a clearance of at least twenty-five feet
(25') where opposing rear walls are staggered. Within a mobile home park
created before January 1, 2000, mobile homes shall be separated from each other
and from other buildings and structures by at least thirty (30) feet, provided
that mobile homes placed end to end shall have a clearance of at least fifteen
feet (15') where opposing rear walls are staggered. Any accessory structure
such as attached awnings, carports or individual storage facilities for
purposes of this separation requirement shall be considered part of the mobile
home.
         (2)   All mobile homes shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from
any park boundary line abutting upon a public street and at least twenty feet
(20') from other park property boundary lines.
         (3)   There shall be a minimum distance of twenty-five feet (25')
between an individual mobile home and adjoining pavement of a mobile home park
street or common parking area or other common area. In a mobile home park
established prior to January 1, 2000, there shall be a minimum distance of
fifteen feet (15') between and individual mobile home and adjoining pavement of
a mobile home park street or common parking area or other common area.
         (4)   The separations, setbacks and minimum distances mentioned herein
shall be maintained at all times without any encroachment therein.
      D.   Screening -
         (1)    Fences, free-standing walls or screen plantings shall be
provided where necessary for screening purposes. Specific views to be screened
include laundry, drying yards, garbage and trash collection stations, and non-
residential uses of adjacent properties.
         (2)   All fences and walls shall be located at least eighteen feet
(18') from the street centerlines and at least eighteen inches (18") from the
pavement edge of streets, driveways, parking spaces and walks.
      E.   Mobile Home Stands -
         (1)    A mobile home stand shall be provided for each mobile home. The
area of the mobile home stand shall be made of a hard and dense material which
shall be durable and well-drained under normal use and weather conditions and
provide an adequate foundation for the placement and tie-down of the mobile
home thereby securing the super-structure against uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning.
         (2)   The mobile home stand shall not have, shift, or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home due to frost action inadequate drainage
vibration or other forces acting on the super-structure.
         (3)   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchor and tie-
downs such as cast-in-place concrete "dead men" eyelets imbedded in concrete
foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowheads anchors, or other devices
securing the stability of the mobile home.
         (4)   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of
the mobile home stand and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile
strength of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds.
      F.   Park Street System-
         (1)    General Requirements - All mobile home parks shall be provided
with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads
to each mobile home lot. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to
topography.
         (2)   Access to Park - The entrance road connecting the park streets
with a public street or road shall have a minimum road pavement width of
thirty-five feet (35').
         (3)    Internal Streets Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width
to accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case, shall meet the following
minimum width requirements:
            Parking permitted on both sides - 36 feet
            Parking prohibited or limited to one side - 28 feet
            Cul-de-sac streets shall be limited in length to 60 feet and shall
be provided with a turn-around with a minimum outside diameter of 80 feet
         (4)   Street Construction and Design Standards -
            (a)    Pavement - All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard
and dense surface which shall be durable and well-drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes, and other hazards.
            (b)   Grades - Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to insure
adequate surface drainage, but shall be not more than eight percent (8%). Short
runs with a maximum grade of twelve percent (12%) may be permitted, provided
traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving; adequate leveling areas and
avoidance of lateral curves.
            (c)    Intersections - Within one hundred feet (100') of a
intersection of streets shall be approximately right angles.
               A distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be
maintained between centerlines of offset intersecting streets. Intersections of
more than two (2) streets at one point shall be avoided.
         (5)    Required Illumination of Park Street Systems - All parks shall
be furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaires placed
at such mounting heights as will provide a minimum level of illumination of one
foot (1') candle for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
      G.   Required Off-Street Parking Areas -
         (1)    Off-street parking areas shall be provided in all mobile home
parks for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be furnished
at the rate of at least 2 car spaces for each mobile home lot.
         (2)    Required car parking spaces shall be located for convenient
access to the mobile home stands. One space shall be located on each lot and
the remainder located in adjacent parking bays.
      H.   Walks -
         (1)   General Requirements - All parks shall be provided with safe,
convenient all season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended uses,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
         (2)    Common Walk System - A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of three and one-half feet (3').
         (3)   Individual Walks - All mobile home stands shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets, or to paved drive­ ways or parking spaces
connecting to a paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width
of two feet (2').
      I.   Skirts - Mobile homes shall be equipped with skirts of an approved
material and construction which will completely enclose the under carriage of
the structure.
      J.   Storage Structures - Storage structures on the mobile home lot shall
be of an approved material and construction and shall not exceed six feet (6')
in width, length and height.
   3.   Specific  Requirements for Travel Trailer Camps -
      A.   Minimum Area of Tract - A minimum tract area of five (5) acres shall
be required for any travel trailer camps.
      B.   Maximum Density - The travel trailer camp density shall not exceed
twenty-five (25) trailer spaces per acres of gross site areas.
      C.   Required Separation Between Trailers -
         (1)    Trailers shall be separated from each other and from other
structures by at least fifteen feet (15'). A minimum distance of fifteen feet
(15') shall also be maintained between travel trailers and trailer camps,
buildings and structures. Any accessory structure such as attached awnings,
carports, or individual storage facilities shall, for purpose of this separa
tion requirement, be considered to be part of the trailer.
         (2)    All travel trailers shall be located at least twenty­ five feet
(25') from any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or
highway and at least twenty feet (20') from other park property boundary lines.
         (3)   The separations mentioned herein shall at all times be
maintained without any encroachment therein.
      D.   Camp Street System -
         (1)   Location and Access - No trailer park shall be located except
with direct access to a paved roadway, and with appropriate frontage thereon to
permit appropriate design of entrances and exit. No entrance or exit from a
trailer park shall be through a residential area, nor require movement of
traffic from the park through a residential area.
         (2)    Design of Access to Park - Entrances and exits to travel
trailer camps shall have a minimum road pavement width of twenty-five feet
(25'). All traffic into or out of the park shall be through such entrances and
exits. No entrance or exit shall require a turn at an acute angle for vehicles
moving in the direction intended and radii of curbs and pavements at
intersections shall be such as to facilitate easy turning movements for
vehicles with trailer attached.
         (3)    Access to Spaces Each space should be directly accessible from
an approved internal street without the necessity for crossing any other space.
Generally, direct access to spaces from public streets should be discouraged.
For overnight spaces, drive-through layouts should be encouraged so that it is
not necessary either to back into the space or to back out of it.
         (4)    Internal Streets - The internal street system in camps shall be
privately owned, constructed and maintained, and shall be designed for safe and
convenient access to all spaces and to facilities for common use by park
occupants. Internal streets should be designed, constructed and maintained
according to the following specifications:
            (a)   Alignment and Gradients - Alignments and gradients shall be
properly adapted to topography, to safe movement of types of traffic
anticipated, and to satisfactory control of surface water and ground water.
            (b)   Surfacing and Maintenance - Internal streets shall provide a
sound all-weather driving surface, reasonably smooth and free from mud, dust or
standing surface water.
            (c)    Street Widths - Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width
to accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements.
               1)   Minor streets are hereby defined as less than five hundred
feet (500') in length and serving (a)with drive-through spaces, fifty (50) or
less if street is one-way, one hundred (100) or less if two-way or (b) where it
is necessary to back into or out of spaces, twenty-five (25) spaces or less if
street is one-way, fifty (50) or less if two-way.
               One-way, with no parking ten feet (10') width.
               One-way, with parking on one side only eighteen feet (18')
width.
               One-way, with parking on both sides twenty-six feet (26')
               Two-way, with no parking twenty feet (20') width
               Two-way, with parking on one side only twenty­eight feet (28')
               Two-way, with parking on both sides thirty-six feet (36')
               Collector streets (streets other than minor streets, as defined
above, serving up to and including two hundred spaces, and without limitation
on length):
               One or two-way, with no parking twenty-two feet (22')
               One or two-way with parking on one side only three feet (3')
width
               One or two-way, with parking on both sides thirty­eight feet
(38') width.
         (5)    Off-Street Parking and Maneuvering Space - Each travel trailer
camp shall provide sufficient parking and maneuvering space so that the parking
loading, or maneu­ vering of trailers incidental to parking shall not necessi­
tate the use of any public street, side-way or right-of-way or any private
grounds not part of the travel trailer camp.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 6; Amended by Ord. 12-9-20, 12/9/2020, § 1)
§ 107. Water Supply.
   1.   Requirements for Mobile Home Parks and Travel Trailer -
      A.   Water Supply System - An adequate, safe and potable supply of water
shall be provided for mobile homes, travel trailers, travel units, service
buildings, and other accessory facilities.
         (1)   Where a public water supply system of satisfactory quantity,
quality and pressure is available, connection shall be made thereto and its
supply shall be used exclusively.
         (2)   Where a satisfactory public water supply is not avail­ able, the
development of a private water supply system shall be approved by the
Pennsylvania Department of Health.
      B.   Individual Water Riser Pipes and Connection -
         (1)   Each mobile home stand and trailer stand shall be equipped with
a water riser pipe located within the confined area of the stand at a point
where the water connection will approxi­ mate a vertical position.
         (2)   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches (4") above
ground elevation. The pipe shall be at least three­ quarters of an inch (3/4")
and shall be capped when a mobile home or trailer does not occupy the lot.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 7)
§ 108. Sewage Disposal.
   1.   Sewage Disposal System - An adequate, and safe sewerage system shall be
provided in all mobile home parks and travel trailer camps for conveying and
disposing of all sewage.
      A.   Where an adequate public sewerage system is available, connection
shall be made thereto, and such system shall be used exclusively.
      B.   Where the sewer lines are not connected to a public sewer, all
proposed sewage disposal facilities shall be approved by the Pennsylvania
Department of Health.
   2.   Individual Sewer Connections - Each mobile home and trailer stand shall
be provided with at least a four inch (4") diameter sewer riser pipe extending
from the sewer lateral vertically to the ground elevation.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 8)
§ 109. Electrical Distribution System.
   1.   General Requirements - Every mobile home park shall contain an
electrical wiring system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment, and
appurtenances which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
local electric power company's specifications regulating such systems. If a
travel trailer camp is provided with an electrical wiring system it too shall
be installed in accordance with such specifications.
   2.   Power Distribution Lines -
      A.    Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at
least eighteen feet (18') above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal
clearance of three feet (3') between overhead wiring and any mobile home,
travel trailer, travel unit, service building or other structure.
      B.   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least
eighteen inches (18") below the ground surface and shall be insulated and
specifially designed for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less
than one foot (1') radial distance from water, sewer, gas, or communication
lines.
      C.   There shall be not more than one service drop and one central
metering bank for every five mobile home and travel trailer lots. The service
entrance from the central metering bank to the individual mobile home or travel
trailer lot shall be installed underground in conformance with the National
Electric Code.
   3.   Individual Electrical Connections for Mobile Homes -
      A.   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved
disconnecting device and overcurrent protective equipment. The minimum service
per outlet shall be 120/240 volts AC, 50 amperes.
      B.   Outlet receptacles at each mobile home stand shall be located not
more than twenty-five feet (25') from the overcurrent protective devices in the
mobile home and a three (3) pole, four (4) wire grounding type shall be used.
Receptacles shall be of weatherproof construction and configurations shall be
in accordance with American Standard Outlet Receptacle C-73.1
      C.   The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet receptacle by an
approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment plug.
      D.   Where the calculated load of the mobile home is more than fifty (50)
amperes either a second outlet receptacle shall be in­ stalled or electrical
service shall be provided by means of perma­ nently installed conductors.
   4.   Individual Electrical Connections for Travel; Trailers and Travel Units
-
      A.   If individual travel trailer or travel unit spaces are connected to
the electrical wiring system, an approved type of discon­ necting device and
overcurrent protective equipment shall be provided. The service per outlet
shall be 120 volt AC. 15 amperes and/or 30 amperes.
      B.   Outlet receptacles at individual trailer spaces shall be located not
more than twenty-five feet (25') from the overcurrent protective devices in the
trailer and a three-wire grounding type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of
weather proof construction and configurations shall be in accordance with
American Standard Outlet Receptacle C-73.1.
      C.   The trailer shall be connected to the outlet receptacles by an
approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attach­ ment plug.
   5.   Required Grounding - All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of
mobile homes and travel trailers and all other equipment shall be grounded by
means of a ground conductor run with branch circuit conductor or other method
of approved grounded metallic wire. The neutral conductor shall not be used as
an equipment ground for mobile homes and travel trailers or other equipment.
   6.   Master TV Antenna System - Mobile home parks shall be equipped with a
master antenna system with buried cable to each mobile home stand. No
individual TV antenna will be permitted.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 9)
§ 110. Service Buildings and Facilities.
   1.   General Requirements for Mobile Home Parks and Travel Trailer Camps -
      A.   Provision of Buildings and Facilities - Each mobile home park or
travel trailer camp shall be provided with one or more service buildings,
adequately constructed and equipped, and conveniently located to meet the
anticipated needs of intended park or camp inhabi­ tants. Service buildings for
management, maintenance, sanitation laundry, indoor recreation, and other
similar activities shall be considered.
      B.   Structural Requirements for Buildings -
         (1)   All portions of structures shall be properly protected from
damage by ordinary use and by decay, corrosion, termites and other destructive
elements. Exterior portions shall be of such material and be so constructed and
protected as to prevent entrance or penetration of moisture and weather.
         (2)   All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall have
sound resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and female sanitary
facilities. Walls and parti­ tions around showers, bathtubs, lavatories, and
other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense, nonabsorbent, water-
proof material or covered with moisture resistant material.
         (3)   All rooms, containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall have
at least one window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum
aggregate gross area of windows for each required room shall be not less than
ten percent (10%) of the floor area served by them.
         (4)   All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall have
at least one window which can be easily opened, or a mechanical device which
will adequately ventilate the room.
         (5)   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with
self-closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The rooms
shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior
doors are open.
         (6)   Illumination levels shall be maintained as follows: (1) general
seeing tasks--five footcandles; (2) laundry room work area--40 footcandles; (3)
toilet room, in front of mirrors--40 footcandles.
         (7)   Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory sink
bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every
water closet and urinal.
      C.   Plumbing - All plumbing in service buildings and other park or camp
facilities shall comply with State and local plumbing codes and ordinances.
      D.   Laundry Drying Facilities - Adequate outside areas shall be provided
for drying laundry if clothes dryers are not provided in service buildings.
      E.   Condition of Buildings - All service buildings and related
facilities shall be kept in safe and sanitary condition at all times.
      F.   Screening of Doors and Windows - During the fly season, all doors,
windows and other opening to the outside of service buildings shall be
effectively screened, unless effective mechanical means are provided to prevent
entrance of flies.
      G.   Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves, and Incinerators - Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood burning stoves and incinerators shall
be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisances both on the property on which used and on neighboring property.
No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire
shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material burned which
emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
   2.   Specific Requirements for Mobile Home Parks -
      A.   Required Sanitary Facilities for Mobile Homes - For each 50 mobile
home lots or less, one (1) flush toilet and one (1) lavatory for each sex shall
be provided in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Health Standards.
      B.   Additional Storage - There shall be ninety (90) cubic feet for each
mobile home lot in a central location.
   3.   Specific Requirements for Travel Trailer Camps -
      A.   Sanitary Sewers to Dependent Travel Trailers and Travel Units -
Where a travel trailer camp, or any part thereof, is especially designed and
used exclusively for dependent travel trailers and travel units, sanitary
service buildings shall be conveniently located within a radius of three
hundred feet (300') of each travel trailer and travel unit space to be served,
and the number and type of sanitary facilities provided shall be in accordance
with Pennsylvania Department of Health standards.
      B.   Required Sanitary Services to Independent Travel Trailers and Travel
Units - Where a travel trailer camp, or any part thereof, is specifically
designed and used exclusively for independent travel trailers and travel units,
one (1) flush toilet and one (1) lavatory, and one (l) shower or tub for each
sex shall be provided for each fifty (50) trailer and travel unit spaces, and
the provision of such sanitary facilities shall be in accordance with
Pennsylvania Department of Health standards.
(Ord. 13, 8/9/1971, § 10)
§ 111. Refuse Handling.
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park or
travel trailer camp shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air
pollution and shall comply with the regulations of the Pennsylvania Department
of Health.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 11)
§ 112. Insect and Rodent Control.
Every mobile home park or travel trailer camp grounds, buildings and structures
shall be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall
conform with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 12)
§ 113. Fuel Supply and Storage.
   1.   Natural Gas System-
      A.   Natural gas piping systems when installed in mobile home parks or
travel trailer camps shall be maintained in conformity with accepted
engineering practices.
      B.   Each mobile home or travel trailer lot provided with piped gas shall
have an approved shut-off valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The
outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge
of gas when the outlet is not in use.
   2.   Liquified Petroleum Gas Systems - Liquified petroleum gas must be
supplied from a central system through buried pipes to mobile home and trailer
stands.
      A.   Liquified petroleum gas systems provided for mobile homes, travel
trailers, travel units service buildings or other structures when installed
shall be maintained by conformity with the rules and regulations of the
authority having jurisdiction and shall include the following:
         (1)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve
excessive pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a
safe location.
         (2)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting
off gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile home, travel trailer or
travel unit and shall be maintained in effective operating condition.
         (3)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes, travel trailers, or
travel units shall be well supported and protected against mechanical injury.
Undiluted liquified petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be conveyed through
piping equipment or systems in mobile homes, travel trailers, or travel units.
         (4)   Vessels of more than 12 and less than 60 U.S. gallons gross
capacity may be installed on a mobile home or travel trailer lot and shall be
securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental overturning.
         (5)   No LPG vessel shall be stored or located inside or beneath any
storage cabinet, carport, mobile home, travel trailer, travel unit, or any
other structures unless such instal­ lations are specially approved by the
authority having jurisdic­ tion.
   3.   Fuel Oil Supply Systems -
      A.   All fuel storage tanks must be buried.
      B.   All fuel oil supply systems provided for mobile homes, service
buildings and other structures shall be installed and main­ tained in
conformity with the rules and regulations of the authority having jurisdiction
when provided.
      C.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be securely, but not permanently fastened in place.
      D.   All fuel oil supply systems provided for mobile home service
buildings and other structures shall have shut-off valves located within five
inches (5") of storage tanks.
      E.   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely placed and
shall not be less than five feet (5') from any mobile home, travel trailer, or
travel unit exit.
      F.   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected
against physical damage.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 13)
§ 114. Fire Protection.
   1.   The mobile home park shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the South Annville Township fire prevention authority where provided.
   2.   Mobile home park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   3.   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Pennsylvania
Department of Health shall be kept in public service buildings under control,
and in each mobile home, travel trailer or travel unit.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 14)
§ 115. Miscellaneous Requirements.
   1.   Responsibilities of the Park Management -
      A.   The person to whom a license for a mobile home or travel trailer
camp is issued shall operate the park in compliance with this Chapter and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in clean and sanitary condition.
      B.   The mobile home park or travel trailer camp management shall
supervise the placement of each mobile home, travel trailer, or travel unit, on
its lot, which includes securing its stability and installing all utility
connections.
      C.   The mobile home park or travel trailer camp management shall give
the Township Board of Supervisors free access to all mobile home lots, service
buildings and other common service facilities for the purpose of inspection.
      D.   The management shall maintain a register containing the names of all
park or camp occupants. Such register shall be available to any authorized
person inspecting the park or camp.
      E.   The management shall notify the local Pennsylvania of Health
Department immediately of any suspected communicable or contagious disease
within the mobile home park or travel trailer camp.
   2.   Restriction of Animals and Pets - No owner or person in charge of a
dog, cat, or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any
nuisance within the limits of any mobile home park or travel trailer camp.
   3.   Length of Occupancy in Travel Trailer Camps - Trailer spaces shall be
rented by the day or week only, and the occupant of a trailer space shall
remain in the same travel trailer camp not more than thirty (30) days.
   4.   Restriction on Occupancy in Mobile Home Parks - A mobile home shall not
be occupied for dwelling purposes unless it is properly placed on a mobile home
stand and connected to water, sewerage and electrical utilities.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 15)
§ 116. Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any prov1s1on of this
Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00); and/or to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed ninety (90) days. Every day that a violation of this Chapter continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   2.   Revocation or Suspension of License - Upon repeated violations by the
same licensee his right to the issuance of a license, or to continued operation
under a license, may be suspended for a fixed term, or permanently revoked,
after notice and hearing by the Township Board of Supervisors, subject to the
right of appeal to the Court of Common Pleas in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 8/9/1971, § 16; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
CHAPTER 15
MOTOR VEHICLES
Part 1
General Regulations
   §
101.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
   §
103.   Provisions to be a Continuation of Existing Regulations
   §
104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
   §
105.   Experimental Regulations
   §
106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction, Maintenance or
Special Events
   §
107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages
   §
108.   Authority of Police officers
   §
109.   Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
   §
201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets
   §
202.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations
   §
203.   Stop Intersections Established
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicle and Load
   §
301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges
   §
302.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
   §
401.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations
   §
402.   Penalty for Violation
   §
403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations and Certain Days and Hours
Part 5
Removal and Impounding of Illegally Parked Vehicles
   §
501.   Applicability and Scope
   §
502.   Authority to Remove and Impound
   §
503.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and Storage
   §
504.   Effect of Payment of Towing and Storage Charges
   §
505.   Reclamation Costs
   §
506.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded
   §
507.   Restrictions Upon Removal of Vehicles
   §
508.   Penalty
   §
509.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 101. Definitions and Interpretation.
   1.   Words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, except for sections or
Parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in The Vehicle Code (the Act of June 17, 1976, P.L.
162 No. 81), as amended, except that, in this Chapter, the word "street" may be
used interchangeably with the word "highway", and shall have the same meaning
as the word "highway" as defined in the Vehicle Code.
   2.   The term "legal holidays" as used in this Chapter shall mean and
include: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   3.   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 102. Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations.
All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted as
ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this Chapter, except where the law specifically authorizes less
formal action.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 103. Provisions to be Continuation of Existing Regulations.
The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately before the enactment of this
Chapter, are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 104. Temporary and Emergency Regulations.
The Chief of Police shall have the following powers to regulate traffic and
parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
   1.   in the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
   2.   in the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than seventy-
two (72) hours.
Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the Police
Department in the same manner as permanent regulations. Any person who shall
operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such regulations, or
who shall move, remove, destroy, injure or deface any sign or marking erected,
posted or made to give notice of any such regulation, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in this
Chapter 15 for a violation of such nature, and, in case of a violation for
which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this chapter,
to a fine of not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) together with costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 105. Experimental Regulations.
The Board of Supervisors may, from time to time by resolution, designate places
upon and along the highways in the Township of South Annville where for a
period of not more than ninety (90) days, specific traffic and/or parking
regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be in force and effect, and
shall designate such locations by proper signs and markings. Such regulations,
prohibitions and restrictions shall be effective as if they had been specified
in this Chapter. No person shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in
violation of any such regulation, prohibition or restriction, and no person
shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or marking erected, posted or
made by authority of this section. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set
forth in the law or elsewhere in this chapter for a violation of such nature,
and in case of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
law or elsewhere in this chapter, to a fine of not more than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) together with costs of prosecution; provided, the purpose of
this section is to allow for the test and experimental determination of the
feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the
Township relative to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 106. Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction, Maintenance or
Special Events.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors shall have authority to close any street or
specific part of a street to vehicular traffic and to place barriers or station
police officers at each end of the closed portion, while construction or
maintenance work is under way or a special event is being conducted on the
closed portion. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any
such closed portion.
   2.   The Board of Supervisors shall have authority to establish a restricted
traffic area upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under
way and to station flagmen at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic
area at any time when the flagman is displaying a sign directing that vehicle
to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not to
proceed.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and
costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 107. Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the words "assemblage" and
"procession" shall have the following meanings:
      ASSEMBLAGE - a gathering of people without vehicles, which interferes
with the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street;
      PROCESSION - a group of individuals, vehicles, animals and/or objects
moving along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of
traffic. A procession shall not include a funeral caravan or military convoy.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains a permit from the Chief of Police, which shall be issued without fee.
Application for the permit shall be made at least one week in advance of the
day on which the assemblage is proposed to be held, but in any case where a
state-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least three (3) weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall state
the place where and the date when the assemblage is to be held, the hour when
the assemblage may convene and the hour by which it shall have been completely
dispersed. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or to participate in any
assemblage unless the permit has been granted, or at any time or place other
than that authorized by the permit.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains a permit from the Chief of Police, which shall be issued without fee.
Application for the permit shall be made at least two (2) weeks in advance of
the day when the procession is proposed to be held, but in any case where a
state-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least three (3) weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall specify
the date on which the procession is to be held, the route to be followed by the
procession, the hour when and place where participants may commence to assemble
and form before the procession is under way, the time when the procession may
commence to move along its route, and the time by which the end of the
procession shall have reached the end of the route of the procession and the
procession shall have been disbanded. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hold or to participate in any procession unless the permit shall have been
granted, or under any conditions as to time or route or otherwise than those
stated in the permit. 4. Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) and costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 108. Authority of Police Officers.
The police officers of the Township are hereby given authority to direct
traffic on the highways of the Township and at intersections thereof.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 109. Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices.
The Township of South Annville Police Department is hereby authorized to use
all mechanical or electrical speed timing devices for the determination of
speed of a motor vehicle as are approved or will be approved by the Department
of Transportation of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
This section authorizes the use of said devices upon all highways within the
Township, be they Township, county or state highways, and does also hereby
elect to exercise all powers granted to "local authorities" under the Vehicle
Code of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 75 P.S. §§ 1101 et seq. (1977) as
hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly
of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 201. Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies, at a higher speed than
the maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
Street Between Maximum Speed Limit
Street                      Between                         Maximum Speed Limit
Bachman Road                entire length                   25 MPH
Beech Street                entire length                   25 MPH
Behney Drive                entire length                   25 MPH
Blue Jay Way                entire length                   25 MPH
Brandt Road                 between South Londonderry       35 MPH
                            Township line and Louser Road
Bricker Lane                entire length                   35 MPH
Chris Lane                  entire length                   25 MPH
                            from Route 934 traveling
Church Road (T.R. 415)      eastbound to the North Cornwall 35 MPH
                            Township line
College Avenue              entire length                   25 MPH
College Plaza               entire length                   25 MPH
Crestview Lane              entire length                   25 MPH
Elm Drive                   entire length                   25 MPH
Erinn Lane                  entire length                   25 MPH
Fieldstone Drive            entire length                   25 MPH
Finch Drive                 entire length                   25 MPH
Fontana Avenue              entire length                   25 MPH
Gingrich Avenue             entire length                   25 MPH
Horseshoe Drive             entire length                   25 MPH
Ironwood Drive              entire length                   25 MPH
Lake Drive                  entire length                   25 MPH
Lancaster Street            entire length                   25 MPH
Louser Rd. (T.R. 429)       between U.S. 322 & L.R.38028    40 MPH
                            (Mt. Pleasant Rd.)
Louser Rd. (T.R. 429)       Rt. 934 Road & Mt. Pleasant     25 MPH
Maple Drive                 entire length                   25 MPH
Mill Drive                  entire length                   25 MPH
Mill Place                  entire length                   25 MPH
Mt. Gretna Rd. (T.R.404)    L.R. 241 (Mt. Gretna Rd. to     45 MPH
                            (Mine Rd.)
                            U.S. Route 322 south to the
                            South Londonderry Township/
Mt. Pleasant Road (T.R.344) South Annville Township line, a 35 MPH
                            distance of approximately 2
                            miles
Mt. Pleasant Road           From Louser Road (T.R. 429) to  35 MPH
                            U.S. 422
Mt. Pleasant Road           From Louser Road (T.R. 429) to  45 MPH
                            U.S. 322
                            The intersection of Mt.
Mt. Wilson Road (L.R. 241)  Pleasant Rd. & U.S. 322 and the 45 MPH
                            South Londonderry Township Line
Nottingham Way              entire length                   25 MPH
Oak Drive                   entire length                   25 MPH
Pa. Rt. 934 (L.R. 38004)    Pa. 934 at Quittapahilla Creek  40 MPH
                            to Louser Rd.
Pearl Street                entire length                   25 MPH
Quittie Park Drive          entire length                   25 MPH
Reigerts Lane               entire length                   25 MPH
Ridge Road (T.R. 472)       entire length                   45 MPH
Russell Street              entire length                   25 MPH
School House Lane           entire length                   25 MPH
School Plaza                entire length                   25 MPH
Spruce Road (T.R.398)       entire length                   35 MPH
U.S. 322                    Rt. 934 to Mt. Pleasant Road    40 MPH
Valley Lane                 entire length                   25 MPH
Valley View Avenue          entire length                   25 MPH
Woodlawn Drive              entire length                   25 MPH
Wren Drive                  entire length                   25 MPH
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of thirty-five dollars ($35.00). Any
person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five (5) miles per hour
shall pay an additional fine of two dollars ($2.00) per mile for each mile in
excess of five (5) miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 8/9/1986; as amended by Ord. 94-112, 1/12/1994, §1; by Ord. 81094B, 8/10/
1994; by Ord. 7997, 7/9/1997, §1; by Ord. 12998, 12/9/1998; by Ord. 5-11-16, 5/
11/2016; by Ord. 8-9-17-1, 8/9/2017; by Ord. 10-10-18, 10/10/2018; by Ord. 9-9-
20, 9/9/2020; by Ord. 10-12-22, 10/12/2022; and by Ord. 8-14-24, 8/14/2024)
§ 202. Traffic Signals at Certain Locations.
   1.   At the following locations, traffic signals as indicated below shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected), and traffic at those locations
shall be directed by those signals:
 
Location                                    Type of Signal
State Highway 934 at Annville-Cleona School Flashing Light
 
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who disobeys the directions of any traffic
signal shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) and costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 203. Stop Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections are established as stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named street (the
intersecting of through street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in
the direction or directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection on the first named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by Section
3323(b) of the Vehicle Code, and shall not proceed into or across the second-
named or intersecting or through street until he has followed all applicable
requirements of that section of the law.
Stop Street Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street                 Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
Bachman Rd. (T.R. 396)      Royal Rd. (T.R. 417)           South
Brandt Rd. (T.R. 346)       Hinkle Rd. (T.R. 433)          East
                            Louser Rd. (T.R. 429)          South
Bricker Land (T.R. 421)     Spruce Rd. (T.R. 398)          West
Church Rd. (T.R. 415)       Pa. State 934                  West
College Ave. (T.R, 388)     Royal Rd. (T.R. 417)           South
                            School House In. (T.R. 380)    North
College Plaza (T.R. 392)    S. College Ave. (T.R. 388)     West
Crestview Dr. (T.R. 402)    Bachman Rd. (T.R. 396)         East
                            College Ave. (T.R. 388)        West
Fieldstone Drive            South Lancaster Street         East and West
Fieldstone Drive (southern  Nottingham Way                 East and West
intersection)
Finch Drive                 South Lancaster Street         West
Finch Drive (northern       Blue Jay Way                   East and West
intersection)
Finch Drive (southern       Blue Jay Way                   West
intersection)
Fontana Ave. (T.R. 515)     U.S. Rt. 322                   South
                            Pa. State 934                  East
Gingrich Ave.(T.R. 386)     Bachman Rd. (T.R. 396)         East
                            S. College Ave. (T.R. 388)     West
Hinkle Rd. (T.R. 433)       Brandt Rd. (T.R. 346)          West
Horseshoe Dr. (T.R. 434)    Hinkle Rd. (T.R. 433)          West
Ironwood Dr. (T.R. 362)     Valley Rd. (T.R. 360)          West
Killinger Rd. (T.R. 376)    U.S. 422                       North
Lake Dr. (T.R. 350)         Mt. Wilson Rd. (T.R.241)       South
Lancaster St. (T.R. 374)    Reigerts Ln. (T.R. 431         North and South
L.R. 38030                  Pa. State 934                  West
                            Mt. Pleasant Rd.               East and West
                            Pa. State 934                  West
Louser Rd. (T.R. 429)       U.S. 322                       South
                            Pa. State 934                  East
                            Pa. State 934                  South
Meadow Ln. (T.R. 348)       Louser Rd. (T.R. 429/U.S. 322) North
                                                           South
Mt. Gretna Rd. (T.R.        Colebrook Rd.                  East
404)                        T.R. 241 (Mt. Wilson Rd)       North
Mt. Pleasant Rd.            U.S. 322                       North and South
                            U.S. 422                       North
Mt. Wilson Rd.              U.S. 322                       North
Nottingham Way              Louser Road                    South
Nottingham Way              Finch Drive                    South
Nottingham Way              Louser Road (T-429)            North
Nottingham Way (northern    Fieldstone Drive               East
intersection)
Pa. State 934               U.S. 322                       South
Pearl St. (T.R. 382)        Gingrich Ave. (T.R. 386)       South
Quittie Dr. (T.R. 372)      Lancaster St. (T.R. 374)       East
Quittie Park Dr. (T.R. 372) Reigerts In. (T.R. 431)        South
Reigerts Ln. (T.R. 431)     Mt. Pleasant Rd.               West
                            Pa. State 934                  East
Reist Rd. (T.R. 419)        Royal Rd. (T.R. 417)           South
                            Lancaster St. (T.R. 374)       East and West
Ridge Rd. (T.R. 427)        Quittie Park Dr. (T.R. 431)    North
                            Quittie Dr. (T.R. 372)         East and West
                            Pa. State 934                  East
Royal Rd. (T.R. 417)        Spruce Rd. (T.R. 398)          East
                            Spruce Rd. (T.R. 398)          West
Russell St. (T.R. 400)      Crestview Dr. (T.R. 402)       South
                            Gingrich Ave. (T.R. 386)       North
School House Ln. (T.R. 380) Pa. State 934                  West
South Lancaster St.         Blue Jay Way                   South
Spruce Rd. (T.R. 398)       Royal Rd. (T.R. 417)           South
Valley Rd. (T.R. 360)       U.S. 322                       North
Valley View Rd. (T.R. 390)  Russell St. (T.R. 400)         East
                            S. College Ave. (T.R. 388)     East and West
Woodland Dr. (T.R. 358)     Mt. Gretna Rd. (T.R. 404)      West
Wren Drive                  Blue Jay Way                   South
Wren Drive                  South Lancaster St.            North
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and
costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986; as amended by Ord. 8-9-17-1, 8/9/2017; by Ord. 10-10-18, 10/10/
2018; by Ord. 9-9-20, 9/9/2020; and by Ord. 10-12-22, 10/12/2022)
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicle and Load
§ 301. Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by Section 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to drive any vehicle or combination having a gross weight in
excess of the maximum prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of
street, as the case may be:
 
Street or Bridge Between                       Maximum Gross Weight
                 On the S. Annville Twp.Line,
Hinkle Rd.       S. Londonderry Twp. Line over 12 tons
                 Killinger creek
Louser Road      S.R. 0322 to S.R. 0934        10 tons
Louser Road      S.R. 0322 to S.R. 0934        10 tons Registered Gross Weight
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
prosecuted under Sections 4902(a) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, and, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) plus one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each five hundred (500)
pounds, or part thereof, in excess of three thousand (3,000) pounds over the
maximum allowable weight, and costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986; as amended by Ord. 12-12-01, 12/12/2001, §1)
§ 302. Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than
passenger car on any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Street           Between
Fontana Avenue   Entire length
Quittie Park Dr. Pa. State Rt. 934 (L.R. 38004) & the intersection of Reigerts
                 Ln.
Ridge Rd.        Pa. State Rt. 934 (L.R. 38004) & Quittie Park Dr.
Valley View Ave. Russell St. and Louser Rd.
 
Provided: nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from driving an
emergency vehicle on any of those streets or parts of streets, or from driving
on any of those streets or parts of streets a truck or other commercial vehicle
making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located along that street
or part of a street.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and
costs.
(Ord. 8/9/1986; as amended by Ord 94-112, 1/12/1994, §2)
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
§ 401. Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations.
Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
 
Street       Side  Between
Pennsylvania Both  Reighert’s Lane and Quittaphilla Creek
Route 934
Pennsylvania
Route 934    East  From the entrance to the Annville-Cleona High School south 617 feet to the
[Ord. 11-12-       exit of the Annville-Cleona High School
08]
Pennsylvania
Route 934    West  From a point in the intersection of Reigart’s Lane and Route 934 south 861
[Ord. 11-12-       feet to a point on the west side of Route 934
08]
School House
Lane [Ord.   North South College Avenue and Pearl Street
12-12-07]
U.S. 322     North Between the intersection of U.S. 322 and the intersection of L.R. 38028 (Mt.
                   Pleasant Rd.) and extending West, a distance of 660'
 
(Ord. 8/9/1986; as amended by Ord. 10902, 1/9/2002, §1; by Ord. 12-12-07, 12/
12/2007, §1; and by Ord. 11-12-08, 11/12/2008, §1)
§ 402. Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and
costs. Provided: it shall be the duty of the police officers and of parking
enforcement personnel of the Township to report to the appropriate official all
violations of any provision of this Part, indicating, in each case: the section
violated; the license number of the vehicle involved in the violation; the
location where the violation took place; and any other facts that might be
necessary in order to secure a clear understanding of the circumstances
attending the violation. The police officer or other person making the report
shall also attach to or place upon every such vehicle a notice stating that the
vehicle was parked in violation of this Part. The notice shall contain
instructions to the owner or driver of the vehicle that if he will report to
the office of the Chief of Police and pay the sum of five dollars ($5.00)
within forty-eight (48) hours after the time of the notice, that act will save
the violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine and costs prescribed
in the first sentence of this section. (Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 403. Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours.
   1.   No person shall park a vehicle, or allow it to remain parked, for
longer than the time indicated, in any of the following locations, at any time
on the days and between the hours indicated.
 
Street             Side Between              Days           Hours
                        From the exit to
Pennsylvania Route East Annville-Cleona High Monday through 7:00 a.m. to 3:00
934                     School South 210     Friday         p.m.
                        feet
 
[Ord. 11-12-08]
   2.   Failure to comply with this Section shall result in a citation and a
fine of not more than fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the first offense and not
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 8/9/1986, 8/9/1986; as added by Ord. 95-0614, 6/14/1995, §1; and as
amended by Ord. 81094, 8/10/1994; by Ord. 10902, 1/9/2002, §2; and by Ord. 11-
12-08, 11/12/2008, §2)
Part 5
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
§ 501. Applicability and Scope.
This Part is enacted under authority of Section 6109(a-22) of the Vehicle
Code*, and gives authority to the Township of South Annville to remove and
impound those vehicles which are parked in a tow away zone and in violation of
parking regulations of this Chapter. Vehicles which have been abandoned (as
defined by the Vehicle Code) or which are parked in such a manner as to
interfere with traffic or pose a hazard to others, may be towed under the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code. (Ord. 8/9/1986)
* 75 Pa C.S.A. §§ et seq. as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
§ 502. Authority to Remove and Impound.
The Township shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally,
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in §
501 of this Part. Provided: no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded
except in strict adherence to the provisions of this Part, or the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 503. Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and Storage.
Removal and impounding of vehicles under this Chapter shall be done only by
"approved storage garages" that shall be designated from time to time by Board
of Supervisors. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the Board of
Supervisors that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount
satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors as sufficient to indemnify owners of
impounded vehicles against loss or damage to those vehicles while in the
custody of the garage keeper for the purpose of towing or storage. The approved
storage garage shall submit to the Board of Supervisors its schedule of charges
for towing and storage of vehicles under this Chapter, and, when the schedule
is approved by the Board of Supervisors, those charges shall be adhered to by
the approved storage garage; no different schedule of charges shall be demanded
of or collected from any person whose vehicle is removed or impounded under
this Chapter by any approved storage garage. The Board of Supervisors shall
delete from its list of approved storage garages any garage that makes any
unapproved charge in connection with any vehicle removed or impounded under
this Chapter.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 504. Effect of Payment of Towing and Storage Charges.
The payment of any towing and storage charges authorized by this Chapter shall,
unless payment is made "under protest", be final and conclusive, and shall
constitute a waiver of any right to recover the money so paid. If payment of
any towing or storage charges is made "under protest", the offender shall be
entitled to a hearing before a district justice. Payment of towing and storage
charges shall not relieve the owner or driver of any vehicle from liability for
any fine or penalty for the violation of the provision of this Chapter for
which the vehicle was removed or impounded.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 505. Reclamation Costs.
In order to reclaim his vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and storage costs,
plus a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee of which ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
transferred to the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation by the garage to
which the vehicle was taken.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 506. Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded.
The Township shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this Part and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or
the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place of
storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 507. Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles.
No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this Part or the Vehicle
Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person for the
time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and
intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 508. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) together with all
costs of disposing of the vehicle under provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S.
§§7301 et seq. (1977), as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 8/9/1986)
§ 509. Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles.
If after a period of fifteen (15) days the vehicle in storage remains
unclaimed, a report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with §7311 of The
Vehicle Code, by the person having legal custody of the vehicle. If the vehicle
has not been claimed after thirty (30) days, the vehicle may be transferred to
a licensed Salvor who will then be responsible for filing the proper reports
and disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 73 of
the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code
(75 Pa C.S.A. §§101 et seq., as amended). (Ord. 8/9/1986)
CHAPTER 16
PARKS AND RECREATION
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 17
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 18
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Part 1
Sewage Disposal Systems
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Legislative Intent
   §
103.   Adoption of Standards by Reference
   §
104.   Word Usage and Definitions
   §
105.   Procedure for Review of Planning Modules for Land Development and
Subdivision/Land Development Plans
   §
106.   Sewage Testing and Hydrogeologic Studies Required for All Proposed Lots
   §
107.   Replacement Location for On-Lot Sewage Disposal Systems Required
   §
108.   Identification of Replacement Location
   §
109.   Construction of Improvements upon Replacement Location Prohibited
   §
110.   Relief from Requirement of Designation of Replacement Location
   §
111.   Permit Required for All Lots
   §
112.   Planning Policies and Methodology
   §
113.   Permit Requirements and Procedures
   §
114.   Request for Permit Exemption Declaration
   §
115.   Permit Requirements for Non-Standard OLDS
   §
116.   Permit Requirements for Community Sewage Systems
   §
117.   Proper Operation and Maintenance of OLDS Required
   §
118.   Proper Operation and Maintenance of Community Sewage Systems Required
   §
119.   Reporting of Malfunctioning OLDS or Community Sewage System
   §
120.   Duties of Sewage Enforcement Officer
   §
121.   Inspections
   §
122.   Disposal of Septage
   §
123.   Administration
   §
124.   Violations and Penalties
   §
125.   Remedies
   §
126.   Declaration of Nuisance
   §
127.   Waiver of Liability
   §
128.   Appeals
   §
129.   Continuation of Prior Regulations
   §
130.   Schedule of Fees
Part 2
Holding Tanks
   §
201.   Title
   §
202.   Purpose
   §
203.   Definitions
   §
204.   Rights and Privileges Granted
   §
205.   Rules, Regulations and Agreements
   §
206.   Rules, Regulations to Be Conformity with Applicable Law
   §
207.   Rates and Charges
   §
208.   Exclusiveness of Rights and Privileges
   §
209.   Conditions of Holding Tank Use
   §
210.   Duties of Improved Property Owner
   §
211.   Malfunctioning Holding Tank
   §
212.   Violations and Penalties
   §
213.   Abatement of Nuisances
Part 3
Connections to Public Sewer System
   §
301.   Short Title
   §
302.   Definitions
   §
303.   Use of Public Sewer Required
   §
304.   Building Sewers and Connections
   §
305.   Rules and Regulations
   §
306.   Prohibited Discharges
   §
307.   Violations and Penalties
   §
308.   Purpose
Part 1
Sewage Disposal Systems
§ 101. Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "South Annville Township On-
Lot and Community Sewage System Ordinance."
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 102. Legislative Intent.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors recognizes that individual on-lot sewage
disposal systems constitute a valid and approved manner of conserving the
quality of the water and other natural resources of the Township through proper
treatment of wastes generated by development within the Township. The use of
individual on-lot sewage systems must be regulated in accordance with the
regulations promulgated by the Department of Environmental Protection which
pertain to the location and permitted types of on-lot sewage disposal systems.
In addition, the Township has determined that should the on-lot sewage system
disposal system installed by a landowner fail, the water quality and other
natural resources of the Township may be polluted. It is especially of concern
to the Board that such pollution may occur when a system fails and there is no
suitable area on the lot for the installation of a replacement system.
Therefore, in order to protect the water quality and other natural resources of
the Township, thereby protecting the health and welfare of residents and
visitors, the Board desires to require that all landowners provide and set
aside areas for the installation of replacement individual on-lot sewage
disposal systems.
   2.   It is the further intent of the Board to insure that on-lot sewage
disposal systems are properly maintained. Failure to maintain on-lot sewage
disposal systems results in malfunctions which in turn results in the pollution
of the water quality and other natural resources of the Township. On-lot sewage
disposal systems should be pumped out on a regular basis, and it is the
responsibility of all landowners to insure such maintenance is performed.
   3.   The Board also desires to provide for the proper maintenance of the
community systems which may be installed in the Township in the future. Proper
maintenance of community sewage systems is essential to preserve and protect
the health and welfare of Township residents and to preserve and protect the
environment.
   4.   The purpose of this Part is to provide for the inspection, maintenance
and rehabilitation of on-lot sewage disposal systems; to further permit the
Township to intervene in situations which are public nuisances or hazards to
the public health and to establish penalties and appeal procedures necessary
for the proper administration of a sewage management program. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 1)
§ 103. Adoption of Standards by Reference.
A certain document, three (3) copies of which have been and are presently on
file in the office of the Secretary of the Township of South Annville, being
marked and designated as Chapters 71, 72, and 73 of Title 25 of the
Pennsylvania Code, being promulgated by the Department of Environmental
Protection of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, be and are hereby adopted as
the sewage permit application and installation procedure of the Township and
each and all of the regula-tions contained in the said Chapters are hereby
adopted by the Township except as modified by this Part. It is the intent of
the Board to adopt all subsequent amendments and revisions to the said Chapters
as permitted by law and in accordance with the provisions of 1 Pa.C.S. § 1937
(a). If such an intent is found invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
it is the intent of the Board to adopt the said Chapters as they existed on the
effective date of this Part.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 104. Word Usage and Definitions.
   1.   Word Usage. In the interpretation of this Part, the singular shall
include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter.
   2.   Definitions. All words and phrases not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meaning provided in § 2 of the Act, 35 P.S. § 750.2, § 71.1 of the
Department's Regulations, 25 Pa.Code § 71.1, or § 73.1 of the Department's
Regulations, 25 Pa.Code § 73.1, or the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
      ACT - the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act of January 24, 1966,
P.L. (1965) 1535, No. 537, as amended, 35 P.S. § 750.1 et seq.
      AUTHORITY - South Annville Township, Lebanon County, Municipal Authority.
[Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      AUTHORIZED AGENT - a licensed sewage enforcement officer, profes-sional
engineer or sanitarian, plumbing inspector, soil scientist, zoning officer,
building code official, Sewage Management Program Coordinator, or any other
qualified or licensed person who is delegated to function within the specified
limits as the agent of the Board of Supervisors to carry out the provisions of
this or any other ordinance of the Township. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      BOARD - the Board of Supervisors of the Township.
      COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM - any system, whether publicly or privately
owned, for the collection of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature
from two or more lots, and the treatment and/or disposal of the sewage or
industrial waste on one (1) or more of the lots or at any other site and which
shall comply with all applicable regulations of the Department. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the sewage collection, transmission and treatment systems of the
public sewer service providers shall not be considered community sewage systems
for the purposes of this Part.
      DEPARTMENT - the Department of Environmental Protection of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any successor agency.
      DEVELOPER - any person who files a planning module for land development
with the Township; or who files an application for approval of a subdivision or
land development plan proposing the subdivision or development of land within
the Township; or who makes application for a permit; or who makes an
application for a zoning permit under the Township Zoning Ordinance [Chapter
27]; or who installs, repairs, modifies, or alters an OLDS or community sewage
system serving properties within this Township other than a governmental
entity.
      INDIVIDUAL ON-LOT SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OLDS) - any system of piping,
tanks, or other facilities serving on a single lot and collect-ing and
disposing of sewage in whole or in part into the soil and any waters of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and which is located upon the lot which it serves.
The term also includes an OLDS which meets the definition of non-standard
system.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT - a land development as defined in the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as
amended and reenacted, 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
      LOT - a parcel of land used or intended to be used as a building site or
a separate parcel to be created as a result of approval of a subdivision or
land development application or a condominium unit. The term "lot" shall
include parcels equal to or greater than ten (10) acres in size where the lot
may be occupied by one (1) or more persons or families.
      MALFUNCTION - the condition which occurs when an OLDS or community sewage
disposal discharges sewage onto the surface of the ground, into ground waters
of the Commonwealth, into surface waters of the Common-wealth, backs up into
the building connected to the OLDS or community sewage disposal system or
otherwise causes a nuisance hazard to the public health or pollution of ground
or surface water or contamination of public or private drinking water wells. An
OLDS or community sewage disposal system shall be considered to be
malfunctioning if any of the conditions set forth in this paragraph occur for
any length of time during any period of the year.
      NON-STANDARD SYSTEM - an OLDS which has any equipment which is not
commonly found on OLDS within Lebanon County or an OLDS which has been modified
to address groundwater contamination or other environmental issues or any OLDS
which requires additional approvals from the Department or a modification or
amendment to the Township's Official Plan.
      OFFICIAL PLAN - a comprehensive plan for the provision of adequate sewage
disposal systems adopted by the Township and approved by the Department in
accordance with the Act and with applicable Department regulations.
      OLDS - an individual on-lot sewage disposal system.
      OWNER - any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the Township. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      PERMIT - a permit issued by the Sewage Enforcement Officer after the
performance of tests to determine suitability to authorize the initial
installation of an OLDS or the repair, replacement or enlarge-ment of an
existing OLDS.
      PERSON - any individual, association, partnership, public or private
corporation whether for profit or not-for-profit, trust, estate, or other
legally recognized entity. Whenever the term "person" is used in connection
with any clause providing for the imposition of a fine or penalty or the
ordering of the action to comply with the terms of this Part, the term "person"
shall include the members of an association, partnership or firm and the
officers of any public or private corpora-tion, whether for profit or not-for-
profit.
      PLANNING MODULE FOR LAND DEVELOPMENT - a revision to the Township
Official Plan submitted in connection with the request for approval of a
subdivision or land development in accordance with Department regulations.
      PLANNING COMMISSION - the Township Planning Commission.
      PUBLIC SEWER SERVICE PROVIDER - any political subdivision or municipal
authority which provides or may in the future provide public sewer service
within the Township.
      REHABILITATION - work done to modify, alter, repair, enlarge or replace
an existing OLDS. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      REPLACEMENT LOCATION - a location designated as the future location of an
OLDS that shall be installed should the OLDS installed or to be installed fail
or otherwise become inoperable and which shall meet all the regulations of the
Department and all applicable Township ordinances for an OLDS.
      SEPTAGE - the residual scum and sludge pumped from septic systems. [Ord.
9-13-06-02]
      SEPTAGE HAULER - any person licensed by the Department or other
governmental agency to remove septage or other solids from treatment tanks of
OLDS or community sewage disposal systems, holding tanks, privies, aerobic
tanks, cesspools, or any other sewage disposal facility within the Township.
      SEWAGE - any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrement or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any
noxious or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public
health or to animals or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water
supply or for recreation or which constitutes pollution under the Clean Streams
Law.
      SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - the Sewage Enforcement Officer of the
Township.
      SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM - a program authorized by the Township for the
administration, management and regulation of the disposal of sewage. [Ord. 9-
13-06-02]
      SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM COORDINATOR - a person delegated by the
Township with the administrative responsibility to implement the sewage
management program and authority to enforce the ordinance provisions associated
therewith. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      SEWAGE MANAGEMENT REPORT - a form, provided by the Sewage Manage-ment
Program Coordinator, which shall be used by all registered septage haulers to
report each pumping of OLDS in the Township. [Ord. 9-13-06-02]
      SINGLE AND SEPARATE OWNERSHIP - the ownership of a lot by one (1) or more
persons which ownership is separate and distinct from that of any abutting or
adjoining lot.
      SUBDIVISION - a subdivision as defined by the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as amended and
reenacted, 52 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
      THE CLEAN STREAMS LAW - Act of June 22, 1937, P.L. 1987, No. 394, as
amended, 35 P.S. § 691.1 et seq.
      TOWNSHIP - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 2)
§ 105. Procedure for Review of Planning Modules for Land Development and
Subdivision/Land Development Plans.
In order to insure compliance with the Official Plan, all developers who
request approval of planning modules for land development or who request the
review of subdivision plans, and land development plans providing for sewage
disposal proposing sewage disposal by means of OLDS or community sewage systems
shall submit the following information to the Township for review in accordance
with the following requirements:
   A.   The developer shall submit the information required by this Section to
the Township with the planning module for land development or with the
preliminary subdivision or land development plan, whichever the developer first
submits to the Township.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the developer to submit the information to
all other reviewing agencies including, but not limited to, the Lebanon County
Planning Department, in accordance with the Department's regulations. It is the
responsibility of the developer to pay for the publication of any legal
advertisement which may be required by the Department's regulations. Failure of
the developer to pay the costs of legal advertisement within fifteen (15) days
after receipt of a copy of the newspaper's invoice shall render the submission
incom-plete.
   C.   The developer shall submit a written report detailing the planning and
decision making steps used in the selection of the method of sewage disposal.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 106. Sewage Testing and Hydrogeologic Studies Required for all Proposed Lots.
   1.   After the effective date of this Part, no requests for approvals of
planning modules for land development and no revisions or supplements to the
Official Plan shall be granted unless the applicant presents to the Board
evidence that each lot or lot to be created contains a suitable location for
the installation of an initial OLDS except when such lots or lots to be created
are to be served by a community sewage system. All tests required by the
Department and this Part for the location of an OLDS to confirm the suitability
of the location shall be performed as approved by the Department.
   2.   After the effective date of this Part, all planning modules for land
development except planning modules for land development which propose sewer
service by means of a public sewer service provider sewer system shall be
accompanied by hydrogeologic tests performed in accordance with all applicable
Department regulations. The Board shall not approve any planning module for
land development which does not contain hydrogeologic studies which demonstrate
that the proposed sewage disposal facilities will not adversely affect the
groundwater or that measures will be utilized, such as dispersion plume
easements, which will address the impacts of the proposed sewage disposal
facilities.
   3.   Well test results submitted with planning modules will be compared with
the Official Plan well test data. If the results vary from the Official Plan
well test data, the Township may require additional testing to verify any
discrepancies.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 107. Replacement Location for On-Lot Sewage Disposal Systems Required.
After the effective date of this Part, a replacement location for an OLDS shall
be required for all lots or lots to be created which are not serviced or to be
serviced by a community sewage system operated by a public sewer service
provider or for which a valid permit for an OLDS has not been issued. The
replacement location shall comply with the Act and with all regulations issued
by the Department as incorporated into this Part concerning OLDS, including
isolation distances, and with the terms of this Part and any other applicable
Township ordinances.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 108. Identification of Replacement Location.
   1.   Each person who shall apply for a permit under the Township Zoning
Ordinance [Chapter 27] or for a permit for an OLDS (other than a permit for a
repair to or modification of an existing OLDS) or who shall request approval of
a planning module for land development or the adoption of a revision or
supplement to the Official Plan or who shall file an application for
subdivision or land development approval which proposes sewage disposal by
means of OLDS shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Sewage Enforcement
Officer that a suitable area exists on the lot or on each lot to be created for
an initial OLDS and for the replacement location. All tests required by the
Department and this Part for the location of an OLDS to confirm the suitability
of the replacement location shall be performed as approved by the Department.
Allowance of open land for the replacement location without testing performed
or observed by the Sewage Enforcement Officer shall not constitute compliance
with the requirements of this Section.
   2.   The developer shall identify the location of the initial OLDS and the
replacement location as confirmed by the Sewage Enforcement Officer on the plot
plans and diagrams submitted as a part of the subdivision or land development
plan and as part of the permit application.
   3.   If the application has been submitted as a part of an application for
approval or review of a planning module for land development, the developer
shall identify the location of each OLDS and each replacement location upon the
plans. If the application is for subdivision or land development approval, the
developer shall include a note on the plans stating that no improvements shall
be constructed upon the replacement location, and the deed to each lot created
as a part of the subdivision or land development shall contain language
reflecting this limitation.
   4.   Any revisions to a permit affecting a replacement location which
previously has been issued pursuant to the provisions of this Part shall be
approved by the Board or its authorized representative. Any revisions to a
subdivision or land development plan affecting a replacement location which has
been previously approved pursuant to the provisions of this Part shall be
approved by the entity with power to approve subdivision and land development
plans in the Township.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 109. Construction of Improvements upon Replacement Location Prohibited.
No person shall construct or install any permanent or temporary improvements of
any character other than the planting of trees, shrubs, or other plant matter
upon the replacement location unless the person who desires to construct such
improvements shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Sewage Enforcement
Officer that an alternate replacement location which complies with all
applicable regulations of the Department, this Part and all other applicable
Township ordinances exists upon the lot. If such an alternate replacement
location shall be identified, the alternate replacement location may be
considered to be the replacement location required by this Part and shall be
designated as the replacement location. The newly designated replacement
location shall thereafter be considered the replace-ment location for the
purposes of this Part.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 110. Relief from Requirement of Designation of Replacement Location.
If any lot held in single and separate ownership as of the effective date of
this Part shall not contain land suitable for a replacement location, the
applicant for a permit under the Township Zoning Ordinance [Chapter 27] or an
installation permit for an OLDS may request that the Board of Supervisors grant
an exception to the requirement of providing a replacement location. Applicants
for relief under this Section shalt submit a written application setting forth
the information required by this Section and shall include the application fee
established by resolution or ordinance of the Board of Supervisors. The
applicant for such an exception shall present credible evidence to the Board
demonstrating (1) that the lot was held in single and separate ownership on the
effective date of this Part; (2) the size of the lot; (3) inability of the
applicant to acquire adjacent land or the unsuitability of adjacent land which
might be able to be acquired; and (4) the testing conducted to determine that
the lot is not suitable to provide a replacement location. At all times the
burden to present credible evidence and the burden of persuasion shall be upon
the applicant for an exception from the terms of this Part.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 111. Permit Required for All Lots.
The landowner and any contractor performing work upon an OLDS shall obtain a
permit from the Sewage Enforce-ment Officer in accordance with the Act, the
regulations of the Department, and this Part prior to the installation,
alteration, modification, repair or replacement of any OLDS. This requirement
shall apply to all lots within the Township regardless of the size of the lot
and regardless of the familial relationship of the person seeking to install
the OLDS to the property owner. The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall not issue
a permit for an OLDS until a suitable replacement location has been established
or until the applicant presents the Sewage Enforcement Officer with a written
determination by the Board granting relief from the designation of a
replacement location in accordance with § 110 of this Part or unless such
permit is requested to repair a malfunction of an existing OLDS.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 112. Planning Policies and Methodology.
All developers within the Township shall design sewage disposal systems in
accordance with the planning policies and methodology set forth in this
Section. The developer shall include a narrative with any planning submission
which shall demonstrate the procedure used by the developer in determining the
sewage disposal facilities proposed for the development. If the developer is
not required to submit a planning submission, the developer shall present
information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this Section with his or
her application to the Sewage Enforcement Officer for a permit to install,
repair, alter or modify an OLDS.
   A.   The Township encourages use of OLDS wherever feasible and economical
outside of the present and future public sewer service area as defined by the
Official Plan of the Township. Developers shall use outside of the public sewer
service area planning policies which foster the non-sewer approach and the
conservation of groundwater resources. At a minimum, the developer shall
address the following Township policies:
      (1)   Establish OLDS and community sewage disposal system ownership and
maintenance responsibilities with the individual lot owner, a homeowners
association, condominium unit owners associa-tion or the developer.
      (2)   Provide water conservation and waste flow reduction by the use of
water-saving devices and other state of the art water conservation methods for
all new construction and the replacement of any components of existing
structures.
      (3)   Recycle wastewater by relying upon OLDS for groundwater recharge
via subsurface disposal of treated wastewater.
      (4)   Restrict subsurface community sewage disposal systems to resolution
of sewage related problems of existing structures.
   B.   The methodology for selecting and evaluating specific OLDS shall be a
progressive multi-step process. The developer may consider and evaluate a
community sewage system outside of the public sewered areas established by the
Official Plan only when individual OLDS are not feasible.
      (1)   Evaluate Individual OLDS. The approved individual wastewater
treatment systems within the Township are septic tanks, aerobic treatment
units, spray irrigation systems and, if no other method is feasible, individual
stream discharge systems. These treatment methods may be used with the various
effluent treatment and disposal methods outlined below:
         (a)   Conventional Subsurface Absorption System. If a site is suitable
in accordance with Department regulations for conventional sewage disposal
systems such as a septic or aerobic tank with an absorption area (standard
trench, seepage bed, subsurface sand filter or elevated sand mounds), the
appropriate combination of wastewater treatment and effluent disposal system
shall be selected as the most cost-effective OLDS.
         (b)   Conventional Spray Irrigation or Stream Discharge System. If a
site is suitable in accordance with Department regulations for a conventional
spray irrigation or individual stream discharge system, and if the site is not
suitable for a conventional subsurface absorption system, the appropriate
combination of wastewater treatment and effluent disposal system shall be
selected.
         (c)   Alternate systems. The developer shall evaluate alternate
systems if there are inadequate soils or other concerns on the site that
prevent the use of conventional septic systems. These systems shall use
technology that has been proven successful. The design of the alternate system
shall be approved in accordance with the regulations of the Department and the
Act.
         (d)   Experimental Systems. The Township does not encourage
experimental systems. A developer may propose the use of an experimental system
only in areas where other alternatives are not available. The developer shall
submit all documentation required for approval of the experimental system in
accordance with the regulations of the Department and the Act. Testing,
monitoring and permitting of these systems shall comply with the requirements
of the Department.
      (2)   Replacement Location. The developer shall provide a replacement
location for each OLDS set forth above unless such OLDS is being installed to
address an existing malfunction and no replacement location is available or
unless the developer obtains a waiver from the requirement to provide a
replacement location in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
      (3)   Examine Combined Individual and Community Systems. As a remedial
action, a developer may propose the linking of existing, malfunctioning OLDS to
a new development to solve the malfunction-ing condition.
      (4)   Examine Community Sewage Systems. The developer may evaluate
community sewage systems only if it is not feasible to provide for sewage
disposal through OLDS. The developer shall provide on-site or off-site
wastewater treatment. The developer shall review each collection alternative
and shall select an effluent disposal method from the various alternatives.
Community sewage systems shall be utilized only for correction of sewage
related problems of existing OLDS or community sewage systems unless the
community sewage system is operated by a governmental entity in accordance with
the Township Official Plan.
   C.   The developer shall evaluate the construction cost, operation and
maintenance costs, and environmental impacts of each method of sewage disposal
and shall choose the most appropriate for maintenance of water quality. The
developer shall present the evaluation to the Township as part of its planning
submission.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 113. Permit Requirements and Procedures.
All landowners, developers and contractors who desire to install, repair,
modify, rehabilitate, or alter an OLDS in the Township shall obtain a permit
from the Sewage Enforcement Officer prior to the commencement of such work. All
landowners, developers and contractors who desire to repair, modify,
rehabilitate, alter or replace any OLDS or component of an OLDS which is or may
be malfunctioning shall obtain a permit from the Sewage Enforcement Officer
prior to commencement of any work. All work performed under any permit shall
comply with the following regulations:
   A.   The holder of a permit and the contractor performing work under such
permit shall notify the Sewage Enforcement Officer at least three (3) working
days before commencing installation, repair, modification, rehabilitation or
alteration of the OLDS in order that one (1) or more inspections in addition to
the final inspection required by the Department may be scheduled and performed
by the Sewage Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Any OLDS permit providing for the installation or repair of a septic
tank shall require that the septic tank contain septic solid retainers of the
type as specified by the Department's regulations. This is to obtain the
highest quality effluent.
   C.   If construction or installation of the OLDS and of any building or
structure for which such OLDS is to be installed has not commenced within three
(3) years after the issuance of the permit for such OLDS, the permit shall
expire. The landowner and/or contractor shall obtain a new permit prior to
commencement of the installation, repair, modification, replacement or
alteration of the OLDS.
   D.   The holder of the permit and the contractor performing work under a
permit to repair, modify, alter, rehabilitate or replace an OLDS which is
malfunctioning or which may be malfunctioning shall notify the Sewage
Enforcement Officer within twenty-four (24) hours after comple-tion of the
work. The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall inspect the repaired, modified,
altered or rehabilitated OLDS to insure compliance with the regulations and
this Part.
   E.   Any person who shall install new or rehabilitated systems shall provide
a marker or markers at ground level locating the subsur-face waste disposal
tank, tank access, and other important components of the system requiring
periodic inspection and maintenance. Requirements for marker types and
locations will be determined by the Sewage Enforcement Officer. In addition, a
riser or manhole extension shall be constructed to finished grade or to not
more than twelve (12) inches below grade when the location is identified by
ground marker. If access is extended to grade, the access cover shall be
airtight and shall be secured by bolts or locking mechanisms, or have
sufficient weight to prevent unauthorized access in accordance with Department
regulations.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 3)
§ 114. Request for Permit Exemption Declaration.
Any person desiring to perform soil fracturing or use of the terra lift
procedure on any portion of an OLDS shall provide written notification to the
Sewage Enforcement Officer at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
commencement of such work. The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall review the
information submitted to determine whether the proposed work is maintenance and
exempt from permit requirements or is a repair, alteration, or modification
which requires a permit pursuant to §
113 of this Part. The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall notify the applicant
within such forty-eight (48)-hour period if the applicant must obtain a permit.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 115. Permit Requirements for Non-Standard OLDS.
All landowners, developers and contractors who desire to install a non-standard
OLDS, in addition to all requirements of §§
111,
112 and
113 of this Part, shall also meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   The record owner of the lot on which such non-standard OLDS is to be
installed and, if different, the applicant, shall enter into an agreement with
the Township, in recordable form, providing for the long-term maintenance of
the system which grants the Township the right to enter upon the property; to
inspect such system not less than once each year and, in addition, whenever the
Township receives a complaint or otherwise has reason to believe that such
system is not functioning properly; to maintain such system if the landowner
fails to do so; and to recover the cost of any maintenance performed plus a
penalty from the landowner. The agreement shall specifically authorize the
Township to file a municipal claim against the property to recover costs and
fees and shall specifically state that its provisions are binding upon the
landowner executing the agreement and upon all successive owners of the
property until the system is removed and the property is connected to a public
sewer service provider sewer system.
   B.   If the Township so requires, the applicant shall post financial
security with the Township to secure the future maintenance of the non-standard
OLDS and payment of costs of annual inspection of such system. The amount of
the financial security shall be based upon the estimated cost to maintain the
particular non-standard system chosen by the applicant. The financial security
shall be posted through an irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to
the Township Solicitor or in a cash escrow which the Township shall maintain in
a non-interest bearing account. The Township shall not release such financial
security until the Township is provided with alternate financial security or
until the system is removed and the property is connected to a public sewer
system owned and operated by a governmental entity.
   C.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Township that the proposed non-
standard OLDS meets all applicable Department regulations and that the
applicant has obtained all necessary approvals and permits.
   D.   The applicant shall provide the Township with a complete set of as-
built plans for the non-standard OLDS after its installation.
   E.   The applicant shall reimburse the Township for all costs incurred in
the preparation of the agreement and its recording.
   F.   The applicant shall pay all costs associated with the yearly inspection
of the non-standard OLDS.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 116. Permit Requirements for Community Sewage Systems.
All landowners, developers and contractors who desire to install a community
sewage system shall meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   The record owner of the lot on which the community sewage system is to
be installed and, if different, the applicant, shall enter into an agreement
with the Township, in recordable form, providing for the long-term maintenance
of the community sewage system which grants the Township the right to enter
upon the property; to inspect such community sewage system not less than once
each year and, in addition, whenever the Township receives a complaint or
otherwise has reason to believe that such community sewage system is not
functioning properly; to maintain such community sewage system if the owner
fails to do so; and to recover the cost of any maintenance performed plus a
penalty from the owner. The agreement shall specifically authorize the Township
to file a municipal claim against the property served by the community sewage
system to recover costs and fees and shall specifically state that its
provisions are binding upon the landowner executing the agreement and upon all
successive owners of the property and any lots which are served by the
community sewage system until the community sewage system is removed and the
property is connected to a public sewer service provider system or until a
public sewer service provider assumes ownership and maintenance responsibility
for the community sewage system.
   B.   The applicant shall post financial security with the Township to secure
the future maintenance of the community sewage system and payment of costs of
annual inspection of such system. The amount of the financial security shall be
based upon the estimated cost to maintain the particular community sewage
system chosen by the applicant and shall not be less than five thousand
($5,000.00) dollars. The financial security shall be posted through an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the Township Solicitor or
in a cash escrow which the Township shall maintain in a non-interest bearing
account. The Township shall not release such financial security until the
Township is provided with alternate financial security or until the community
sewage system is removed and the property is connected to a public sewer
service provider system or until a public sewer service provider assumes
ownership and maintenance responsibility for the community sewage system.
   C.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Township that the proposed
community sewage system meets all applicable Department regulations and that
the applicant has obtained all necessary approvals and permits.
   D.   The applicant shall provide the Township with a complete set of as-
built plans for the community sewage system after its installa-tion.
   E.   The applicant shall reimburse the Township for all costs incurred in
the preparation of the agreement and its recording.
   F.   The applicant shall pay all costs associated with the yearly inspection
of the community sewage system.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 117. Proper Operation and Maintenance of OLDS Required.
All persons who own a lot upon which an OLDS is installed and all persons who
occupy a lot on which an OLDS is installed shall properly use and maintain such
OLDS. Proper maintenance of an OLDS shall include, at a minimum:
   A.   Any person owning a lot served by an OLDS shall have the septic tank
pumped by a septage hauler registered with the Township within ninety (90) days
of receiving official notice. Thereafter, that person shall have the tank
pumped at least every three (3) years, upon notice to do so, or whenever an
inspection reveals that the septic tank is filled with solids or scum in excess
of one third (1/3) of the liquid depth of the tank. The septage hauler shall
submit a report to the owner and to the Sewage Management Program Coordinator
as required in paragraph .A(4).
      (1)   If any person provides a receipt or other written evidence showing
that their tank had been pumped within one (1) year prior to the effective date
of this Section, the Sewage Management Program Coordinator may delay that
person's initial required pumping to conform to the general three (3) year
frequency requirement.
      (2)   The Sewage Management Program Coordinator may allow OLDS septic
tanks to be pumped out at less frequent intervals when the owner can
demonstrate to the Sewage Management Program Coordinator that the OLDS can
operate properly without the need for pump out. An owner may submit such a
request to the Sewage Management Program Coordinator at any time. The request
must be in writing with all supporting documents attached. The Sewage
Management Program Coordinator, in making its determination, shall take into
account the information submitted by the applicant, the permit issued by the
Sewage Enforcement Officer upon installation or rehabilitation of the OLDS and
supporting documentation, reports of inspection and maintenance of the OLDS,
and other relevant information, and may conduct an on-site inspection. The
applicant shall bear the cost of any inspection, surface or subsurface, and
soil or wastes sampling conducted for the purposes of evaluating the request.
Upon receipt of the reports and recommendation the Sewage Manage-ment Program
Coordinator shall issue a decision within sixty (60) days.
      (3)   The required pumping frequency may be increased at the discretion
of the Sewage Management Program Coordinator if the septic tank is undersized,
if solids buildup in the tank is greater than one third (1/3) of the liquid
depth of the tank, if the hydraulic load on the OLDS increases significantly
above average, if a garbage grinder is used in the building, if the OLDS
malfunc-tions or for other good cause shown.
      (4)   Upon completion of each required pumping, the septage hauler shall
fill out and submit a signed copy of the approved Sewage Management Report form
to the Sewage Management Program Coordinator. The Sewage Management Program
Coordinator shall provide copies of the approved forms to all registered
septage haulers. The septage hauler shall provide one copy of the Sewage
Management Report to the owner and one copy to the Sewage Manage-ment Program
Coordinator. The septage hauler shall submit the copies to the Sewage
Management Program Coordinator within thirty (30) days of the date of pumping
of the OLDS along with the required administrative fee.
      (5)   Any owner of a lot served by an OLDS which utilizes an aerobic
treatment tank shall follow the operation and maintenance recommendations of
the equipment manufacturer. A copy of the manufacturer's recommendations and a
copy of the service agreement shall be submitted to the Sewage Management
Program Coordinator within six (6) months of the effective date of this
Section. Thereafter, service receipts shall be submitted to the Sewage
Management Program Coordinator at the intervals specified by the manufacturer's
recommendations. In no case may the service or pumping intervals exceed those
required for septic tanks.
      (6)   The Township's authorized agent may require additional maintenance
activity as needed including, but not necessarily limited to, cleaning and
unclogging of piping; servicing and the repair of mechanical equipment;
leveling of distribution boxes, tanks and lines; removal of obstructing roots
or trees; the diversion of surface water away from the disposal area, etc.
Repair permits issued by the Sewage Enforcement Officer may be required for
these activities, as applicable.
[Ord. 9-13-06-02]
   B.   Maintenance of surface contouring and other measures consis-tent with
the regulations of the Department to divert stormwater away from the treatment
facilities and absorption areas and to protect the absorption areas from
physical damage.
   C.   Following any operation and maintenance recommendations of the
manufacturer of the OLDS. If the OLDS is a non-standard OLDS, addition-ally
following the operation and maintenance recommendations of the manufacturer of
the non-standard equipment which is part of the OLDS.
   D.   Discharging only domestic sanitary sewage into an OLDS. The following
types of waste shall not be discharged into an OLDS:
      (1)   Industrial waste.
      (2)   Automobile oil, other non-domestic oil, grease, nonbiodegradable
soaps, detergents and/or inert materials such as coffee grounds.
      (3)   Toxic or hazardous substances or chemicals including but not
limited to pesticides, disinfectants, acids, paints, paint thinners,
herbicides, gasoline and other solvents.
      (4)   Clean surface or ground water, including water from roof or cellar
drains, springs, basement sump pumps, and french drains.
      (5)   Vehicle wash water and other potentially contaminated or clean run
off or stormwater.
      (6)   Disposable products such as diapers, tampons, and similar
materials.
      (7)   Beauty shop waste other than a single chair beauty shop in
conjunction with a residential use.
      (8)   Abattoir or butcher shop waste.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 4)
§ 118. Proper Operation and Maintenance of Community Sewage Systems Required.
All persons who own a lot which is served by a community sewage system shall
properly use such community sewage system. The owner of the community sewage
system shall property maintain the community sewage system. Proper maintenance
of a community sewage system shall include at a minimum:
   A.   Inspection of the community sewage system by the Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer or by a sewage enforcement officer certified by the
Department on a bi-monthly basis. If the inspection is performed by a sewage
enforcement officer other than the Township Sewage Enforce-ment Officer, the
property owner shall submit the inspection report prepared and signed by the
Sewage Enforcement Officer to the Township within one (1) month after the date
of inspection of the community sewage system. All laboratory analyses required
to be submitted by the Department or the Department's regulations shall also be
submitted simultaneously to the Township to be reviewed as appropriate by the
Sewage Enforcement Officer or his designee.
   B.   Removal of septage or sludge in accordance with Department regulations
and manufacturer specifications.
   C.   Maintenance of surface contouring and other measures consis-tent with
the regulations of the Department to divert stormwater away from the treatment
facilities and absorption areas and to protect the absorption areas from
physical damage.
   D.   Following any operation and maintenance recommendations of the
manufacturer of the community sewage system.
   E.   Requiring that all users of the community sewage system discharge only
domestic sanitary sewage into the community sewage system. The owner of the
community sewage system shall inform all users of the community sewage system
that the types of waste described in §
117.D of this Part shall not be permitted to be discharged.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 119. Reporting of Malfunctioning OLDS or Community Sewage System.
Any person who owns a lot upon which an OLDS or community sewage system is
installed, any person who occupies a lot upon which an OLDS or community sewage
system is installed, any person who owns a community sewage system, and any
septage hauler pumping out or otherwise maintaining an OLDS or community sewage
system shall report any malfunctioning of such OLDS or community sewage system
to the Township. Such report shall be made as soon as possible but in no case
later than three (3) days after discovery of the malfunction.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 120. Duties of Sewage Enforcement Officer.
In addition to all other duties of the Sewage Enforcement Officer set forth in
this Part, the Sewage Enforcement Officer shall have the power and duty to
enforce the provisions of this Part and to investigate any reports of
malfunctioning OLDS and community sewage system or evidence that an OLDS or
community sewage system may be malfunctioning which the Sewage Enforcement
Officer discovers. In performing these duties the Sewage Enforcement Officer
shall have the following powers:
   A.   To conduct routine inspections of properties upon which OLDS or
community sewage systems are installed as part of an administrative program to
insure compliance with this Part. Any inspections shall be performed in
accordance with all applicable statutes and constitutional provisions.
   B.   To make reports as requested by the Board regarding mainte-nance of
OLDS and community sewage systems in the Township and to suggest actions which
may be taken by the Board to insure proper maintenance.
   C.   To consult with the Township Engineer and the Township Solicitor, as
authorized by the Board, to assist in the enforcement of this Part.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 121. Inspections.
The Sewage Enforcement Officer or the authorized agent may inspect any OLDS at
any reasonable time.
   A.   The inspection may include a physical tour of the property, the taking
of samples from surface water, wells, other ground water sources, the sampling
of the contents of the OLDS itself and/or the introduction of a traceable
substance into the interior plumbing of the structure or into the treatment
tank served to ascertain the path and ultimate destination of wastewater
generated in the structure.
   B.   The Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized agent shall have the right
to enter upon land for the purposes of inspections described above. In the
event that access to inspect the property is denied, the following steps shall
be taken:
      (1)   The Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized agent shall refer the
matter to the Board of Supervisors for action.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors may schedule a review at its next
scheduled meeting or, if the situation threatens the health and safety of the
residents of the Township, the Board of Supervi-sors may commence an immediate
procedure to obtain a search warrant from the magisterial district judge.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a search warrant to inspect the property, the
Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized agent shall be accompanied by an
officer of the Township or State Police, and the inspection shall be completed
in accordance with this subsection.
      (4)   The provisions of this subsection for obtaining a search warrant
may be waived only when the Board of Supervisors and the Sewage Enforcement
Officer or authorized agent have reason to believe that the OLDS is
malfunctioning or being operated improperly such that the situation poses an
immediate and substantial safety, water pollution, or health hazard.
   C.   The Board of Supervisors may establish a schedule of routine
inspections to assure the proper function of OLDS in the Township.
   D.   The Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized agent shall inspect OLDS
known to be, or alleged to be, malfunctioning. Should said inspections reveal
that the OLDS is malfunctioning, the Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized
agent shall take action to require the correction of the malfunction. If total
correction is not technically or financially feasible in the opinion of the
Sewage Enforcement Officer or authorized agent, action by the owner to mitigate
the malfunction of an OLDS be required.
   E.   Within seven (7) days of notification by the Sewage Enforce-ment
Officer that a malfunction has been identified, the owner shall make
application to the Sewage Enforcement Officer for a permit to repair or replace
the malfunctioning system. Within thirty (30) days of initial notification by
the Sewage Enforcement Officer, the owner shall commence construction of the
permitted repair or replacement. Within sixty (60) days of the original
notification by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, the owner shall complete
construction. Where seasonal or unique conditions may affect construction, the
Sewage Enforcement Officer may grant an extension of the deadline for commence-
ment or completion of construction.
   F.   The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to require the
repair of any malfunction by the following methods: cleaning, repair or
replacement of components of the existing OLDS; adding capacity or otherwise
altering or replacing the OLDS' treatment tank; expanding the existing disposal
area, replacing the existing disposal area, replacing a gravity distribution
OLDS with a pressurized OLDS, replacing the OLDS with a retaining tank; or
other alternatives as appropriate for the specific site.
   G.   In lieu of or in combination with the remedies described in paragraph
.F, the Sewage Enforcement Officer may require the installa-tion of water
conservation equipment and the institution of water conservation practices in
structures served. Water-using devices and appliances in the structure may be
required to be retrofitted with water-saving devices or they maybe required to
be replaced by water-conserving devices and appliances. Wastewater generation
in the structure may also be reduced by requiring changes in water usage
patterns in the structure served.
   H.   In the event that the rehabilitation measures in paragraphs .A through
.G are not feasible or do not prove effective, the Sewage Enforcement Officer
may require the owner to apply for a permit to construct a retaining tank in
accordance with the Township's ordinance and Department regulations. Upon
receipt of said permit, the owner shall complete construction of the retaining
tank within thirty (30) days.
   I.   Should none of the remedies described above provide totally effective
in eliminating the malfunction of an existing OLDS, the owner is not absolved
of responsibility for that malfunction. The Sewage Enforcement Officer may
require whatever action is necessary to lessen or mitigate the malfunction to
the extent that it feels necessary.
   J.   There may arise geographic areas within the Township where numerous on-
lot sewage disposal systems are malfunctioning. A resolu-tion of these area-
wide problems may necessitate detailed planning and a Township sponsored
revision to that area's Act 537 Official Sewage Facilities Plan. When a
Department authorized Official Sewage Facilities Plan Revision has been
undertaken by the Township, mandatory repair or replacement of individual
malfunctioning OLDS within the study area may be delayed, at the discretion of
the Township, pending the outcome of the plan revision process. However, the
Township may compel immediate corrective action whenever a malfunction, as
determined by Township officials and the Department, represents a serious
public health or environmental threat.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as added by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 5)
§ 122. Disposal of Septage.
   1.   All septage haulers operating within the Township shall be registered
with the Township through the Sewage Management Program Coordina-tor and shall
comply will all reporting requirements established by the Township.
   2.   All septage originating within the Township shall be disposed of at
sites or facilities approved by the Department. Approved sites or facilities
may include the following: septage treatment facilities, wastewater treatment
plants, composting sites, and approved farm lands.
   3.   Septage haulers operating within the Township shall operate in a manner
consistent with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act
(Act 97 of 1980, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101-6018.1003).
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as added by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 5)
§ 123. Administration.
   1.   The Township shall fully utilize those powers it possesses through
enabling statutes and ordinances to effect the purposes of this Part.
   2.   The Township may appoint those qualified to carry out the provisions of
this Part. The Township may also contract with others as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this Part.
   3.   All permits, records, reports, files and other written material
relating to the installation, operation and maintenance and malfunction of OLDS
shall become the property of the Township. Existing and future records shall be
available for public inspection during required business hours at the office of
the Sewage Management Program Coordinator or Sewage Enforcement Officer, as
applicable. All records pertaining to sewage permits, building permits,
occupancy permits and all other aspects of the Township's OLDS Management
Program shall be made available, upon request, for inspection by
representatives of the Department.
   4.   The Board of Supervisors or its designee may establish by resolution
all administrative procedures necessary to properly carry out the provisions of
this Part.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1; as added by Ord. 9-13-06-02, 9/13/2006, § 5)
§ 124. Violations and Penalties.
   1.   It shall be a violation of this Part to commit or permit any other
person to commit any of the following acts:
      A.   To install, repair, modify or alter an OLDS or a community sewage
system prior to obtaining a permit or in a manner which violates the terms and
conditions of any permit.
      B.   To misuse or fail to maintain an OLDS or a community sewage system.
      C.   To fail to report a malfunctioning OLDS or community sewage system.
      D.   To fail to remedy a malfunctioning OLDS or community sewage system.
      E.   To construct any improvements upon, grade, or take any other action
which will render a replacement location unsuitable for installa-tion of an
OLDS or community sewage system unless the Sewage Enforcement Officer has
approved an alternate replacement location in accordance with §§ 108 and 110 of
this Part.
      F.   To place false information on or omit relevant information from an
application for a permit.
      G.   To occupy or permit the occupancy of any structure served by an OLDS
for which a valid permit has not been obtained as required by this Part.
      H.   To occupy or permit the occupancy of any structure served by a
community sewage system for which a valid permit has not been obtained as
required by this Part.
      I.   To commence any soil fracturing operations or use of the terra lift
procedure without providing the Sewage Enforcement Officer with written
notification required pursuant to § 114 of this Part.
      J.   To fail to comply with any other provision of this Part.
   2.   Any person who violates or permits the violation of any provision of
this Part; or who shall use, maintain or alter an OLDS or community sewage
system in violation of any permit issued by the Sewage Enforcement Officer; or
who shall fail to remedy or who shall negligently or improperly remedy any
health hazard; or who shall fail to completely implement a plan to remedy a
health hazard which has been reviewed and approved by the Sewage Enforcement
Officer shall be liable upon summary conviction therefor to fines and penalties
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) plus all costs of prosecution, which fines and penalties
may be collected as provided by law. All fines and penalties collected for
violation of this Part shall be paid over to the Township Treasurer. Each day
that a violation continues and each Section of this Part which is violated
constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 125. Remedies.
In case any improvement is constructed or any lot maintained in violation of
this Part, or any OLDS or community sewage system is installed, repaired,
altered or modified prior to obtaining a permit as required by this Part or in
a manner which does not comply with such permit, or any OLDS or community
sewage system is not properly maintained or the malfunction of any OLDS or
community sewage system is not reported to the Township, in addition to the
other remedies provided by law, the Township may commence any appropriate
action or proceedings in equity to prevent such unlawful construction of
improvements or such unlawful maintenance of such lot or the continued use of
such OLDS or community sewage system. (Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 126. Declaration of Nuisance.
The following activities are hereby declared to be nuisances:
   A.   Construction of improvements on the replacement location. Such
construction renders the replacement location useless and therefore jeopardizes
the water quality and other natural resources of the Township. This harm to the
water quality and other natural resources of the Township is a danger to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Township and is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and abatable as such in accordance with the
provisions of the Second Class Township Code.
   B.   Installation, alteration or modification of an OLDS or community sewage
system without having obtained a permit as required by this Part and the
regulations of the Department, or, if a permit was obtained, in a manner which
violates the terms of the permit.
   C.   Failure to maintain an OLDS or community sewage system as required by
this Part.
All of these actions result in pollution of the waters of the Common-wealth and
other natural resources of the Township and constitute a danger to the health,
safety and welfare of Township residents. The actual expenses of the Township
in the abatement of such nuisances plus a penalty in the amount of twenty-five
(25%) percent of such expenses shall be filed as a municipal claim against the
property.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 127. Waiver of Liability.
Although this Part is intended to provide guidelines for the installation and
maintenance of OLDS and community sewage systems and the identification and
maintenance of a replacement location for OLDS, nothing contained herein shall
be interpreted as a guarantee or warranty to applicants or other Township
residents that systems installed under the provisions of this Part will
function as intended. The Township assumes no responsibility for the location
and/or maintenance of OLDS or community sewage systems within the Township.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 128. Appeals.
Appeals from any action of the Sewage Enforcement Officer under this Part shall
be made in writing to the Board of Supervisors within fifteen (15) days from
the date of the written determination of the Sewage Enforcement Officer. All
appeals shall be accompanied by the appeal fee established by resolution or
ordinance of the Board of Supervisors.
   A.   The written appeal shall specify the precise action from which the
appeal is taken and shall set forth in concise terms the reason for the appeal
and any legal authorities supporting the appeal period.
   B.   If the appellant desires a hearing before the Board, the appellant must
request a hearing in the written appeal.
   C.   If a hearing is requested in writing, the Board shall conduct the
hearing at a regular or special public meeting which occurs not less than
fourteen (14) days after receipt of the written appeal. The hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Local Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S.
§ 551 et seq.
   D.   The Board shall render a decision on the appeal in accordance with the
provisions of the Local Agency Law.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 129. Continuation of Prior Regulations.
Except as otherwise required by law, this Part is intended as a continuation
of, and not a repeal of, existing regulations governing the subject matter. To
the extent that this Part restates regulations contained in ordinances
previously enacted by the Board of Supervisors, this Part shall be considered a
restatement and not a repeal of such regulations. It is the specific intent of
the Board that all provisions of this Part shall be considered in full force
and effect as of the date such regulations were initially enacted.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
§ 130. Schedule of Fees.
   1.   The Lebanon County Planning Department is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to collect reasonable fees, in accord with an established fee
schedule, for work performed in the administration of the sewage enforcement
program for the municipality.
   2.   The fee schedule shall be as follows:
      A.   Mandatory:
         (1)   New Repair Permits - Sewage disposal application and permit/
inspection fee of fifty-five dollars ($55.00) for site investigation, site
testing, sewage system design review and sewage system installation inspection
    $55.00
      (To be paid at time of application, prior to site investigation.)
      Plus (when applicable)
      Supplemental Inspection Fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for all
alternate, experimental elevated sand mound or pressure dosed systems    
$25.00
      (To be paid prior to permit issuance.)
         (2)   Renewal Permits - Sewage disposal application and permit
inspection fee of forty dollars ($40.00) for renewal of expired permit
previously issued by the Lebanon County Planning Department     $40.00
      (To be paid at time of application)
         (3)   Any person aggrieved by an action of the Sewage Enforce-ment
Officer in granting or denying a permit, who requests a hearing before the
local agency, shall accompany said request with a check for $100.00, to defray
the cost of said hearing.
      B.   Mandatory for Modules: Plan revision module submission shall be
accompanied by a fee sufficient to cover review expenses, in accordance with
the following schedule:
         (1)   Ten (10) lots or less    $20.00
         (2)   More than ten (10) lots    $20.00 plus $1.00 for each lot in
excess of 10 lots.
      C.   Optional, As Needed:
         (1)   Percolation testing and test hole boring fee of two hundred
dollars     $200.00
         (2)   Percolation testing (holes exist) fee of one hundred dollars    
$100.00
         (3)   Investigation and reporting fee of fifteen dollars per hour, for
work performed beyond the scope of routine examination and investigation    
$15.00
   3.    The Board of Supervisors may revise the fees for the administration of
this Part at any time by ordinance or by resolution.
(Ord. 2-9-05, 2/9/2005, § 1)
Part 2
Holding Tanks
§ 201. Title.
This Part shall be known as the "South Annville Township Holding Tank
Ordinance."
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 202. Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to establish procedures for the use and maintenance
of existing and new holding tanks designed to receive and retain sewage,
whether from residential or commercial uses, and it is hereby declared that the
enactment of this Part is necessary for the protection, benefit and
preservation of the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
Township of South Annville.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 203. Definitions.
Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this Part shall be as follows:
   APPLICANT - any person who filed an application with the Township for
approval to install a holding tank.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS - the Board of Supervisors of the Township of South
Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
   DEPARTMENT - the Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania or any agency successor thereto.
   HOLDING TANK - a watertight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary,
which receives and retains sewage and is designed and constructed to facilitate
the ultimate disposal of the sewage at another site. The term "holding tank" as
used in this Part shall include the terms "privy," "chemical toilet,"
"retaining tank" and "holding tank" as those terms are defined and used in the
Department's regulations.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY - any property within the Township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   OWNER - any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the Township.
   PERSON - any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation,
trust, or other group or entity.
   SEWAGE - any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation or any substance which constitutes pollution under the Clean Streams
Law, 35 P.S. § 691.1 et seq.
   SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - the Sewage Enforcement Officer of the Township.
   TOWNSHIP - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania. The
term "Township" shall be interpreted to include a contractor or other designee
of the Township.
   WATER UNDER PRESSURE - water service provided to an improved property by
means of a system of plumbing or piping with the water being supplied by a
public water system, private well, or private spring.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 204. Rights and Privileges Granted.
The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized and empowered to undertake within
the Township the control and methods of holding tank use, sewage disposal, and
sewage collection and transportation thereof.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 205. Rules, Regulations and Agreements.
The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt by
resolution such rules and regulations concerning sewage and to enter into such
agreements as it may deem necessary from time to time to effect the purposes
herein.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 206. Rules, Regulations to Be in Conformity with Applicable Law.
All such rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Supervisors shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the Township,
all other applicable laws, and applicable rules and regulations of
administrative agencies of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Board of
Supervisors hereby adopts the regulations of the Department found in Title 25,
Chapters 71 and 73, of the Pennsylvania Code governing retaining tanks as the
regulations governing the design, installation, and use of holding tanks within
the Township.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 207. Rates and Charges.
The Board of Supervisors shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge
and collect rates, assessments, and other charges relating to the use and
maintenance of holding tanks at reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by
applicable law.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 208. Exclusiveness of Rights and Privileges.
The collection and transportation of all sewage from any holding tank shall be
done solely by or under the direction and control of the Board of Supervisors,
and the disposal thereof shall be made only at such site or sites as may be
approved by the Department.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 209. Conditions of Holding Tank Use.
All applicants who desire to install a holding tank shall meet all of the
following requirements:
   A.   A holding tank may be installed on a lot only if one of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   To replace an existing malfunctioning on-lot sewage disposal system
where there is insufficient suitable area for a repair or replacement of the
sewage system.
      (2)   If the lot is located within an area designated for public sewer
service and where public sewer service will be available within one (1) year or
less after the date of application to the Township to authorize installation of
the holding tank.
      (3)   To serve a lot where water under pressure is not presently
available on the improved property if applicant meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Site and soil suitability testing of the lot has been conducted
by the Sewage Enforcement Officer and the site meets the requirements of Title
25, Chapter 73, Standards for On-Lot Sewage Treatment Facilities, of the
Pennsylvania Code, for the ultimate sewage disposal by an approved on-lot
system if water under pressure or piped waste water becomes available to the
improved property.
         (b)   At such time that water under pressure becomes available, the
owner shall remove the holding tank and replace the holding tank with an
approved on-lot system.
      (4)   To serve a lot where water under pressure does not exist where the
lot is an isolated lot which is one (1) acre or larger and is not nor will not
be served by water under pressure in the future.
      (5)   To temporary use of portable retention tanks where their use is
proposed at construction sites or at the site of public gatherings and
entertainment.
      (6)   To such other temporary or permanent uses of holding tanks as may
be authorized by the Department.
   B.   The record owner of the lot on which the holding tank other than a
temporary use holding tank is to be installed and, if different, the applicant,
shall enter into an agreement with the Township, in recordable form, providing
for the long-term maintenance of the holding tank which grants the Township the
right to enter upon the property; to inspect such holding tank not less than
once each year and, in addition, whenever the Township receives a complaint or
otherwise has reason to believe that such holding tank is not functioning
properly; to maintain the holding tank if the landowner fails to do so; and to
recover the cost of any maintenance performed plus a penalty of twenty-five
(25%) percent of such cost from the landowner. The agreement shall specifi-
cally authorize the Township to file a municipal claim against the property to
recover costs, penalties and fees and shall specifically state that its
provisions are binding upon the landowner executing the agreement and upon all
successive owners of the property until the holding tank is removed and the
improved property is either connected to a public sewer system owned and
operated by a governmental entity if water under pressure currently exists on
the improved property or connected to an on-lot sewage disposal system if water
under pressure is not currently available on the improved property.
   C.   The applicant shall post financial security with the Township to secure
the future maintenance of the holding tank and payment of costs of annual
inspection of such system. The amount of the financial security shall be based
upon the estimated cost to maintain the particular holding tank chosen by the
applicant. The financial security shall be posted through an irrevocable letter
of credit in a form acceptable to the Township Solicitor or in a cash escrow
which the Township shall maintain in a non-interest bearing account. The
Township shall not release such financial security until one (1) or more of the
following conditions occur:
      (1)   The owner provides the Township with acceptable alterna-tive
financial security.
      (2)   If the holding tank serves an improved property which was provided
with water under pressure at the time of holding tank installation, the owner
removes the holding tank, and the improved property is connected to a public
sewer system owned and operated by a governmental entity.
      (3)   If the holding tank serves an improved property which did not have
water under pressure at the time of holding tank installa-tion, the owner
installs water under pressure, removes the holding tank, and connects the
improved property to an approved on-lot sewage disposal system.
      (4)   If the owner removes a holding tank from land which is not an
improved property (i.e., removes a holding tank installed on a temporary basis
to serve a public gathering, construction site, etc.).
   D.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Township that the proposed
holding tank meets all applicable Department regulations and that the applicant
has obtained all necessary approvals and permits.
   E.   Special conditions for holding tanks shall be incorporated in the
permit application and permit for the proposed use of a holding tank.
   F.   The applicant shall reimburse the Township for all costs incurred in
the preparation of the agreement and its recording.
   G.   The applicant shall pay all costs associated with the yearly inspection
of the holding tank.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 210. Duties of Improved Property Owner.
The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   A.   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this or any ordinance of
this Township, the provisions of any applicable law, and the rules and
regulations of the Township and any administrative agency of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania including, but not limited to, §§ 71.63 and 73.61 et seq. of
the Department's regulations.
      (1)   Proof of Maintenance. Each time that a holding tank is pumped out
or emptied, the private sewage waste hauler who performs the service shall
provide to the owner a signed receipt and shall retain a signed receipt
containing the following information:
         (a)   Date of pumping out.
         (b)   Name and address of owner.
         (c)   Description and diagram of location of holding tank, including
location of any markers and/or access hatches (if known).
         (d)   Size of holding tank.
         (e)   Age of the holding tank (if known).
         (f)   Last date of pump out (if known).
         (g)   Any maintenance performed in connection with pumping out of the
holding tank.
         (h)   Any indication of system malfunction observed.
         (i)   Amount of sewage, septage or other solid or semi-solid material
removed.
         (j)    Cost of service.
         (k)    Waste hauler's state license number permitting him to collect
and haul septage in this Commonwealth.
The owner and the waste hauler shall provide the receipt to authorized
officials of the Township. The receipt shall serve as proof of compliance with
the maintenance requirements of this Part. Failure to provide a copy of the
receipt within thirty (30) days after the holding tank is pumped out or emptied
shall constitute a violation of this Part. The Township is designated in
accordance with the Department's regulations as the administrative agency to
receive, review and retain pumping receipts from permitted holding tanks.
      (2)   Inspections. Annually or where any agreement entered into between
the Township and the owner or a predecessor in title of the landowner requires
more frequent inspections of a holding tank, the owner shall permit the
Township Sewage Enforcement Officer to enter upon the improved property to
conduct the required inspection. The Township Sewage Enforcement Officer shall
conduct inspections of all permitted holding tanks at least annually and
complete a written inspection report which shall be submitted to and be
retained by the Township. The owner shall pay all fees associated with all
required inspections.
   B.   If either water under pressure becomes available to the improved
property or public sewer service becomes available to the improved property,
abandon the holding tank consistent with applicable public health and
environmental standards.
   C.   Permit the Township to enter upon lands to inspect the holding tank for
proper operation, maintenance and contents disposal.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 211. Malfunctioning Holding Tank.
The owner of a lot upon which a holding tank is installed, any person who
occupies a lot upon which a holding tank is installed, any person who owns a
holding tank, and any sewer waste hauler pumping out or otherwise maintaining a
holding tank shall report any malfunctioning of a holding tank to the Township.
Such report shall be made as soon as possible but in no case later than three
(3) days after discovery of the malfunction.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 212. Violations and Penalties.
   1.   It shall be a violation of this Part to commit or permit any other
person to commit any of the following acts:
      A.   To install, repair, modify or alter a holding tank prior to
obtaining a permit or in a manner which violates the terms and condi-tions of
any permit.
      B.   To misuse or to fail to maintain a holding tank or to fail to
provide reports of maintenance as required by this Part.
      C.   To fail to have the holding tank inspected as required by this Part
or to fail to permit the Township Sewage Enforcement Officer to inspect the
holding tank.
      D.   To fail to report a malfunctioning holding tank.
      E.   To fail to remedy a malfunctioning holding tank.
      F.   To place false information on or omit relevant information from an
application for a permit or from a report of inspection or maintenance of a
holding tank.
      G.   To occupy or permit the occupancy of any structure served by a
holding tank for which a valid permit has not been obtained as required by this
Part.
      H.   To fail to comply with any other provision of this Part.
   2.   Any person who shall violate a provision of this Part or who shall fail
to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall permit the
violation of this Part or who shall use or occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or structure which is served by a holding tank which
has not been installed or maintained in accordance with the require-ments of
this Part, shall, upon being found guilty in an enforcement proceeding
commenced by the Township, pay a fine of not less than two hundred ($200.00)
dollars and not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars for each violation
plus all costs of prosecution, which fines and costs may be collected as
provided by law. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense, and each Section of this Part which is violated shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
§ 213. Abatement of Nuisances.
In addition to any other remedies provided in this Part, any violation of this
Part shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the Township by either
seeking appropriate equitable or legal relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 11905, 11/9/2005, § 1)
Part 3
Connections to Public Sewer System
§ 301. Short Title.
This Part shall be known as the "South Annville Township Mandatory Sewer
Connection Ordinance."
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 302. Definitions.
Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms and phrases used in this Part shall be as follows:
   AUTHORITY - South Annville Township, Lebanon County, Authority, a municipal
authority of the Commonwealth.
   BUILDING SEWER - the extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   COMMONWEALTH - the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY - any property within this Township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sanitary sewage and/
or industrial wastes shall be or may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT - any improved property located within this
Township and used or intended for use, wholly or in part, for the
manufacturing, processing, cleaning, laundering or assembling of any product,
commodity or article, or any other improved property located within this
Township, from which wastes, in addition to or other than sanitary sewage shall
be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE - any and all wastes discharged from and industrial
establishment, other than sanitary sewage.
   LATERAL - that part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the
curbline or, if there shall be no curbline, to the property line or, if no such
lateral shall be provided, then "lateral" shall mean that portion of, or place
in, a sewer which is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   OWNER - any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON - any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation, municipality, municipality authority or other group or entity, and
the members of such partnership or associa-tion and the officers of such
corporation.
   SANITARY SEWAGE - normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property excluding, however, the effluent from septic tanks or
cesspools, rain, storm and ground water, as well as roof or surface water,
drainage or percolating or seeping waters, or accumula-tion thereof, whether
underground or in cellars or basements.
   SEWER - any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM - all facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transmitting, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes, situate in or adjacent to this Township and owned by the
Authority.
   STREET - any street, road, lane, court, cul-de-sac, alley, public way or
public square.
   TOWNSHIP - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania, a
municipal subdivision of the Commonwealth, acting by and through its Board of
Supervisors or, in appropriate cases, acting by and through its authorized
representatives.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 303. Use of Public Sewer Required.
   1.   The owner of any improved property adjoining or adjacent to or whose
principal building is within one hundred fifty (150) feet from the sewer system
shall connect such improved property with and shall use such sewer system, in
such manner as this Township may require, within sixty (60) days after notice
to such owner from this Township to make such connection, for the purpose of
discharge of all sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from such improved
property; subject, however, to such limitations and restrictions as shall be
established herein or otherwise shall be established by this Township, from
time to time.
   2.   All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property,
after connection of such improved property with a sewer shall be required under
subsection .1, above, shall be conducted into a sewer; subject, however, to
such limitations and restrictions as shall be estab-lished herein or otherwise
shall be established by this Township or the Authority, from time to time.
   3.   No person shall place, shall deposit or shall permit to be placed or to
be deposited upon public or private property within this Township any sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes in violation of subsection .1, above. No person
shall discharge or shall permit to be discharged to any natural outlet within
this Township any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in violation of
subsection .1, above, except where suitable treatment has been provided which
is satisfactory to this Township.
   4.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, holding tank, septic tank or
similar receptacle shall be used or shall be maintained at any time upon any
improved property which has been connected to a sewer or which shall be
required under subsection .1, above, to be connected to a sewer. Every such
privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, holding tank, septic tank or similar
receptacle in existence shall be abandoned and, at the discretion of this
Township, shall be cleansed and shall be filled, at the expense of the owner of
such improved property, under the direction and supervision of this Township;
and any such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, holding tank, septic tank or
similar receptacle not so abandoned and, if required by this Township, not
cleansed and filled, shall constitute a nuisance, and such nuisance may be
abated, as provided by law, at the expense of the owner of such improved
property.
   5.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
at any time shall be connected with a sewer.
   6.   The notice by this Township to make a connection to a sewer, referred
to in subsection .1, above, shall consist of a copy of this Part, including any
amendments and/or supplements at the time in effect, or a summary of each
section hereof, and a written or printed document requiring the connection in
accordance with the provisions of this Part and specifying that such connection
shall be made within sixty (60) days after the date such notice is given or
served. Such notice may be given or served at any time after a sewer is in
place which can receive and can convey sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
for treatment and disposal from the particular improved property. Such notice
shall be given or served upon the owner in accordance with law.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 304. Building Sewers and Connections.
   1.   No person shall uncover, shall connect with, shall make any opening
into or shall use, shall alter or shall disturb, in any manner, any sewer or
any part of the sewer system without first obtaining a permit, in writing, from
the Authority.
   2.   Application for a permit required under subsection .1, above, shall be
made by the owner of the improved property served to or to be served or by the
duly authorized agent of such owner.
   3.   No person shall make or shall cause to be made a connection of any
improved property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of
the following conditions:
      A.   Such person shall have notified the Authority of the desire and
intention to connect such improved property to a sewer.
      B.   Such person shall have applied for and shall have obtained a permit
as required by paragraph .A, above.
      C.   Such person shall have given the Authority at least twenty-four (24)
hours notice of the time when such connection will be made so that the
Authority may supervise and inspect, or may cause to be supervised and
inspected, the work of connection and necessary testing.
      D.   If applicable, such person shall have furnished satisfactory
evidence to the Authority that any tapping, connection, customer facilities,
administrative and inspection fees, as applicable, which may be charged and
imposed by the Authority against the owner of each improved property who
connects such improved property to a sewer has been paid.
   4.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, each improved property
shall be connected separately and independently with a sewer through a building
sewer. Grouping of more than one improved property on one building sewer shall
not be permitted, except under special circumstances and for good sanitary
reasons or other good cause shown, but then only after special permission of
the Authority, in writing, shall have been secured and only subject to such
rules, regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by the Authority.
   5.   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and save harmless this Township and the Authority from all loss or
damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of
construction of a building sewer to a sewer.
   6.   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by the Authority and where, if applicable, the lateral is provided. The invert
of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or a higher
elevation than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and
the connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall be made secure and
watertight.
   7.   If the owner of any improved property located within this Township and
adjoining or adjacent to or whose principal building is within one hundred
fifty (150) feet from the sewer system, after sixty (60) days notice from this
Township, in accordance with §
303.1, shall fail to connect such improved property, as required, this Township
may enter upon such improved property and construct such connection and may
collect from such owner the costs and expenses thereof in the manner permitted
by law.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 305. Rules and Regulations.
   1.   Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sewer is
required, shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or sewage disposal
device, the existing house sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of
such sewage disposal system or sewage disposal device and attachment shall be
made, with proper fittings, to continue such house sewer line as a building
sewer. Every connection to the sewer system shall comply with all applicable
rules and regulations of the Authority.
   2.   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by the Authority. If any part of a building sewer is covered before so
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection, at the cost
and expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a sewer.
   3.   Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
   4.   Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Any
street, sidewalk and other public property disturbed in the course of
installation of a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of
the owner of the improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to
this Township.
   5.   If any person shall fail or shall refuse, upon receipt of a notice of
this Township or the Authority, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory
condition with respect to a building sewer within sixty (60) days of receipt of
such notice, this Township or the Authority may refuse to permit such person to
discharge sanitary sewage and industrial wastes into the sewer system until
such unsatisfactory condition shall have been remedied to the satisfaction of
this Township and the Authority.
   6.   This Township reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with a sewer and with the sewer system, which additional rules
and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as
part of this Part.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 306. Prohibited Discharges.
   1.   No person shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater to the sewer system. These general
prohibitions apply to all users of the sewer system, whether or not the user is
subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other Federal,
State or local pretreatment standards or requirements. No person shall
discharge any substance into or take action contrary to any industrial waste
pretreatment ordinance enacted by this Township or resolution adopted by the
Authority.
   2.   When the Township and/or the Authority determines that a person is
contributing to the sewer system any prohibited substances in such amounts as
to interfere with the operation of the sewer system, the Authority shall advise
such person of the impact of the contribution on the sewer system, and such
person shall take necessary action to eliminate the interference.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 307. Violations and Penalties.
For each violation of the provisions of this Part, the owner, agent, lessee or
contractor or any other person who commits, takes part in or assists in any
such violation shall be liable upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding
to pay a fine of not less than two hundred ($200.00) dollars nor more than one
thousand ($1,000.00) dollars for each offense, together with the costs of
prosecution. Each day or portion thereof in which a violation exists shall be
considered a separate violation of this Part, and each section of this Part
which is violated shall be considered a separate violation. In default of
payment of such fine, such person shall be liable to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
§ 308. Purpose.
It is declared that enactment of this Part is necessary for the protection,
benefit and preservation of the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of
this Township.
(Ord. 11-10-10-1, 11/10/2010, § 1)
CHAPTER 19
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
See
Chapter 27, Zoning, for sign and billboard regulations
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 20
SOLID WASTE
Part 1
Collection and Disposal
   §
101.   Intent
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Prohibited Acts
   §
104.   Authority to Designate Location of Landfills
   §
105.   Substances and Conditions Requiring Special Treatment/Exceptions
   §
106.   Collection Practices
   §
107.   Contractors Name to be Displayed on Vehicle
   §
108.   Penalties
Part 2
Animal Waste Storage
   §
201.   Short Title
   §
202.   Definitions
   §
203.   Permit
   §
204.   Permit Fee
   §
205.   Permit Issuance
   §
206.   Regulations
   §
207.   Application Form
   §
208.   Cease and Desist Order
   §
209.   Penalties
   §
210.   Injunctive Relief
   §
211.   Severability
Part 3
Recycling
   §
301.   Purpose
   §
302.   Title
   §
303.   Definitions
   §
304.   Establishment of Program
   §
305.   Collection by Unauthorized Persons
   §
306.   Administration
   §
307.   Enforcement
   §
308.   Franchise or License
   §
309.   Alternative Collection of Recyclable Material
   §
310.   Dispose of Recyclable Material
   §
311.   Violations and Penalties
   §
312.   Effective Date
Part 1
Collection and Disposal
§ 101. Intent.
It is the purpose and intention of this Part enacted under the police power of
the Township of South Annville to regulate and control the collection, removal
and disposal of ashes, garbage, rubbish and other refuse materials in a
compulsory and universal manner in order to maintain, provide for and protect
the health, safety and sanitation of the inhabitants of this Township by the
use of the facilities of the Greater Lebanon Refuse Authority.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 1)
§ 102. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this Part shall have the
meaning hereinafter ascribed to them, except when the context clearly indicates
a different meaning:
   ASHES - the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible materials.
   AUTHORITY - the Greater Lebanon Refuse Authority.
   GARBAGE - all table refuse, animal and vegetable matter, offal from meat,
fish and fowls, fruits, vegetables and parts thereof, and other articles and
materials ordinarily used for food which have become unfit for such use or
which are for any reason discarded.
   PERSON - every natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, associ-ation,
or institution, but shall not include municipalities forming the Greater
Lebanon Refuse Authority.
   REFUSE - all matter and materials which are discarded or rejected by the
owners or producers thereof as offensive or useless, or which by their presence
or accumulation may injuriously affect the health, comfort and safety of the
community; it shall include ashes, garbage, rubbish and other refuse materials,
but exclude human body waste.
   RUBBISH - leaves, branches, trees, sawdust, chips, shavings, wood,
woodenware, paper, printed matter, boxes, leather, rags, grass, straw, manure
and all solid combustible matter not included in this section under the term
"garbage".
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 2)
§ 103. Prohibited Acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, dump, spill, throw, place or
bury or permit another to deposit, dump, spill, throw, place or bury in or upon
any parcel of land, lot, street, highway, gutter or in any alley or in any
water or stream, or in any quarry or ditch within the limits of the Township of
South Annville, except as provided for in §
104, any ashes, garbage, rubbish and other refuse materials; provided however,
that this prohibition shall not apply in the following situations:
   1.   Refuse disposed of on premises owned or leased by the producer of the
refuse, provided it is done in a safe, sanitary and nuisance-free manner and in
compliance with applicable ordinances;
   2.   Garbage collected under an existing contract with any municipality
which has joined in the formation of the Authority;
   3.   Manure, fertilizer and refuse used as fertilizer in farming or
gardening;
   4.   Solid wastes generated by or resulting from industrial plants or
operations;
   5.   Dead household pets interred in places set apart for that purpose;
   6.   Soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam, ashes, slate, stones, bricks,
plaster, cement, leaves, branches, trees, sawdust, chips, shavings, wood,
grass, straw and corn fodder when used as fill, provided it is done in a safe,
sanitary and nuisance-free manner.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 3)
§ 104. Authority to Designate Location of Landfills.
The Authority, with the approval and permission of the municipality concerned,
shall designate from time to time the place or places where it will carry on a
sanitary landfill operation and all persons may transport or have another
transport their ashes, garbage, rubbish and other refuse materials to one of
said designated places where said refuse shall be disposed of in accor-dance
with the rules and regulations of said Authority.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 4)
§ 105. Substances and Conditions Requiring Special Treatment/Exceptions.
The following refuse shall not be disposed of in accordance with §
104:
   1.   Dangerous materials or substances such as poisons, acids, caustics,
infected or highly inflammable materials and explosives, unless prior notice
has been given to and permission granted by the Authority in accordance with
its rules and regulations;
   2.   Unusual quantities of materials resulting from the repair, demolition,
excavation or construction of buildings or structures such as earth, plaster,
mortar, cement and roofing material, unless prior notice has been given to and
permission granted by the Authority in accordance with its rules and
regulations;
   3.   Nonputrescible fluids in large quantities such as oil, grease, sludge,
brime, and the like, unless prior notice has been given to and permission
granted by the Authority in accordance with its rules and regulations;
   4.   Materials which have not been prepared for disposal in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the Authority;
   5.   Abandoned large machinery or vehicles;
   6.   Dead animals exceeding seventy-five (75) pounds each in weight.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 5)
§ 106. Collection Practices.
   1.   Licensing of Collectors -
      A.   No person except an authorized collector shall collect garbage from
any other person for conveyance through the Township, nor shall any person
except such authorized collector haul any refuse for any other person from any
point within the Township limits of any place or location outside the Township
limits.
      B.   An authorized collector is one who has been granted a license by the
Supervisors for the specific purpose of collection and disposing of garbage and
refuse.
      C.   The fee for such license shall be two dollars ($2.00) per year and
all licenses shall be issued by the Supervisors.
      D.   No licensed collector shall dispose of any garbage or refuse
collected in the Township except by conveyance to the place of disposal as
prescribed herein.
      E.   Failure of licensed collectors to comply with provisions of this
Part shall result in having said permits revoked.
      F.   No person shall permit any unlicensed collector to take any garbage
from premises occupied by him.
   2.   Collection Vehicles -
      A.   All vehicles used for the collection or disposal of refuse shall
have enclosed bodies or shall have the body covered with a tarpaulin or canvas
cover.
      B.   All vehicles used for the collection or disposal of garbage, or of
refuse containing garbage, shall have water-tight, metal or metal lined bodies
or easily cleanable construction, shall be cleaned at sufficient frequency to
prevent nuisance or insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 6)
§ 107. Contractors Name to be Displayed on Vehicle.
The name of the owner of the vehicle shall be displayed in a prominent and
legible manner on both sides of all vehicles used principally for
transportation of ashes, garbage, rubbish and other refuse materials in this
Township.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 7)
§ 108. Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part 1
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) or not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00); and/or to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days. Every day that a
violation of this Part 1 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 11/3/1959, § 8; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 2
Animal Waste Storage
§ 201. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as "South Annville Township Animal
Waste Ordinance."
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 1)
§ 202. Definitions.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and phrases shall be
construed throughout this Part to have the meanings herein indicated.
   ANIMAL WASTE STORAGE FACILITY - A structure built to store manure for future
use. Types of animal waste facilities are as followes: underground storage,
inground storage, trench silo, earthen bank, stacking area, and above-ground
storage.
   MANURE - The fecal and urinary defecations of livestock and poultry, often
containing some spilled feed, bedding or litter.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 2)
§ 203. Permit.
No person shall erect or construct an animal waste storage facility without
obtaining a permit from the Board of Supervisors of South Annville.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 3)
§ 204. Permit Fee.
The permit fee shall be Five dollars ($5.00), payable at the time of the permit
application.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 4)
§ 205. Permit Issuance.
   1.   A permit shall be issued by the Board of Supervisors of South Annville
Township after a determination that the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of South Annville Township will not be adversely affected by the
proposed construction and operation and after receipt by the Board of
Supervisors of the following:
      A.   Completed application for permit upon a form provided by the
Township;
      B.   The permit fee; and
      C.   Letter from the Lebanon County Conservation District stating that
the applicant's animal waste storage facility design has been reviewed and
approved by the Lebanon County Conservation District and that all regulations
and requirements of this Part have been satisfied.
   2.   Failure to meet the criteria set forth in this Part shall result in
disapproval of the application for permit. In the event of such disapproval the
Board of Supervisors shall give notice thereof to the applicant in writing,
which shall include the specific reasons for the disapproval.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 5)
§ 206. Regulations.
Every person installing, erecting or constructing an animal waste storage
facility and the owner of the land where the animal waste storage facility and
the owner of the land where the animal waste storage facility is placed shall
be responsible for satisfying the requirements of the following regulations.
   1.   Animal waste storage facilities shall be designed in compliance with
the guidelines outlined in the publication Manure Management for Environmental
protection, Bureau of Water Quality Management publication No. 43, revisions,
supplements, and successors thereto, of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Resources copies of which are available at the Lebanon County
Conservation District Office.
   2.   Animal waste storage facility designs shall be reviewed by the Lebanon
County Conservation District. The applicant and the Board of Supervisors of
South Annville Township shall receive, by letter, design approval from the
Lebanon County Conservation District prior to permit issuance.
   3.   Construction and subsequent operation of the animal waste storage
facility shall be in accordance with permit and the approved design. The
Lebanon County Conservation District must be notified the day construction
begins for proper supervision of construction. Any design changes during
construction or subsequent operation must be approved in writing by the Lebanon
County Conservation District.
   4.   No animal waste storage facility, as defined in §
202 hereof, shall be placed or located within two hundred (200) feet of any
adjoining property or within two hundred (200) feet of any public road.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 6)
§ 207. Application Form.
The Board of Supervisors of South Annville Township shall adopt by Resolution
the application form to be used by applicants for permits hereunder.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 7)
§ 208. Cease and Desist Order.
Any person who violates the provisions of this Part shall be informed of such
violation by a written Cease and Desist Order for the Board of Supervisors of
South Annville Township, ordering the violator thereof to cease and desist such
violations within twenty-four (24) hours.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 8)
§ 209. Penalties.
Any person who continues to violate the provisions of this Part beyond twenty-
four (24) hours after receipt of a Cease and Desist Order pursuant to § 208
above, shall, upon conviction thereof, in a summary proceeding, be sentenced to
apy a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and the costs of
prosecution. Each additional day's violation of any of the provisions of this
Part shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 9)
§ 210. Injunctive Relief.
In addition to or in lieu of the penalties provided in § 209, continued
violations of this Part may be abated by the Township proceeding against the
violator in a court of equity to obtain injunctive relief.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 10)
§ 211. Severability.
If any section of this Part or part thereof shall be found to be invalid for
any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of the Part as a whole,
or any Part thereof other than the sections so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 12/11/1986, § 11)
Part 3
Recycling
§ 301. Purpose.
   1.   Act 100 of 1988, an Act of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, entitled
"The Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste Reduction Act," encourages
municipalities which do not meet the size requirements for mandatory recycling
to enter into recycling and solid waste management on a voluntary basis.
   2.   It is the desire of the South Annville Township Board of Super-visors
to establish, in conjunction with neighboring municipalities, a substantial
solid waste recycling and solid waste management and reduction program within
the Township to better utilize existing and future solid waste disposal
facilities and to work toward a more productive and environ-mentally sound
method of solid waste management.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, § 1)
§ 302. Title.
The short title of this Part shall be the "South Annville Township Recycling
Ordinance," and the same may be cited in that manner.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, § 11)
§ 303. Definitions.
The following words, when used in this Part, shall have the following
definitions:
   ALUMINUM CANS - empty, all aluminum beverage and food containers.
   BI-METAL CONTAINERS - empty food or beverage containers consisting of a
combination of ferrous metals and aluminum; i.e., ferrous sides and aluminum
top and/or bottom.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT - properties used primarily for commercial and or
industrial purposes, and those multiple dwelling residential build-ings
containing more than four (4) dwelling units.
   FARMERS - individuals who engage in the commercial agriculture for profit
including chicken, pig, and cattle farming.
   FERROUS CONTAINERS - empty steel or tin food or beverage containers.
   GLASS CONTAINERS - bottles and jars made of clear, green or brown glass.
Expressly excluded are non-container glass, plate glass, blue glass and
porcelain and ceramic products.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS - facilities that house or serve groups of
people, I.e., hospitals, schools, nursing homes, group homes, etc.
   MAGAZINES and PERIODICALS - printed matter containing miscellaneous written
pieces published at fixed or varying intervals. Expressly exclu-ded, however,
are all other paper products of any nature whatsoever.
   NEWSPAPERS - paper of the type commonly referred to as newsprint. Expressly
excluded are newspapers that have been soiled, or are on colored paper.
   PERSON(S) - owners, lessees and occupants of residents, commercial or
Institutional establishments.
   PLASTIC CONTAINERS - empty plastic food and beverage containers.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS - materials specified from time to time in the rules
and regulations for recycling.
   RESIDENCE - any occupied single family or multi-family dwelling having up to
four (4) dwelling units per structure.
   SOLID WASTE - all refuse (garbage and rubbish) and other discarded solid
material normally collected by municipal or private haulers.
   YARD WASTE - prunings, grass clippings, weeds, leaves and garden wastes.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, § 111)
§ 304. Establishment of Program.
There is hereby established a program for the mandatory recycling of certain
specified solid waste by all persons within South Annville Township,
hereinafter referred to as the Township, with the exception of farmers, and
commercial establishments. Said recyclable materials shall be set forth in
rules and regulations to be promulgated and amended, from time to time, by
resolution of the Township.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §IV)
§ 305. Collection by Unauthorized Persons.
It shall be a violation of this Part for any person(s) unauthorized by the
Township to collect or pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any such
recyclable. Each such collection in violation hereof shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §V)
§ 306. Administration.
The Township, with the advice of the Solid Waste Management Advisory Committee,
shall establish and promulgate reason-able regulations as to the manner, days
and times for the collection of recyclable materials in accordance with the
terms hereof, and any other matters required to implement this Part. The
Township may change, modify, repeal or amend any portion of said rules and
regulations at any time.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §VI)
§ 307. Enforcement.
The South Annville Township Code Enforcement Officer is hereby charged with the
enforcement of this Part and the rules and regulations promulgated from time to
time.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §VII)
§ 308. Franchise or License.
The Township may enter into agreements with public or private agencies or firms
to authorize them to collect all or part of the recyclable materials from the
Township.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §VIII)
§ 309. Alternative Collection or Recyclable Material.
Any person may donate or sell recyclable materials to individuals or
organizations author-ized by the Township in its recycling regulations. These
materials must either be delivered to the individual's or organization's site
or they may be placed at the curb for collection by such individual or
organization on days not designated as recyclable material collection days by
the Township.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §IX)
§ 310. Disposal of Recyclable Material.
Recyclable material removed from the Township shall be processed at an approved
processing facility, and may not be discarded in the Greater Lebanon Refuse
Authority Landfill unless specifically approved, in writing, by the Greater
Lebanon Refuse Authority. The Township shall be notified, in writing, of every
such incident.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §X)
§ 311. Violations and Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who shall violate or shall fail
to comply with any of the provisions of this Part or any rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant hereto shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay
a fine of not more than six hundred ($600.00) dollars and costs of prosecution
and, in default of payment of the fine or penalty imposed and the costs, to
imprisonment in the county jail for period not exceeding thirty (30) days;
provided, that each day's continuance of a violation or failure to comply with
any provisions of this Part or any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant
hereto shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §XI)
§ 312. Effective Date.
The Part shall be effective on the date of enactment of the resolution
establishing rules and regulations authorized hereunder, but in no case less
than five (5) days from the date of enact-ment of this Part.
(Ord. 91-1109-2, 11/9/1991, §XIV)
CHAPTER 21
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Part 1
Street Excavations
   §
101.   Excavations Require Permits
   §
102.   Applications
   §
103.   Permit Issuance
   §
104.   Notice of Completion of Work
   §
105.   Inspection; Rectification of Defects
   §
106.   Penalties
Part 2
Driveways
   §
201.   Short Title
   §
202.   Definitions and Word Usage
   §
203.   Permit Required
   §
204.   Design Requirements
   §
205.   Application Procedure
   §
206.   Payment of Fees
   §
207.   Relationship to Zoning Permit
   §
208.   Installation or Repair of Driveway
   §
209.   Permit Required for All Driveways
   §
210.   Minimum Requirements
   §
211.   Waiver of Liability
   §
212.   Expiration of Permits
   §
213.   Posting of Permit
   §
214.   Penalties for Violation
   §
215.   Remedies
   
Exhibit A
Part 3
Curb and Sidewalk Installation and Maintenance
   §
301.   Short Title
   §
302.   Definitions and Word Usage
   §
303.   Permit Required
   §
304.   Time for Applying for Permit
   §
305.   Permit Fees
   §
306.   Construction and Repair Specifications
   §
307.   Grades and Lines
   §
308.   Reasons for Repair
   §
309.   Maintenance of Sidewalks and Curbs
   §
310.   Safety Measures
   §
311.   Violations and Penalties
Part 4
Snow and Ice Removal
   §
401.   Definitions
   §
402.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Sidewalk
   §
403.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Roofs
   §
404.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Fire Hydrants
   §
405.   Depositing of Snow and Ice Restricted
   §
406.   Authority for Township to Remove Snow and Ice and Collect Cost
   §
407.   Ticket Penalties
   §
408.   Violations and Penalties
Part 5
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
   §
501.   Short Title
   §
502.   Legislative Intent
   §
503.   Word Usage and Definitions
   §
504.   Permit Application Requirements
   §
505.   Time and Manner of Submission of Applications
   §
506.   Consideration of Application and Issuance of Permit
   §
507.   Design Standards for Small Wireless Communications Facilities
   §
508.   Maintenance of Small Wireless Facilities
   §
509.   Damage to Existing Facilities and Indemnification
   §
510.   Annual Right-of-Way Fee
   §
511.   Application Fees
   §
512.   Removal of Small Wireless Facilities from Right-of-Way
   §
513.   Violations and Penalties
Part 1
Street Excavations
§ 101. Excavations Require Permits.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 1156 of Article XI of the Second
Class Township Code, as amended, no railroad or street railway shall hereafter
be constructed upon any Township road, nor shall any railroad or street railway
crossings, nor any gas pipe, water pipe, electric conduits, or other piping, be
laid upon or in, nor shall any telephone, telegraph, or electric light or power
poles, or any coal tipples or any other obstruction be erected upon or in, any
portion of a Township road except under such conditions, restrictions and
regulations relating to the installation and maintenance thereof, as may be
prescribed in permits granted by the Township for such purpose.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 1)
§ 102. Applications.
The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the Township and
submitted to the Township in triplicate. The application shall be accompanied
by a fee in accordance with the Schedule of Fees set forth by the Department of
Transportation, for Highway Occupancy Permits and Restoration Charges. In
addition, the applicant shall submit three (3) copies of a sketch showing such
dimensions as the location of the intended facility, width of the traveled
roadway, right-of-way lines and a dimension to the nearest intersecting street.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 2)
§ 103. Permit Issuance.
A permit shall be issued to the applicant after all the aforementioned
requirements have been filed.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 3).
§ 104. Notice of Completion of Work.
Upon completion of the work, the applicant shall give written notice thereof to
the Township.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 4)
§ 105. Inspection; Rectification of Defects.
Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the Township shall
inspect the work and, when necessary, enforce compliance with the conditions,
restrictions and regulations prescribed by the permit. Where any settlement or
defect in the work occurs, if the applicant shall fail to rectify any such
settlement or other defect, within sixty (60) days after written notice from
the Township to do so, the Township may do the work and shall impose upon the
applicant the cost thereof, together with an additional twenty percent (20%) of
such cost.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 5)
§ 106. Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00); and/or to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed ninety (90) days. Every day that a violation of this Part continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7/1/1974, § 6; as amended by Ord. 8/9/1986)
Part 2
Driveways
§ 201. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "South Annville Township
Driveway Ordinance."
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 202. Definitions and Word Usage.
For the purpose of this Part, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed thereto, except where the context thereof clearly indicates another
meaning:
   BOARD - the Board of Supervisors of South Annville Township, Lebanon County,
Pennsylvania.
   CARTWAY - the traveled portion of any road.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - the official designated by the Board to enforce
the provisions of this Part.
   CONTRACTOR - the person who or which installs a driveway, including all
agents, officers or employees of said person.
   DRIVEWAY - any lane, path or other area of land used by the owner or
occupant of property within the Township as a means of access to and from the
cartway of a public road.
   HIGH VOLUME - a driveway that will generate more than fifteen hundred
(1,500) trips per day.
   LOW VOLUME - a driveway that will generate from twenty-six (26) to seven
hundred fifty (750) trips per day.
   MEDIUM VOLUME - a driveway that will generate from seven hundred fifty-one
(751) to fifteen hundred (1,500) trips per day.
   MINIMUM USE - a driveway that will generate up to twenty-five (25) trips per
day.
   OWNER - the owner, his heirs and assigns, of the land upon which the
driveway is located.
   PENNDOT - the Department of Transportation of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and any successor agency.
   PERSON - an individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation or
association, whether incorporated or otherwise, and any other legally
recognized entity and the officers of such corporation and the members of such
partnership or association.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY - the total width, including the cartway, of a road.
   ROAD - any road, street, alley paved or unpaved or other thoroughfare owned
or maintained by the Township as part of its public road system or offered for
dedication to the Township.
   TOWNSHIP - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 203. Permit Required.
   1.   No person, owner and/or contractor shall hereafter install a driveway
or any portion thereof without first obtaining a permit from the Township.
   2.   No person, owner and/or contractor shall hereafter reconstruct, repair
or resurface (excluding adding stone to an existing unpaved driveway and
application of liquid sealers to an existing driveway) a driveway or portion
thereof on or within any Township right-of-way in a manner that will increase
the area, intensity of use, or change the use, grade, or profile, without first
obtaining a permit from the Township.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 204. Design Requirements.
   1.   All driveways shall be constructed in a manner that will not impede or
divert the normal flow of surface drainage. The grade and construction of all
driveways shall be in accordance with the standards and specifications which
are attached hereto, marked Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
thereto. Where the driveway grade exceeds eight (8%) percent, a level area of
sufficient size to provide two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided
adjacent to the roadway to allow safe ingress and egress during wet and/or
slippery driving conditions.
   2.   The sight distance for all driveways shall comply with the requirements
for State highways prescribed by PennDOT as codified at 67 Pa.Code § 441.8,
together with any amendments and addenda thereto.
   3.   The Township will only permit the use of drainage pipes under a
driveway if all of the following conditions are met:
      A.   It is impossible or impractical to maintain drainage flow without a
pipe.
      B.   Calculations are submitted to the Township showing that the proposed
pipe will have a capacity equal to or greater than the existing gutter, or that
such pipe will pass a ten (10) year storm from the drainage area without
encroaching on the cartway. Runoff calculations shall be based upon the United
States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service Soil-Cover-Complex
method, the Rational Formula of Q=CIA, or any other method acceptable to the
Township Engineer.
      C.   The owner agrees in writing to maintain the pipe in good condition
free of debris and siltation.
      D.   The owner agrees in writing to relocate and/or replace the pipe if
at some future date the Township improves or widens the public road requiring
such relocation and/or replacement.
   4.   As part of the driveway construction the owner shall provide bituminous
paving extending for a minimum distance of eight (8) feet from the edge of any
paved cartway to the owner's property. The paving shall consist of a minimum of
eight (8) inch stone base course and a two and one half (2%) inch bituminous
course or equal paving approved by the Township. The swale should be maintained
or the pipe should be located four (4) feet from the edge of the cartway or as
otherwise directed by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 205. Application Procedure.
   1.   Any person, owner and/or contractor shall, prior to obtaining a
driveway permit, file an application, on an application form supplied and
approved by the Township, reflecting and showing the location of the driveway
relative to the premises and designating the course, grade, structure,
materials and drainage facilities, if any, involved in the construction of the
driveway.
   2.   The application shall be reviewed by the Code Enforcement Officer and
may be reviewed by the Township Engineer or Road Foreman. The Code Enforcement
Officer may consult with the Township Engineer or Road Foreman to determine if
the proposed method of constructing or making said connection, as reflected on
the application, is such that it will (A) minimize the adverse impact of
stormwater runoff or surface drainage-resulting from said connection, (B) not
cause damage to the road to which the driveway is to be connected, and (C) not
create or increase hazardous driving conditions for those persons using the
road to which the driveway is to be connected. If found satisfactory by the
Code Enforcement Officer, Road Foreman or Township Engineer, the Code
Enforcement Officer will issue, or cause to be issued, the permit.
   3.   If the plan is found deficient, or if in the opinion of the Code
Enforcement Officer, Road Foreman, or Township Engineer the plan could be
modified so as to (A) minimize the adverse effect of stormwater runoff, (B)
lessen drainage to the public road to which the driveway is to be connected, or
(C) lessen hazardous driving conditions on the road to which the driveway is to
be connected, the Code Enforcement Officer, Road Foreman, or Township Engineer
shall, by written communication to the owner, notify him of the changes to be
made. The applicant shall make such changes and return the revised plan to the
Township. When such plan is in acceptable form, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall approve the plan and will issue, or cause to be issued, the permit. If
the applicant refuses to make such changes, the application shall be deemed
denied for the reasons set forth in the written communication, and the date of
the written communication shall be the date of the denial of the application.
   4.   The applicant may appeal a denial of an application to the Board. The
appeal shall be made within ten (10) days to the Board by filing written notice
of the appeal with the Secretary of the Township. The Board shall thereafter
hold a hearing and render a decision on the refusal to issue a permit pursuant
to the provisions of the Local Agency Law, § 5, 2 Pa.C.S. § 551 et seq.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 206. Payment of Fees.
The application shall be accompanied by such fee or fees as the Board shall
prescribe from time to time by resolution or ordinance not exceeding the
approximate reasonable cost of processing, reviewing the application and making
and necessary inspections.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 207. Relationship to Zoning Permit.
A permit under this Part shall be applied for and obtained prior to the
application for a permit to commence the excavation for or the construction or
erection of any structure regulated by the Zoning Ordinance of South Annville
Township, as amended [
Chapter 27].
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 208. Installation or Repair of Driveway.
   1.   All construction in any way incidental to the installation of the
driveway or for the repair of a driveway for which a permit is required under
this Part shall be performed in strict conformance with the approved plans.
After the proposed driveway has been stoned in, but before the driveway has
received final surfacing, the person to whom the permit has been issued shall
notify the Code Enforcement Officer or Road Foreman. The driveway shall not be
final surfaced until the stoned in area has been inspected and approved by the
Code Enforcement Officer or Road Foreman or their designated representative. In
the event the owner and/or contractor fails to notify the Code Enforcement
Officer or Road Foreman prior to placing the final surface, the Township may
direct the owner and/or contractor to remove the final surface in order that
the inspection may be completed. Such removal shall be at no expense to the
Township. After the driveway has received final surfacing, the person to whom
the permit has been issued shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer or Road
Foreman.
   2.   The contractor shall utilize procedures and/or traffic control devices
as necessary for the maintenance and protection of traffic in strict accordance
with PennDOT Publication 203, "Work Zone Traffic Control," unless otherwise
directed in writing by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 209. Permit Required for All Driveways.
Each driveway, whether serving the same premises or not, shall require an
individual permit.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 210. Minimum Requirements.
The provisions of this Part relating to driveways are intended as a minimum
standard for the protection of public health, safety and welfare. If the
literal compliance with any mandatory provision of this Part relating to
driveways is shown by the applicant, to the satisfaction of the Board, to be
unreasonable or to cause undue hardship as it applies to a particular property,
or if the applicant shows that an alternative proposal will allow for equal or
better results, the Board may grant a waiver from such mandatory provisions so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured while
permitting the reasonable utilization of the property. However, the granting of
a waiver shall not have the effect of making null and void the intent and
purpose of this Part. In granting waivers, the Board may impose such conditions
as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards
and requirements of this Part.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 211. Waiver of Liability.
The grant of a permit under this Part shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind by the Township or by any official or
employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed driveway and
shall create no liability upon the Township, its officials, or employees.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 212. Expiration of Permits.
A permit issued under this Part shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the
date of issuance. The Code Enforcement Officer may at his discretion grant one
extension of the permit for up to six (6) months upon written application of
the person to whom the permit was issued prior to the expiration of the permit.
The application for extension must indicate good cause for the failure to
complete work within the twelve (12) month time period. A permit shall not
expire while a request for an extension is pending.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 213. Posting of Permit.
The permit granted under this Part shall be posted at the right-of-way line so
as to be visible from the roadway. The permit shall remain posted until final
approval of the work has been given.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 214. Penalties for Violation.
Any owner, person and/or contractor who or which shall violate any of the
provisions of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof by summary proceeding
before a district justice, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred ($600.00) dollars. If a defendant sentenced to pay a fine or costs
after a finding of guilt in a summary case defaults in such payment, the
defendant may be sentenced and committed to the Lebanon County Prison for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days. All fines collected for the violation of
this Part shall be paid to the Treasurer of the Township for the general use of
the Township.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
§ 215. Remedies.
In addition or in lieu of the penalties provided in §
214, violations of this Part may be abated by the Township proceeding against
the violator in a court of equity to obtain injunctive relief.
(Ord. 6-28-04-3, 6/28/2004, § 1)
Exhibit A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2538a31a78a43d71befb51b64031956eb610d674/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.png]
Part 3
Curb and Sidewalk Installation and Maintenance
§301. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "South Annville Township Curb
and Sidewalk Ordinance."
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§302. Definitions and Word Usage.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      ADA - The Americans with Disabilities Act and all regulations adopted to
implement the statute.
      OWNER - The legal and/or beneficial owner of real property located within
the Township.
      PENNDOT - The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and any agency
successor thereto.
      PERSON - Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or
other entity and the officers of such corporation or firm and the members of
such partnership or association which is recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties,
      TOWNSHIP - The Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§303. Permit Required.
No person shall install or replace any sidewalk, curb or gutter within the
right-of-way of any existing public highway, road, street, avenue, public lane
or public alley in the Township without first obtaining a permit for such
purpose from the Township and assuming liability for all and any damage which
might result from the performance of such work.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§304. Time for Applying for Permit.
Any person desiring a permit under the provisions of this Part shall file an
application at least ten days prior to the proposed construction,
reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk, curb or gutter when the line and grade
have been established by the Township and at least 30 days where no line or
grade has been established.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§305. Permit Fees.
Applicants for a permit relating to this Part shall pay to the Township at the
time of application the fees set forth in the then-current fee schedule which
shall have been adopted by resolution by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§306. Construction and Repair Specifications.
   1.   All curbing and sidewalk shall be constructed and repaired in
accordance with specifications set forth in the applicable Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, and in accordance with most current editions of PennDOT
Publication Form 408, Specifications, and PennDOT Publication No. 72, Standards
for Roadway Construction, and in accordance with any regulations adopted by the
state or federal government concerning handicapped accessibility, including but
not limited to regulations implementing the ADA. In the event of any
inconsistencies, the PennDOT specifications shall govern except for
accessibility, in which case the ADA regulations shall govern.
   2.   Supplementing the specifications and standards established in
Subsection 1., the following construction and repair practices shall be
followed:
      A.   For curbing and sidewalk, expansion joints shall be spaced at a
maximum interval of thirty (30) feet.
      B.   For curbing, contraction joints shall be placed at a maximum
interval of ten (10) feet.
      C.   For sidewalk, traverse dummy joints shall be placed at a maximum of
five (5) feet.
      D.   Width of sidewalks and construction of sidewalks shall be consistent
with design standards set forth in the applicable Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance and the ADA. The minimum width for sidewalks where
sidewalks are provided on both sides of a street shall be four (4) feet and the
minimum width for sidewalks where sidewalks are provided only one side of a
street shall be eight (8) feet unless otherwise directed by the Township
Engineer.
      E.   Depth of concrete at driveway ramps where a driveway crosses shall
be a minimum of six (6) inches.
      F.   Construction of driveway and pedestrian ramps shall be consistent
with the design standards set forth in the ADA regulations and PennDOT
Publication No. 72 for curb ramps. Pedestrian ramp locations will be where
directed by the Township Engineer.
      G.   Vertical curbs shall be installed unless the Township Engineer, for
cause shown, permits the use of slant curbs. Cost shall not be considered cause
warranting use of slant curbs.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§307. Grades and Lines.
   1.   The Township Engineer is hereby empowered to give or define grades or
lines for the placing or replacing of sidewalk, curb and gutter within the
boundaries of any public highway, road, street, avenue, public lane or public
alley within said Township, and no act on the part of any other official or
employee shall bond the Township or make it liable therefor.
   2.   For giving or defining grades or lines for the placing of sidewalks,
curbs or gutters within the boundaries of any public highway, street, road,
avenue, lane or alley, a charge payable to the Township will be made in
accordance with a standard rate adopted by resolution.
   3.   No sidewalk, curb or gutter shall be constructed or replaced except
after a permit is obtained and the Township Engineer shall have given the
grades and lines after the necessary survey.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§308. Reasons for Repair.
   The owner of a property where any of the following conditions exist shall
repair or replace such curb or sidewalk:
   1.   Spalling or chipping. Any spalling or chipping shall be reason for
repair of a curb or sidewalk. Where such spalling or chipping extends beyond
twenty-five percent (25%) of the surface area of the curb or sidewalk, it shall
be deemed to be beyond repair and such section must be replaced.
   2.   Cracking. Any curb which has a crack exceeding one-half (½) inch and
which is out of alignment shall be replaced.
   3.   Leaning. Any curbing leaning two (2) inches out of alignment must be
reset, if possible, or replaced where resetting is impossible.
   4.   Where a curb has been snapped off, it must be replaced and no capping
shall be permitted.
   5.   Capping. A capped curb that is structurally solid may be permitted, but
any section of curbing with a loose cap or one that is out of alignment shall
be replaced.
   6.   Any sidewalk block or driveway apron that has settled or raised one (1)
inch above or below the adjoining sidewalk block shall be removed and replaced
in accordance with the specifications below.
   7.   Any sidewalk block or driveway apron that is cracked to such a degree
as to constitute a hazard to pedestrian traffic shall be removed and replaced
in accordance with the specifications below.
   8.   Any sidewalk that slopes toward the curb in exceed of one (1) inch per
foot shall be deemed to be hazardous to pedestrian traffic and shall be removed
and replaced in accordance with the specifications below.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§309. Maintenance of Sidewalks and Curbs.
   1.   The owner of the abutting property shall be responsible for keeping the
sidewalks and curbs immediately in front of his/her property in good order and
repair and free of all obstructions. The owner of the abutting property shall
repair or replace any sidewalk or curb which deteriorates or becomes hazardous.
Such repair or replacement shall be done in accordance with the specifications
as set forth in this Part.
   2.   Should the abutting owner fail to make such necessary repairs or
replacement of the sidewalk or curb, the Township may serve upon him/her a
notice requiring such repair or replacement. The notice shall be served on the
property owner by certified mail or by leaving notice at his/her place of
residence. Where the owner resides outside the Township, notice shall be served
by posting the notice on the premises in question and mailing a copy by
certified mail to the owner's last known address.
   3.   If such abutting property owner fails to comply with the requirements
of the notice within sixty (60) days from the date of service, the Township may
make the necessary repairs or replace the sidewalk or curb. The cost of the
repairs or replacement shall be paid by the owner of the abutting property,
together with a penalty of ten percent (10%), or may be collected as provided
by law in an action of assumpsit or by filing a municipal lien against the
property.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§310. Safety Measures.
Permittees, their contractors or agents shall protect the public by proper
guards and lights against any danger or injury while the highway is open or the
work is under construction. At all times an unobstructed passage along the
sidewalk or at least four (4) feet in width and a free passage for water in the
gutter shall be maintained. No building materials or other obstructions shall
be placed within twenty-five (25) feet of a fire hydrant, and all such
obstructions shall be removed from the highway before the time of the
expiration of the permit. No materials shall be mixed upon the surface of the
highway.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§311. Violations and Penalties
Any person, including but not limited to owners, tenants, occupiers,
contractors, subcontractors and their agents, servants and employees, who or
which shall violate any of the terms of this Part shall, shall be liable upon
conviction thereof in a summary proceeding to pay a fine of not less than One
Hundred ($100.00) Dollars nor more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars for
each offense, together with the costs of prosecution. Each day or portion
thereof in which a violation exists shall be considered a separate violation of
this Part, and each Section of this Part which is violated shall be considered
a separate violation. These penalties shall be in addition to the remedies
afforded in §
309.3 above.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
Part 4
Snow and Ice Removal
§401. Definitions.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - A person other than an officer of the Police
Department designated by the Board of Supervisors of the Township to enforce
this Part.
      OWNER - The legal and/or beneficial owner of real property located within
the Township.
      PERSON - Any individual, association, partnership, public or private
corporation whether for profit or not-for-profit, trust, estate, or other
legally recognized entity. Whenever the term "person" is used in connection
with any clause providing for the imposition of a fine or penalty or the
ordering of the action to comply with the terms of this Part, the term "person"
shall include the members of an association, partnership or firm and the
officers of any public or private corporation, whether for profit or not-for-
profit.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT - The South Annville Township Police Department and any
other police department which performs contracted services in the Township.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY - For unoccupied or multiple unit properties, the
person or persons who is/are the owner(s) of such property. For occupied single
unit properties, all occupants of the property.
      TOWNSHIP - The Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§402.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Sidewalk.
The responsible party for a property fronting upon or along any street within
the Township is hereby required to remove or cause to be removed from all of
the sidewalks in front of or along side such property all snow and ice which
has fallen or formed thereon within twenty-four (24) hours after such snow and
ice has ceased to fall or to be formed so that there shall be a clear walk
along the entire length thereof at least three (3) feet in width. In the event
that snow and/or ice on a sidewalk has become so hard that it cannot be removed
without the likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the responsible party shall,
within twenty-four (24) hours after the snow or ice has ceased to fall or form,
cause enough sand or other abrasive to be placed upon the sidewalk to make
travel reasonably safe and shall, as soon thereafter as weather permits, cause
to be cleared a path in said sidewalk of at least three (3) feet in width.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§403.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Roofs.
Every responsible party shall remove and clear away, or cause to be removed and
cleared away, any accumulation of snow and ice on a building or other structure
which is liable to fall on any sidewalk, roadway or other public way. Such work
shall be completed within a reasonable time, but not later than twenty-four
(24) hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§404.   Removal of Snow and Ice from Fire Hydrants.
Every responsible party shall remove and clear away, or cause to be removed and
cleared away, any accumulation of snow or ice surrounding a fire hydrant
located along the frontage of the property of the responsible party. Such work
shall be completed within a reasonable time, but not later than twenty-four
(24) hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§405.   Depositing of Snow and Ice Restricted.
    No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow or ice on or
immediately next to a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, travel lanes of a
street, or loading or unloading area of a public transportation system; except
that the Township may mound snow and ice on public cartways incident to the
clearing thereof or on curbs and persons may mound snow and ice on curbs
incident to the clearing of sidewalks in business districts.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§406. Authority for Township to Remove Snow and Ice and Collect Cost.
In any case where the responsible party shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply
with any of the provisions of this Part within the time limit prescribed
herein, the Township may proceed immediately to clear all snow and/or ice from
the sidewalk, roof, or around the fire hydrant on the property for which such
person is a responsible party and to collect the expenses of such removal, with
an additional penalty of ten (10%) percent of such costs, from the responsible
party or to file a municipal lien against such property.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§407. Ticket Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this Part, shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay fines and costs as established in §
408  of this Part. Provided: It shall be the duty of the code enforcement
officer and of police officers to report to the appropriate official all
violations of any provision of this Part indicating, in each case, the section
violated; the location where the violation took place; and any other facts that
might be necessary in order the secure an clear understanding of the
circumstances attending the violation. The code enforcement officer or police
officer making the report shall also deliver to the responsible party or attach
to or place upon the dwelling or other structure on the property where the
violation is located a notice stating that the responsible party is in
violation of this Part. The notice shall contain instructions to the
responsible party that if he will report to the Office of the Chief of Police
and pay Fifteen ($15.00) Dollars within forty-eight (48) hours, that act will
save the responsible party from the prosecution and from payment of the fine
and costs described in the first sentence of this Section and that if the
responsible party shall place the sum set forth below plus a late fee of Five
($5.00) Dollars more than forty-eight (48) hours but less than fourteen (14)
days after the notice, that act will save the responsible party from
prosecution and from payment of the fine and costs prescribed in the first
sentence of this Section or in such other applicable Section of this Part. The
Board of Supervisors may change the penalty sum of Fifteen ($15.00) Dollars or
the late fee of Five ($5.00) Dollars at any time by resolution.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
§408. Violations and Penalties.
Any person who commits or permits any other person to commit a violation of any
provision of this Part shall be liable upon conviction thereof in a summary
proceeding to pay a fine of not less than One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars nor
more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars for each offense, together with the
costs of prosecution. Each day or portion thereof in which a violation exists
shall be considered a separate violation of this Part, and each Section of this
Part which is violated shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 7-10-19-1, 7/10/2019, §1)
Part 5
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
§501. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as The South Annville Township Small
Wireless Facilities and Use of Public Street Right-of-Way Ordinance.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§502. Legislative Intent.
The Board of Supervisors enacts this Part to govern use of public street
rights-of-way and municipal poles in accordance with and as limited by Act 50
of 2021, The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The Board of Supervisors
recognizes the limitations of the Act on its powers and desires to regulate the
public street rights-of-way and municipal poles to the maximum extent allowed
by such Act. The Board of Supervisors further desires to limit, to the extent
legally permissible, conflicts with other uses of the public street rights-of-
way.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§503. Word Usage and Definitions.
   A.   Word usage. In interpreting this Part, the singular shall include the
plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   B.   Definitions. All words and phrases not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meanings set forth in Section 2 of the Act.
      ACT - The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, the Act of June 30,
2021, P.L. _____ , No. 50, 53 P.S. §11704.1 et seq., and as may be amended in
the future.
      ADA - The federal Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended, and all
regulations adopted to implement such statute.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS - The governing body of the Township.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - The person designated by the Board of
Supervisors to administer this Part.
      FCC - The Federal Communications Commission or any agency successor
thereto.
      ONE CALL - The Pennsylvania One Call Act, the Act of December 10, 1974,
P.L. 852, as amended, 73 P.S. §176 et seq., and all regulations adopted to
implement such statute.
      TOWNSHIP -The Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
      UCC - The Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, as adopted and
administered by this Township.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§504. Permit Application Requirements.
All persons who desire to install a small wireless facility within a right-of-
way, whether by co-location or by the installation of a new utility pole, shall
file an application in writing for a permit with the Code Enforcement Officer.
In order to be considered a complete application, such application must include
all of the following:
   A.   A written application form identifying in detail the name of the
applicant and contact information for the applicant and the name and contact
information of the person who prepared the application and whether applicant
proposes erection of a new utility pole or co-location on an existing utility
pole.
   B.   Precise location of all portions of the proposed small wireless
facility, including pole mounted and ground mounted small wireless facility
components.
   C.   Identity of the owner of the utility pole if the Applicant proposes co-
location on an existing utility pole.
   D.   A report by a qualified engineering expert which shows that the small
wireless facility will comply with all applicable FCC regulations. The report
must identify the person who prepared the report and his or her qualifications.
   E.   Construction drawings and supplemental information demonstrating
compliance with Section 3 of the Act, the UCC (including as applicable a
complete UCC permit application) and this Part.
   F.   Plan showing the proposed small wireless facility installation sealed
by a professional engineer which shall contain a certification that after
installation of the facility any sidewalk, curb, or curb cuts which may be
impacted will comply with the ADA after installation of the small wireless
facility. The plan shall meet all of the following requirements and include all
of the following information:
      1.   Existing right-of-way width, sidewalk, curbing, and cartway with
sufficient information to demonstrate that the small wireless facility will be
located completely within the existing public street right-of-way and will not
interfere with the safe operation of traffic control equipment, sight lines, or
clear zones for vehicles or pedestrians.
      2.   Location of all storm water management facilities within the public
street right-of-way including swales, inlets, rain gardens, and pipes, with
sufficient information to demonstrate that the small wireless facility will be
located and installed in a manner that will not interfere with existing storm
water management facilities.
      3.   Location of all utility facilities within the public street right-
of-way including but not limited to public water and sewer facilities,
including all hydrants and manholes with sufficient information to demonstrate
that the small wireless facility will be located and installed in a manner that
will not interfere with existing utility facilities.
      4.   Location of any driveway, mailbox, or utility serving the abutting
property.
   G.   Where the application proposes co-location on an existing utility pole
which is not a municipal pole, written permission from the owner of the
existing utility pole.
   H.   Where the application proposes installation of a new utility pole, a
self-certification that the applicant has determined in good faith that it
cannot meet its service reliability and functional objectives of the
application by co-locating on an existing utility pole or municipal pole. This
self-certification shall include documentation of the basis of the
determination which shall identify all existing utility poles and municipal
poles in the vicinity and why they are not suitable.
   I.   Where a new pole or excavation for any reason is proposed, an
application for a street opening permit meeting all requirements of the Part 1
of this Chapter with street opening permit fee and evidence of compliance with
One Call.
   J.   The fee established by this Part.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§505. Time and Manner of Submission of Applications.
All applications shall be submitted to the Township office on a day that the
Township office is open to the public and during hours that the office is open
to the public. Applications received within one hour of close of business shall
be considered filed on the next day that the Township office is open for
business.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§506. Consideration of Application and Issuance of Permit.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall review the application for completion within
the time periods required by the Act and, if incomplete, shall notify the
applicant in accordance with the Act. The Code Enforcement Officer shall review
and act upon the application in accordance with the Act.
   A.   If the application meets all requirements of the Act and this Part, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit to authorize installation of the
small wireless facility and an invoice for the right-of-way fee for the small
wireless facility.
   B.   The proposed collocation, the modification or replacement of a utility
pole or the installation of a new utility pole with small wireless facilities
attached for which a permit is granted under this Part shall be completed
within one (1) year of the permit issuance date.
   C.   Subject to the permit requirements and the wireless provider's right to
terminate at any time, the permit shall grant the wireless provider
authorization to operate and maintain small wireless facilities and any
associated equipment on the utility pole covered by the permit for a period of
five (5) years, which shall be renewed for two (2) additional five (5)-year
periods if the permit holder is in compliance with the criteria set forth in
this Part and the Act and the permit holder has obtained all necessary consent
from the utility pole owner.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§507. Design Standards for Small Wireless Communications Facilities.
All small wireless facilities to be installed and maintained within the right-
of-way shall meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   The small wireless facility and all associated equipment shall meet the
size limits and height limits of the Act.
   B.   The small wireless facility shall be located so as not to cause any
physical or visual obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or to
otherwise create safety hazards to pedestrians and/or motorists or to otherwise
inconvenience public use of the right-of-way. This shall include, but not be
limited to, any interference with compliance with the ADA.
   C.   A new pole shall not be located within ten (10) feet of an existing
driveway or street intersection. A new pole shall not be located within any
storm water management facility including, but not limited to, any swale or
rain garden. A new pole shall not be located within eighteen (18) inches of the
face of the curb.
   D.   All equipment of the small wireless facility which is mounted on a pole
shall have a clearance of not less than eighteen (18) feet if located over a
cartway and not less than ten (10) feet if not located over a cartway.
   E.   Ground-mounted accessory equipment, walls, or landscaping shall not be
located within any storm water management facility including, but not limited
to, any swale or rain garden or within eighteen (18) inches of the face of the
curb.
   F.   A new pole or ground mounted accessory equipment, walls or landscaping
shall not be located in an easement extending onto the lot adjoining the right-
of-way without the written permission of the easement holder.
   G.   Ground-mounted accessory equipment that cannot be placed underground
shall be screened, to the fullest extent possible, through the use of
landscaping or other decorative features. Any required electrical meter
cabinets shall be screened to blend in with the surrounding area. Ground-
mounted accessory equipment shall not interfere with access to any driveway or
mailbox.
   H.   All underground facilities shall be designed and installed in a manner
which will not require the removal or relocation of any storm water management
facility or underground utility.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§508. Maintenance of Small Wireless Facilities.
The wireless provider shall maintain the small wireless facility in a manner
that meets or exceeds all of the design standards of this Part and all
standards of the UCC. If the small wireless facility is the only facility on a
pole, the wireless provider shall maintain the pole in accordance with this
Part and all applicable requirements. The wireless provider shall remove any
graffiti on the small wireless facility, including but not limited to ground-
mount accessory equipment, within thirty (30) days after notice from the
Township to do so.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§509. Damage to Existing Facilities and Indemnification.
   A.   A wireless provider shall repair all damage to the right-of-way or any
other land so disturbed, directly caused by the activities of the wireless
provider or the wireless provider's contractors, including installation of the
small wireless facility or the failure to properly maintain the small wireless
facility, and return the right-of-way in as good of condition as it existed
prior to any work being done in the right-of-way by the wireless provider or
damage resulting from the failure to maintain the small wireless facility. If
the wireless provider fails to make the repairs required by the Township within
thirty (30) days after written notice, the Township may perform those repairs
and charge the wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the repairs
plus a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500). The wireless provider who has
failed to make the required repairs shall not be eligible to receive a new
permit from the Township until the wireless provider has paid the amount
assessed for the repair costs and the assessed penalty or deposited the amount
assessed for the repair costs and the assessed penalty in escrow pending an
adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   A wireless provider shall fully indemnify and hold the Township and its
officers, employees and agents harmless against any claims, lawsuits,
judgments, costs, liens, expenses or fees or any other damages caused by the
act, error or omission of the wireless provider or its officers, agents,
employees, directors, contractors or subcontractors while installing, repairing
or maintaining small wireless facilities or utility poles within the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§510. Annual Right-of-Way Fee.
In accordance with Section 3(c) of the Act, the Township hereby imposes an
annual fee for the use of right-of-way in the amount of two hundred seventy
dollars ($270) per small wireless facility or two hundred seventy dollars
($270) per new utility pole with a small wireless facility. The annual fee
shall become effective beginning on January 1, 2022 and shall be imposed for
each calendar year or portion thereof during which a small wireless facility is
located in a right-of-way. The owner of each small wireless facility installed
within the Township shall be responsible to pay such right-of-way fee whether
or not such provider receives an invoice from the Township. The fee will be due
by January 31 of the calendar year for the calendar year to which the fee
relates.
   A.   The failure to pay the annual right-of-way fee shall be a violation of
this Part and shall be subject to the penalties and remedies in this Part.
   B.   If the annual right-of-way fee is not paid in full by January 31 of the
calendar year, a penalty of ten (10%) percent of the annual fee shall be added.
If the annual fee plus penalty is not paid in full by March 31 of the calendar
year, interest at the rate of one (1%) percent per month shall continue until
the annual right-of-way fee, penalty, and interest are paid in full.
   C.   The annual fee shall be adjusted upward by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors if authorized by Section 7(c) of the Act.
   D.   The owner of each small wireless facility installed within a right-of-
way on the effective date of this Part shall provide the Township with a report
identifying each existing small wireless facility identifying the location of
such small wireless facility, the dimensions of such small wireless facility,
and the date of installation of the small wireless facility. This report shall
include the name and contact information for the owner of the small wireless
facilities, including the address to send invoices for the annual right-of-way
fee and any notices under this Part.
   E.   The owner of each small wireless facility shall provide the Township
with up-to-date contact information. If ownership of a small wireless facility
changes, the new owner of the small wireless facility shall provide notice and
new contact information to the Township within thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§511. Application Fees.
An applicant for a permit to install a small wireless facility shall include
the following fees with its application:
   A.   For an application seeking approval for between one (1) and five (5)
co-located small wireless facilities: $500.
   B.   For an application seeking approval of more than five (5) co-located
small wireless facilities: $500 plus $100 for each co-located small wireless
facility beyond five (5).
   C.   For an application seeking approval of a small wireless facility that
requires the installation of a new or replacement utility pole: $1,000.
   D.   The fees established by this Section shall be adjusted upward by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors if authorized by Section 7(c) of the
Act.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§512. Removal of Small Wireless Facilities from Right-of-Way.
   A.   Within sixty (60) days of suspension or revocation of a permit due to
noncompliance with this Part or the Act, the permit holder shall remove the
small wireless facility and any associated equipment, including the utility
pole and any support structures if the permit holder's wireless facilities and
associated equipment are the only facilities on the utility pole, after
receiving adequate notice and an opportunity to cure any noncompliance.
   B.   Within ninety (90) days of the end of a permit term or an extension of
the permit term, the permit holder shall remove the small wireless facility and
any associated equipment, including the utility pole and any support structures
if the permit holder's wireless facilities and associated equipment are the
only facilities on the utility pole.
   C.   A wireless provider which elects to discontinue the use of a small
wireless facility shall notify the Township in writing not less than forty-five
(45) days prior to the discontinuance of use of the small wireless facility,
which notice shall specify when and how the wireless provider will remove the
small wireless facility and, if applicable, the pole. The wireless provider
shall complete the removal within forty-five (45) days of the discontinuance of
the use of the small wireless facility. A permit issued under this Part for a
small wireless facility which is voluntarily removed shall expire upon the
removal of the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
§513. Violations and Penalties.
   A.   Violations. It shall be a violation of this Part to do or permit the
following:
      1.   To install a small wireless facility prior to obtaining the permit
required by this Part.
      2.   To install a small wireless facility in a manner other than that
authorized by the permit.
      3.   To place any false or misleading information on an application
including, but not limited to, incorrectly identifying the right-of-way width,
the identity of the owner of a utility pole, the precise location of the
utility pole, or the size and location of any proposed or existing equipment.
      4.   To fail to make any payment required by this Part or to make a
payment by a means which is later dishonored.
      5.   To violate any other provision of this Part.
   B.   Penalties. Any person who violates or permits the violation of any
provision of this Part shall be liable upon summary conviction therefor to
fines and penalties of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) plus all costs of prosecution, including
attorneys' fees, which costs, fines, and penalties may be collected as provided
by law. Each day that a violation continues and each Section of this Part which
is violated constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 11-10-21-1, 11/10/2021, §1)
CHAPTER 22
SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
The provisions of the Lebanon County Subdivision and land development
regulations were adopted by the Township through Ordinance 14, 8/6/1973.
Lebanon_County_Subdivision_and_Land_Development_Ordinance_[PDF]
CHAPTER 23
SWIMMING POOLS
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
[See ZONING,
Chapter 27, for certain regulations on Swimming Pools.]
CHAPTER 24
TAXATION, SPECIAL
Part 1
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Imposition of Tax
   §
104.   Exemption from Tax; Individuals Under Age 16
   §
105.   Individual Tax Returns and Payments
   §
106.   Employer Withholding, Remittance, and Tax Returns
   §
107.   Tax Collector
   §
108.   Interest, Penalties, Costs, and Fines
   §
109.   Purpose/Amendment and Restatement/Repeal
   §
110.   Effective Date
Part 2
Realty Transfer Tax
   §
201.   Title
   §
202.   Authority
   §
203.   Rules and Regulations
   §
204.   Definitions and Word Usage
   §
205.   Imposition of Tax
   §
206.   Evidence of Payment
   §
207.   Exempt Parties
   §
208.   Excluded Transactions
   §
209.   Transfer Documents
   §
210.   Acquired Companies
   §
211.   Credits Against Tax
   §
212.   Statement of Value
   §
213.   Prohibited Acts
   §
214.   Violations and Penalties
   §
215.   Tax to Become a Lien
   §
216.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale
   §
217.   Enforcement
   §
218.   Collector
   §
219.   Interpretation; Effect
Part 1
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
§ 101. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "South Annville Township
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax Ordinance." (Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 102. Definitions.
All terms defined in the Local Tax Enabling Act shall have the meanings set
forth therein. The following terms shall have the meanings set forth herein:
   COLLECTOR - the person or entity appointed as tax officer pursuant to the
Local Tax Enabling Act to collect the tax.
   EFFECTIVE DATE - January 1, 2012.
   ENACTMENT - this Part.
   GOVERNING BODY - the Board of Supervisors of the Township of South Annville.
   LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT - the Local Tax Enabling Act, as set forth in 53 P.S.
§ 6901 et seq., while such numbering and provisions remain in effect under Act
32 of 2008, and as set forth in 53 P.S. § 6924.101 et seq., when such numbering
and provisions become effective under Act 32, and as amended in the future.
   TAX - the tax imposed by this enactment.
   TAX RETURN - a form prescribed by the collector for reporting the amount of
tax or other amount owed or required to be withheld, remitted, or reported
under this enactment or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   TAX YEAR - the period from January 1 to December 31.
   TAXING AUTHORITY - South Annville Township.
   TCC - the tax collection committee established to govern and oversee the
collection of earned income tax within the TCD under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
   TCD - any tax collection district to which the taxing authority or any part
of the taxing authority is assigned under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 103. Imposition of Tax.
   1.   General Purpose Resident Tax. The taxing authority hereby imposes a tax
for general revenue purposes at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) on earned
income and net profits of individual residents of the taxing authority.
   2.   Ongoing Tax. The tax shall continue at the above rates during the
current tax year and each tax year thereafter, without annual re-enactment,
until this enactment is repealed or the rate is changed.
   3.   Local Tax Enabling Act Applicable. The tax is imposed under authority
of the Local Tax Enabling Act, and all provisions thereof that relate to a tax
on earned income or net profits are incorporated into this enactment. Any
future amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act that are required to be applied
to a tax on earned income or net profits will automatically become part of this
enactment upon the effective date of such amendment, without the need for
formal amendment of this enactment, to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.
§ 1937.
   4.   Applicable Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Procedures.
The tax shall be collected and administered in accordance with: (A) all
applicable laws and regulations; and (B) regulations, policies and procedures
adopted by the TCC or by the collector. This includes any regulations,
policies, and procedures adopted in the future to the maximum extent allowed by
1 Pa.C.S. § 1937.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 104. Exemption from Tax; Individuals Under Age 16.
No exemption from tax. Although credits and deductions against the tax are
permitted under certain circumstances as provided in applicable law and
regulations, no individuals are exempt from the tax based on age, income or
other factors.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 105. Individual Tax Returns and Payments.
Every individual receiving earned income or earning net profits in any tax year
shall file tax returns and pay tax in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 106. Employer Withholding, Remittance, and Tax Returns.
Every employer shall register, withhold, and remit tax, and file tax returns in
accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 107. Tax Collector.
The tax will be collected from individuals and employers by the collector.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 108. Interest, Penalties, Costs, and Fines.
Individuals and employers are subject to interest, penalties, costs, and fines
in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act, including costs imposed by the
collector in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 109. Purpose/Amendment and Restatement/Repeal.
The primary purpose of this enactment is to conform the earned income and net
profits tax currently imposed to the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended and
restated by Act 32 of 2008, and to do so within the time frame required by Act
32. Any prior enactment imposing a tax on earned income or net profits of
individuals is amended and restated in its entirety to read as stated in this
enactment. Any other prior enactment or part of any prior enactment conflicting
with the provisions of this enactment is rescinded insofar as the conflict
exists. To the extent the same as any enactment in force immediately prior to
adoption of this enactment, the provisions of this enactment are intended as a
continuation of such prior enactment and not as a new enactment. If this
enactment is declared invalid, any prior enactment levying a similar tax shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by adoption of this
enactment. If any part of this enactment is declared invalid, the similar part
of any prior enactment levying a similar tax shall remain in effect and shall
not be affected by adoption of this enactment. The provisions of this shall not
affect any act done or liability incurred, nor shall such provisions affect any
suit or prosecution pending or to be initiated to enforce any right or penalty
or to punish offense under the authority of any enactment in force prior to
adoption of this enactment. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this
Section, this enactment shall amend and restate on the effective date any
enactment levying a tax on earned income or net profits in force immediately
prior to the effective date.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 1)
§ 110. Effective Date.
This Part shall take effect and be in force on January 1, 2012.
(Ord. 12-14-11, 12/14/2011, § 2)
Part 2
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 201. Title.
This Part shall be known as the "South Annville Township Realty Transfer Tax
Ordinance."
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 202. Authority.
This realty transfer tax is levied under the authority of Article XI-D,
entitled "Local Real Estate Transfer Tax" of the Pennsylvania Real Estate
Transfer Tax Act, added by Act 77 of 1936 (Act of July 2, 1986, No. 77, P.L.
318) to the Pennsylvania Real Estate Transfer Tax Act, Act 14 of 1981 (Act of
May 5, 1981, No. 14, P.L. 36), as amended. This realty transfer tax is also
levied under the authority of the "Local Tax Enabling Act," Act of December 31,
1965. P.L. 1257, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6901 et seq.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 203. Rules and Regulations.
The Township may promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for
the interpretation, collection and enforcement of the tax.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 204. Definitions and Word Usage.
   1.   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and neuter.
   2.   The following words, when used in this Part, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
      ASSOCIATION - a partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two (2) or more persons.
      COLLECTOR - the Recorder of Deeds of Lebanon County, Pennsylvania, is
hereby appointed collector of the tax levied by this Part.
      CORPORATION - a corporation, joint-stock association, business trust or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, the United States, or any other State, territory, foreign country
or dependency.
      DOCUMENT - any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers,
demises, vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real
estate within the Township, but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of
trust or other instruments of like character given as security for a debt and
deeds of release thereof to the debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title
does not pass to the grantee until the total consideration specified in the
contract has been paid or any cancellation thereof unless the consideration is
payable over a period of time exceeding thirty (30) years or instruments which
solely grant, vest or confirm a public utility easement. "Document" shall also
include a declaration of acquisition required to be presented for recording
under § 210 of this Part.
      FAMILY FARM CORPORATION - a corporation which at least seventy-five
percent (75%) of its assets are devoted to the business of agriculture and at
least seventy-five percent (75%) of each class of stock of the corporation is
continuously owned by members of the same family. The business of agriculture
shall not be deemed to include:
         (1)   Recreational activities such as but not limited to hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing.
         (2)   The raising, breeding, or training of game animals or game
birds, fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities.
         (3)   Fur farming.
         (4)   Stockyard or slaughterhouse operations.
         (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
      FAMILY FARM PARTNERSHIP - a partnership which at least seventy-five
percent (75%) of its assets are devoted to the business of agriculture and at
least seventy-five percent (75%) of the interests in the partnership are
continuously owned by members of the same family. The business of agriculture
shall not be deemed to include:
         (1)   Recreational activities such as but not limited to hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing.
         (2)   The raising, breeding, or training of game animals or game
birds, fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities.
         (3)   Fur farming.
         (4)   Stockyard or slaughterhouse operations.
         (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
      MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY - any individual, such individual's brothers
and sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual's parents and
grandparents, the ancestors or lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole blood.
      MUNICIPALITY - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County,
Pennsylvania.
      PERSON - every natural person, association, corporation or entity of any
kind. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, fine or
imprisonment, or both, the term "person" as applied to associations, shall
include the responsible members or general partners thereof and, as applied to
corporations, the officers thereof.
      REAL ESTATE -
         (1)   Any lands, tenements or hereditaments, including, without
limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals, oil, gas,
quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees and other
improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage or law pass with a
conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery and equipment
in an industrial plant.
         (2)   A condominium unit.
         (3)   A tenant-stockholder's interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
      REAL ESTATE COMPANY - a corporation or association which is primarily
engaged in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate, ninety
percent (90%) or more of the ownership interest in which is held by thirty-five
(35) or fewer persons and which:
         (1)   Derives sixty percent (60%) or more of its annual gross receipts
from the ownership or disposition of real estate.
         (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises ninety percent
(90%) or more of the value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of
tangible assets which are freely transferable and actively traded on an
established market.
      REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION - the making, executing, delivering, accepting or
presenting for recording of a document.
      TITLE TO REAL ESTATE -
         (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time,
the termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of
years, including, without limitation, an estate in fee simple, life estate or
perpetual leasehold.
         (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including, without limitation, a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of thirty (30) years
or more or a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which
the lessee has equity. In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed
that a right or option to review or extend a lease will be exercised if the
rental charge to the lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental
charge is established.
      TOWNSHIP - the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
      VALUE
         (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm's length
for actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor paid
or to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing before
the transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying
indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents or a commensurate part thereof where
such liens or other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged
against other real estate, provided that where the document shall set forth a
nominal consideration, the "value" thereof shall be determined from the price
set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale.
         (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon
the foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties or the real estate of an acquired company,
"value" shall be the actual monetary worth of the real estate within the
municipality, determined by adjusting the assessed value of the real estate for
local real estate tax purposes for the common level ratio of assessed values to
market values of the taxing district as established by the State Tax
Equalization Board or a commensurate part of the assessment where the
assessment includes other real estate.
         (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determinable under paragraph .A or .B, the actual
monetary worth of such interest.
         (4)   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principal of the grantor or a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 205. Imposition of Tax.
   1.   Effective July 1, 2008, a tax is hereby levied and imposed, for general
municipal purposes, on every real estate transaction, at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the value of the real estate represented by the document
involved in the real estate transaction.
   2.   The tax shall be payable at the earlier of the time the document is
presented for recording, within thirty (30) days of acceptance of the document,
or within thirty (30) days of becoming an acquired company.
   3.   If the real estate is located partially within and partially outside
the Township, the tax shall be calculated on the value of the portion within
the Township.
   4.   The tax imposed hereunder shall be due and payable to the collector, as
a joint and several liability, by every person who makes, executes, delivers,
accepts or presents for recording any document or in whose behalf any document
is made, executed, delivered, accepted or presented for recording. In the case
of an acquired company, the company shall also have liability for payment of
the tax. All such persons shall also be liable for any penalties imposed under
this Part.
   5.   It is the intent of this Part that the entire burden of the tax imposed
on a real estate transaction by the municipality and other political
subdivisions shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in Section 8 of the
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6908, so that if any other political
subdivision imposes a tax on real estate transactions taxed under this Part,
the provisions of said Section 8 shall apply.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 206. Evidence of Payment.
The payment of the tax imposed hereunder shall be evidenced by the collector
affixing on the document an official stamp or writing setting forth the date of
payment of the tax and the amount of tax paid.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 207. Exempt Parties.
The United States, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any of their
instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from
payment of the tax imposed by this Part. The exemption of such governmental
bodies shall not, however, relieve any other party to a real estate transaction
from liability for the tax.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 208. Excluded Transactions.
In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this Section, the true, full and
complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of value. For
leases of coal, oil, natural gas or minerals, the statement of value may be
limited to an explanation for the reason such document is not subject to tax
under this Part. The tax imposed by this Part shall not be imposed upon:
   A.   A transfer to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or to any of its
instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication, or
deed in lieu of condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with
condemnation proceedings or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the
property condemned to the owner of record at the time of condemnation, which
reconveyance may include property line adjustments, provided that said
reconveyance is made within one (1) year from the date of condemnation.
   B.   A document which the Township is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States.
   C.   A conveyance to a political subdivision, school district, or county
pursuant to acquisition by the political subdivision, school district, or
county of a tax delinquent property at Sheriffs sale or Tax Claim Bureau sale.
   D.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest.
   E.   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual consideration
of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by cotenants;
however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than their
undivided interest, tax is due on the excess.
   F.   A transfer between husband and wife; between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided that the
property or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the
husband and wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree
in divorce; between parent and child or the spouse of such child; between
brother or sister or spouse of a brother or sister and brother or sister or the
spouse of a brother or sister; and between a grandparent and grandchild or the
spouse of such grandchild; except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee
within one (1) year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such
transfer.
   G.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property passing
by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a decedent
to the decedent's devisee or heir.
   H.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of an
ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if the
transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the collector is presented
with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the grantor and all
possible beneficiaries.
   I.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to a
beneficiary of an ordinary trust.
   J.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee.
   K.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration between principal and
agent or straw party or from or to an agent or straw party where, if the agent
or straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be imposed under this
Part. Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or the
statement of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the
grantee from or for the benefit of his or her principal, there is a rebuttable
presumption that the property is the property of the grantee in his or her
individual capacity if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation under this
paragraph.
   L.   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation of a
corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where the
municipality reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this Part.
   M.   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held of
record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than two (2) years.
   N.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or authority as
security for a debt of the grantee, or a transfer to a nonprofit industrial
development agency or authority.
   O.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if:
      (1)   The grantee shall directly use such real estate for the primary
purpose of manufacturing, fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing,
research and development, transportation, energy conservation,
energyproduction, pollutioncontrol, warehousing or agriculture; and
      (2)   The agency or authority has the full ownership interest in the real
estate transferred.
   P.   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person.
   Q.   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or persons
holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not being or
has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
   R.   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses tax exempt status pursuant
to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and which has as its
primary purpose preservation of land for historic, recreational, scenic,
agricultural or open space opportunities or a transfer from such a conservancy
to the United States, the Commonwealth or to any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions.
   S.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to a
family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least seventy-five (75%) percent of each class of the stock thereof.
   T.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to a
family farm partnership by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least seventy-five (75%) percent of the interests in the family farm
partnership.
   U.   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership interest
in a real estate company, family farm corporation or family farm partnership
which owns real estate.
   V.   A transaction wherein the tax due is one dollar ($1.00) or less.
   W.   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas or
minerals and assignments thereof.
   X.   Any transfer of real estate which is exempt from realty transfer tax by
the statutes of the Commonwealth or regulations of the Pennsylvania Department
of Revenue in effect on the date of such transfer. It is the intent of this
subsection that the Township's realty transfer tax be in full compliance with
applicable laws and regulations including, but not limited to, Article IV-D of
the Tax Reform Code of 1971, as amended by Act 40 of 2005.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 209. Transfer Documents.
Except as otherwise provided in §
208, documents which make, confirm, or evidence any transfer or demise of title
to real estate between associations or corporations and the members, partners,
shareholders, thereof are fully taxable. For the purposes of this Part,
corporations and associations are entities separate from their members,
partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 210. Acquired Companies.
   1.   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change:
      A.   Does not affect the continuity of the company; and
      B.   Of itself or together with prior changes, has the effect of
transferring, directly or indirectly, ninety percent (90%) or more of the total
ownership interest in the company within a period of three (3) years.
   2.   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets, it fails to meet the minimum requirements of a family farm
corporation under this Part.
   3.   Within thirty (30) days after becoming an acquired company, the company
shall present a declaration of acquisition to the collector for recording and
for the affixation of the official stamp or writing evidencing payment of the
tax. Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in the Township.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 211. Credits Against Tax.
   1.   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   2.   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of a new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   3.   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   4.   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was previously
sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid
at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax due upon the
deed.
   5.   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given under
this Section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is greater
than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be allowed.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 212. Statement of Value.
Every document lodged with or presented to the collector for recording shall
set forth therein and as part of such document the true, full and complete
value thereof or shall be accompanied by a statement of value executed by a
responsible person connected with the transaction showing such connection and
setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the reason, if any,
why such document is not subject to tax under this Part. The provisions of this
Section shall not apply to any excludable real estate transfers which are
exempt from taxation based on family relationship, provided that the
relationship is specified in the deed, instrument or writing. Documents which
are not to be recorded shall be presented to the collector and shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the document and a statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part.
Evidence of payment shall be affixed to the original document and the certified
copy. The certified copy and the statement of value shall be filed with the
collector.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 213. Prohibited Acts.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      A.   Make, execute, deliver, accept or present for recording or cause to
be made, executed, delivered, accepted or presented for recording any document
without the full amount of tax thereon being duly paid.
      B.   Fail to record a declaration of acquisition, as required by this
Part.
      C.   Fraudulently affix to any document any forged evidence of payment.
      D.   Fail, neglect or refuse to comply with or violate other provisions
of this Part or any rules and regulations promulgated by the municipality under
this Part or any rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of
Revenue to the extent applicable to the tax levied hereunder.
   2.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
guilty of a summary offense.
   3.   A person who makes a false statement of value or declaration of
acquisition, when he or she does not believe the statement or declaration to be
true, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 214. Violations and Penalties.
   1.   If any tax owing under the terms of this Part shall not be paid when
due, ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax shall be added and collected as
an initial penalty for nonpayment or underpayment of the tax.
   2.   If any tax owing under the terms of this Part shall not be paid when
due, a penalty shall accrue on the amount of the unpaid tax at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month or fractional part of a month on the amount of the
unpaid tax, from the due date until the amount of the tax is paid in full.
   3.   In the case of failure of any acquired company to record a declaration
of acquisition, as required by this Part, unless it is shown to the
satisfaction of the Township that such failure is due to reasonable cause, a
penalty shall accrue on the amount of the unpaid tax at the rate of five
percent (5%) per month or fractional part of a month on the amount of the
unpaid tax from the due date until the amount of the tax is paid in full. This
penalty shall be in addition to all other penalties but shall not in the
aggregate exceed fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the unpaid tax.
   4.   If any part of any underpayment of tax is due to fraud, there shall be
added to the tax an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the underpayment.
   5.   If the Township files suit in order to collect the amount of any tax
not paid when due under this Part, at the discretion of the court, any person
liable for payment of the tax shall also be liable for reasonable attorneys'
fees incurred by the municipality in prosecution of the suit.
   6.   No document upon which tax is imposed by this Part shall at any time be
made the basis of any action or other legal proceeding, nor shall proof thereof
be offered or received in evidence in any court of this Commonwealth or
recorded in the office of any Recorder of Deeds of any county of this
Commonwealth unless the tax imposed hereunder shall have been paid in full and
evidence of payment shall have been affixed thereto by the collector.
   7.   In addition to the above penalties, if the Township or the collector
determines that a person has committed or permitted the commission of a
violation of this Part for which criminal penalties have not been established
by §
213, the Township shall inform such person in writing of the violation, shall
notify such person to cease the violation of this Part and shall inform such
person that he or she must pay a civil penalty to the Township within the range
of the amounts set forth below to settle the violation. The penalty for a first
offense shall be not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than six
hundred dollars ($600.00); the penalty for a second offense shall be not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than six hundred dollars
($600.00); and the penalty for a third or greater offense shall be not less
that two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than six hundred dollars
($600.00). If such person fails or refuses to remit the penalty to the Township
within ten (10) days from the date of the written notice of the violation of
this Part, the Township may commence a civil enforcement proceeding seeking
penalties and costs for the violation of this Part, and/or may commence an
action in equity. The Township shall seek a judgment for the penalty previously
imposed together with additional daily penalties for continuing violations plus
all court costs, including the reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the
Township in the enforcement proceedings. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation, and each Section of this Part which is
violated shall constitute a separate violation. If the defendant neither pays
nor timely appeals the judgment, the Township may enforce the judgment pursuant
to the applicable rules of civil procedure.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 215. Tax to Become a Lien.
The tax imposed by this Part, together with all penalties, shall be a lien
against the real estate to which the document relates and, in the case of an
acquired company, the real estate owned by the acquired company. The lien shall
date from the time when the tax is due and payable and shall continue until
discharged by payment in full of the tax, together with all penalties. In order
to enforce the lien, the Township may proceed under the Municipal Claims and
Tax Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. § 7101 et seq., or in any other appropriate
manner.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 216. Proceeds of Judicial Sale.
The tax imposed under this Part shall be fully paid and have priority out of
the proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made, and the Sheriff or other officer conducting said sale shall
pay the tax herein imposed out of the first moneys paid to him or her in
connection therewith. If the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to pay the
entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall be liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 217. Enforcement.
   1.   In order to determine whether the proper amount of tax has been paid,
without limiting any other rights of the municipality, the municipality shall
have the right to review all documents or records relating to any real estate
transaction or any related transactions and to take such other steps as the
municipality shall deem necessary or appropriate, including a review or audit
of any documents or records of any party to a real estate transactions to
determine the fair market value of the real estate or any other relevant matter
as determined by the municipality. Upon request of the municipality and at such
place and time as specified by the municipality, any party shall make available
to the municipality any documents or records requested by the municipality.
   2.   In the event that any tax is not paid when due, the municipality may
enforce payment of the tax, together with all penalties, by suit in assumpsit
or any other appropriate means.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 218. Collector.
   1.   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, the Recorder of Deeds of Lebanon
County shall be the collection agent for this tax, without compensation from
the Township.
   2.   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one (1) political subdivision, the collector shall not
accept for recording any document unless it is accompanied by a statement of
value showing what taxes are due each political subdivision.
   3.   On or before the 10th day of each month, the collector shall pay over
to the Township all taxes collected under this Part, less two percent (2%) for
use of the County, and shall also provide a report containing the information
required by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in reporting collections of the
Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax. The two percent (2%)commission shall be paid
to the County.
   4.   In accordance with 72 P.S. § 8109-C(b), any Recorder of Deeds who shall
record any document upon which tax is imposed under this Part without payment
of tax as required under this Part as is indicated in the document or
accompanying statement of value shall, upon summary conviction, be sentenced to
pay a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
§ 219. Interpretation; Effect.
   1.   To the extent that this Part imposes a tax on a real estate transaction
which is subject to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania realty transfer tax
imposed by Act 77 of 1986, as amended, and to the extent not inconsistent
herewith or with rules or regulations adopted by the municipality, this Part
shall be interpreted in the same manner as Act 77 of 1986, as amended, and in
accordance with regulations promulgated thereunder.
   2.   This Part shall impose a tax on all transactions which the Township is
permitted to tax under Act 77 of 1986, as amended, to the fullest extent
possible.
(Ord. 2-13-08-1, 2/13/2008, § 1)
CHAPTER 25
TREES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 26
WATER
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 27
ZONING
Part 1
Definitions
   §
101.   General Usage
   §
102.   Specific Terms Defined
Part 2
Establishment of Districts; Provisions for Official Zoning Map
   §
201.   Official Zoning Map
   §
202.   Replacement of the Official Zoning Map
   §
203.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries
   §
204.   Use Districts
Part 3
Application of District Regulations
   §
301.   Uniformity of Application
   §
302.   Compliance Required for Subsequent Changes in Use
   §
303.   Buildings and Structures
   §
304.   Required Yards and Spaces Not to be Shared
   §
305.   Lots and Yards Must Meet Minimum Requirements
   §
306.   Proposed Uses Not Covered
   §
307.   Future Annexations of Territory
Part 4
A - Agricultural Districts
   §
401.   Intent
   §
402.   Permitted Uses
   §
403.   General District Requirements
   §
404.   Lot and Yard Requirements
   §
405.   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Part 5
RR - Rural Residential Districts
   §
501.   Intent
   §
502.   Permitted Uses
   §
503.   Lot Area, Building Height, and Yard Requirements
   §
504.   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
   §
505.   Ecological Safeguards
Part 6
R-1 Low Density Residential District
   §
601.   Intent
   §
602.   Permitted Uses
   §
603.   Lot Area, Building Height and Yard Requirements
   §
604.   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
   §
605.   Greenway Requirement
Part 7
R-2 Medium Density Residential District
   §
701.   Intent
   §
702.   Permitted Uses
   §
703.   Lot Area, Building Height, and Yard Requirements
   §
704.   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
   §
705.   Greenway Requirement
Part 8
C-1 General Commercial District
   §
801.   Intent
   §
802.   Permitted Uses
   §
803.   Performance Required
   §
804.   Lot Area, Building Height and Yard Requirements
   §
805.   Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Part 9
C-2 Highway Commercial Districts
   §
901.   Intent
   §
902.   Permitted Uses
   §
903.   Performance Required
   §
904.   Lot Area, Building Height and Yard Requirements
   §
905.   Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   §
906.   No Outside Storage
Part 10
I - Industrial Districts
   §
1001.   Intent
   §
1002.   Permitted Uses
   §
1003.   Special Exception Use
   §
1004.   Use Limitations
   §
1005.   Lot Area, Lot Width, and Coverage Requirements
   §
1006.   Setback Requirements
   §
1007.   Building Height Requirements
   §
1008.   Design Features/Bonus Incentives
Part 11
Floodplain District
   §
1101.   Intent
   §
1102.   Applicability
   §
1103.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
   §
1104.   Severability
   §
1105.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
   §
1106.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   §
1107.   Permits Required
   §
1108.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   §
1109.   Application Procedures and Requirements
   §
1110.   Review of Application by Others
   §
1111.   Changes
   §
1112.   Placards
   §
1113.   Start of Construction
   §
1114.   Enforcement
   §
1115.   Appeals
   §
1116.   Identification of Floodplain Areas
   §
1117.   Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain Areas
   §
1118.   Changes in Identification of Area
   §
1119.   Boundary Disputes
   §
1120.   Jurisdictional Boundary Changes
   §
1121.   Technical Provisions
   §
1122.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements
   §
1123.   Design and Construction Standards
   §
1124.   Development that may Endanger Human Life
   §
1125.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions and Development
   §
1126.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
   §
1127.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles
   §
1128.   Prohibited Activities
   §
1129.   Existing Structures
   §
1130.   Improvements
   §
1131.   Variances
   §
1132.   Variance Procedures and Conditions
   §
1133.   Definitions
   §
1134.   Specific Definitions
Part 12
Conditional Use Procedures
   §
1201.   Conditional Use Applications
   §
1202.   General Criteria
   §
1203.   Conditions
   §
1204.   Notice and Hearing for Conditional Use Application
   §
1205.   Site Plan
   §
1206.   Expiration of Conditional Use Approval
   §
1207.   Number of Applications Which May Be Pending
Part 13
Nonconforming Lots Nonconforming Uses of Land Nonconforming Structures
Nonconforming
Uses of Structures and Premises and Nonconforming Characteristics of Use
   §
1301.   Intent
   §
1302.   Nonconforming Lots of Record
   §
1303.   Nonconforming Uses of Land (or Land With Minor Structures Only)
   §
1304.   Nonconforming Structures
   §
1305.   Nonconforming Uses of Structures and Premises in Combination
   §
1306.   Repairs and Maintenance
   §
1307.   Uses Under Special Exception Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
Part 14
Supplementary District Regulations
   §
1401.   Visibility at Intersections
   §
1402.   Lots in Two Districts
   §
1403.   Front Yard Exceptions
   §
1404.   Foundations
   §
1405.   Erection of More Than One Principal Structure on a Lot
   §
1406.   Accessory Buildings
   §
1407.   Projections Into Yards
   §
1408.   Accessory Uses
   §
1409.   Exception to Height Regulations
   §
1410.   Lots and Structures to Have Access
   §
1411.   Parking, Storage, or Use of Major Recreational Equipment
   §
1412.   Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles
   §
1413.   Corner Lot Restrictions
   §
1414.   Municipal Uses
   §
1415.   Public Utilities Exempted
   §
1416.   Home Occupation Regulations
   §
1417.   Gasoline Pumps and All Other Service Equipment
   §
1418.   Screening and Landscaping Requirements
   §
1419.   Required Traffic Study Standards
   §
1420.   Industrial Performance Standards
   §
1421.   Commercial Performance Standards
   §
1422.   Adult Uses
   §
1423.   Forestry Activities
   §
1424.   Obscenity
   §
1425.   Neighborhood Greenway Development
   §
1426.   Residential Subdivisions and Land Development of Six or More Lots or
Dwelling Units
   §
1427.   Oil and Gas Operations
   §
1428.   Accessory Dwelling Units
   §
1429.   Communication Antennas, Towers and Equipment
   §
1430.   Short Term Rentals
   §
1431.   Solar Energy Facilities
Part 15
Off-Street Parking
   §
1501.   Off-Street Parking Facilities, When Required
   §
1502.   Continuation of Parking Facilities
   §
1503.   Standards and Definitions
   §
1504.   Schedule of Minimum Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
   §
1505.   Separate or Combined Use of Facilities
   §
1506.   Parking and Garage Facilities for Residences
   §
1507.   Site Plan Approval
   §
1508.   Surfacing
   §
1509.   Separation from Streets and Sidewalks
   §
1510.   Drainage
   §
1511.   Parking Space Size
   §
1512.   Handicap Parking Spaces
   §
1513.   Parking Spaces and Interior Drives
   §
1514.   Off-Street Loading Areas
   §
1515.   Lighting
   §
1516.   Access Drive Requirements
Part 16
Signs
   §
1601.   Definitions
   §
1602.   Intent
   §
1603.   General Regulations
   §
1604.   Signs Permitted in all Districts
   §
1605.   Signs in Agricultural Districts
   §
1606.   Signs in Residential Districts
   §
1607.   Signs in General Commercial, Highway Commercial and Industrial
Districts
   §
1608.   Electrically Activated Changeable Signs and Electronic Reader Boards/
Message Centers
   §
1609.   Nonconforming Signs
Part 17
Building Permits and Certificates of Zoning Compliance
   §
1701.   Administration and Enforcement
   §
1702.   Building Permits Required
   §
1703.   Application for Building and Zoning Permit
   §
1704.   Certificates of Zoning Compliance for New, Altered, or Nonconforming
Uses
   §
1705.   Temporary Use Permits
   §
1706.   Expiration of Building Permit
   §
1707.   Construction and Use to be Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits and
Certificates of Zoning Compliance
Part 18
Zoning Hearing Board; Establishment and Procedure
   §
1801.   Establishment and Membership
   §
1802.   Organization
   §
1803.   Expenditures for Services
   §
1804.   Hearings
   §
1805.   Effect of Zoning Hearing Board's Decision
Part 19
Zoning Hearing Board; Powers and Duties
   §
1901.   Appeals from the Zoning Officer
   §
1902.   Substantive Challenges to the Validity of the Zoning Ordinance
   §
1903.   Variances.
   §
1904.   Special Exceptions
   §
1905.   Appeals Regarding the Floodplain Zone
   §
1906.   Appeals Regarding Development Rights and Density
   §
1907.   Appeals Regarding Sedimentation and Erosion Control and Stormwater
Management
   §
1908.   Appeals from a Notice of Violation Issued Under Part 17 of this Chapter
   §
1909.   Parties Appellant Before the Zoning Hearing Board
   §
1910.   Time Limitations
   §
1911.   Stay of Proceedings
Part 20
Administrative Matters
   §
2001.   Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses
   §
2002.   Amendments
   §
2003.   Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements
   §
2004.   Complaints Regarding Violations
   §
2005.   Penalties for Violations
   §
2006.   Separability Clause
   §
2007.   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances; Effective Date
   
Zoning Map Amendments
Part 1
Definitions
§ 101. General Usage.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall, for the purpose
of this Chapter, have the meaning herein indicated:
   1.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. The singular
includes the plural.
   2.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as individual.
   3.   The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel".
   4.   The term "shall" is always mandatory, the word "may" is permissive.
   5.   The word "used or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall
be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used
or occupied".
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 1)
§ 102. Specific Terms Defined.
ACCESSORY BUILDING - a building detached from and subordinate to the principal
building on the same lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the
principal building, but not construed to include vehicles, mobile homes, travel
trailers or any parts thereof.
ACCESSORY DWELLING - An additional dwelling unit created by the addition to or
conversion of an existing principal dwelling or by the placement of a
manufactured home on a lot containing an existing single family detached
dwelling which may be occupied only by persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption to the occupants of the principal dwelling. [Ord. 1-9-19]
ACCESSORY USE - a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or
building.
ADULT BOOKSTORE - ause with a significant portion of the market value of, or
over 15 square feet of total floor area occupied by, items for sale or rent
being books, films, magazines, videotapes, coin- or token-operated films or
videotapes, paraphernalia, novelties, or other periodicals which are distin-
guished or characterized by a clear emphasis on matter depicting, displaying,
describing or relating to uncovered male or female genitals or specified sexual
activities. This shall include but not be limited to materials that would be
illegal to sell to persons under age 18 under State law. [Ord. 91102]
ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY - a use including live entertainment
involving persons (which may include, but not be limited to, waiters,
waitresses, dancers, clerks, bartenders, contractors or others) displaying
uncovered male or female genitals or nude or almost nude female breasts or
engaging in simulated or actual specified sexual activities related to some
form of monetary compensation paid to a person, company or organization
operating the use or to persons involved in such activity. [Ord. 91102]
ADULT MOVIE THEATER - a use involving the presentation to three or more persons
at one time in a room of motion pictures, videotapes or similarly reproduced
images distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depiction of specified
sexual activities for observation by such persons and that is related to some
form of monetary compensation paid by the persons viewing such matter. [Ord.
91102]
ADULT USE - this term shall include any of the following uses: Adult Bookstore,
Adult Movie Theater, Massage Parlor or Adult Live Entertainment Facility/Use.
[Ord. 91102]
AGRICULTURE - includes the cultivation of the soil for food products or other
useful or valuable growths of the field or garden, horticulture, animal
husbandry, apiculture, aviculture, etc.
AIRPORT - an airstrip/landing strip where aircraft can land and take off,
usually equipped with hangers, facilities for refueling and repair, accommoda-
tions for passengers, freight, etc.
AIRSTRIP/LANDING STRIP - an area adapted with minimal improvements for use as a
temporary runway for aircraft.
ALTERATIONS - as applied to a building or structure, any change or
rearrangement of the total floor area, or any enlargement, whether by extending
on a side or by increasing in height, or moving from one (1) location or
position to another.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL - any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
AREA, LOT - the total area within the lot lines, excluding right-of-way areas.
BLOCK - an area bounded by three (3) or more streets.
BUILDING - any structure having a roof supported by columns, piers or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of human beings, animals, or
chattel, including covered porches, bay windows, and chimneys, or for use and
occupation for some purpose of trade or manufacture.
BUILDING AREA - the total areas of outside dimensions on a horizontal place at
ground level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
cornices, eaves, gutters, or chimneys projecting not more than eighteen inches
(18"); bay windows not extending through more than one (1) story and not
projecting more than five feet (5'); steps and balconies.
BUILDING, DETACHED - a building surrounded by open space on the same lot as the
principal building.
BUILDING HEIGHT - the vertical dimensions measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front of the building to the highest point of
the ceiling of the top story in the case of a flat roof; to the deckline of a
mansard roof; and to the average height between the plate and ridge of a gable,
hip or gambrel roof.
BUILDING LINE - a line parallel to the front, side or rear lot line or public
right-of-way line set so as to provide the required yard setback.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL - a non-accessory building in which the principal use of
the lot is conducted.
BUILDING, SEMI-DETACHED - a building which has one (1) wall in common with an
adjacent building.
BULK - a term used to describe the size, volume, area, or shape of buildings or
structures, and their physical relationship to each other, to open space, or to
tracts of land, to lot lines, or to other buildings or structures.
CARPORT - See Garage, Private.
CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE - a certificate issued and enforced by the
Zoning Officer upon the completion of the construction of a new building or
upon a change or conversion of a structure or use of a building which certifies
that the applicant has complied with any and all requirements and regulations
as provided herein and all other applicable requirements.
COMMON OPEN SPACE - a parcel of land or water or combination of both located
within a development site and designed and intended for the use or enjoyment of
residents of a planned development not including streets, off-street parking
areas, and areas set aside for public facilities.
COMMONS - a spatially defined element of open space distributed strategically
within a Neighborhood Greenway Development such that it provides a focal point
for residences as well as a gathering place for residents and an assembly area
for community functions. Permanent structures directly related to the intended
function of the commons may be included in this space in addition to
landscaping and lighting elements. [Ord. 61406]
COMMUNICATION ANTENNA - any facility for the transmission, broadcast or
reception of radio, television, shortwave, electromagnetic, cellular, wireless
or other waveband signals of a similar nature, which are designed or used for
the purpose of transmitting, broadcasting or receiving visual, audio,
electronic or other information or data including, without limitation, such
facilities for cellular or other wireless telephones, pagers and beepers. Such
facilities do not include receiving facilities which are for the sole use of
individual consumers and which are located on the lot on which such individual
consumer resides. [Ord. 2-14-18-1]
COMMUNICATION TOWER - any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod, equipment
shelter, or any other structure which supports a device used in transmitting or
receiving cellular telephone, beeper, radio frequency energy, or other
frequencies used in the communications industry including, but not limited to,
communication antennas and satellite dishes used to transmit and/or receive
data. [Ord. 2-14-18-1]
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - the Comprehensive Plan for the Township adopted by the
Board of Supervisors in accordance with Article III of the MPC. [Ord. 61406]
CONDITIONAL USE - a use which is approved by the Board of Supervisors after
review and recommendation by the Township Planning Commission. [Ord. 10-10-01]
DEVELOPMENT PLAN - the provisions for the development of a planned residential
development, including a plat of subdivision; all covenants relating to use,
location and bulk of buildings and other structures; intensity of use or
density of development; streets, ways and parking facilities; common open
space, and public facilities.
DISTRICT - a portion of South Annville Township within which certain uniform
regulations and requirements or combinations thereof apply under the provisions
of this Chapter.
DOG KENNEL - any premises, except where accessory to an agricultural use, where
three (3) or more dogs, ten (10) weeks in age or older, are kept or boarded.
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT - a commercial establishment where food or beverage is sold
for consumption on the premises but not necessarily within a building.
DWELLING, APARTMENT - a dwelling unit for rent or lease within multi-family or
group buildings providing separate, independent living and sanitary facilities
for one (1) family, including provisions for cooking and sleeping. An apartment
dwelling may include an efficiency unit where no specific bedroom is provided
or a unit containing one (1) or more bedrooms.
DWELLING, GROUP - a group of two (2) or more single family, two-family, or
multi-family dwellings occupying a lot in one (1) ownership.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY - a building designed for or occupied exclusively by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other and doing their
own cooking, including apartment houses.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY - a detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one (1) family, but shall not be construed to include single
unit mobile homes.
DWELLING TWO-FAMILY - a detached or semi-detached, residential building
containing two (2) dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two
(2) families.
DWELLING UNIT - one (1) or more rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment used for residential occupancy
and physically separated from any other room or dwelling units which may be in
the same structure, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities
for one (1) family. [Ord. 5-12-21-1]
FAMILY - one (1) or more persons occupying a dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain over five (5) persons, but provided further that domestic servants
employed on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as
a family or families.
FARM - all contiguous land held in single or separate ownership of ten (10)
acres or more regardless or whether:
   A.   Such land is divided into one (1) or more lots, parcels, purports or
tracts.
   B.   Such land was acquired by the landowner at different times or by
different deeds, devise, partition or otherwise.
   C.   Such land is bisected by public or private streets or rights-of-way.
[Ord. 1-14-98]
FEEDLOT - a feedlot shall be determined to be any of the following facilities:
(1) any tract of land or structure wherein any type of fowl or the by-products
thereof are raised for sale at wholesale, or retail; (2) any structure, pen or
corral wherein cattle, horses, sheep, goats, and swine are maintained in close
quarters for the purpose of fattening such livestock for final shipment to
market; (3) the raising of swine under any conditions.
FLOOD AREA, LIVABLE - the sum of the horizontal areas of all rooms used for
habitation, such as living rooms, dining room, kitchen or bedroom but not
including hallways, stairways, cellars, attics, garages, enclosed porches and
roofed terraces, nor unheated areas such as enclosed porches. At least one-half
feet (1/2') of the floor area of every habitable room shall have a ceiling
height of not less than seven feet (7'), and the floor area of the part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not be
considered as part of the livable floor area.
FUEL DISPENSING FACILITY - a facility for the retail sale of gasoline and other
fuel for motor vehicles, including trucks, buses and other commercial vehicles.
A fuel dispensing facility shall have multiple fuel dispensers for the diesel
fueling of at least two (2) large-sized vehicles at the same time. It shall
also have multiple fuel dispensers for the fueling of at least five (5)
standard-sized vehicles at the same time. Large-sized vehicles are tractor-
trailers, dump trucks, fire engines, buses, motor homes and similar vehicles.
Standard-sized vehicles are cars, vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles. A
fuel dispensing facility shall not include motor vehicle sales, service or
repair facilities but may include retail sales of food and related items in a
building which shall not exceed seventy-five hundred (7,500) square feet. The
building shall not have a drive-through facility for the pick-up of food and
related items. [Ord. 10-14-15]
GARAGE, PRIVATE - a building or space used as an accessory to the principal
building which provides for the storage of motor vehicles of the families
residing upon the premises and in which no occupation, business or service for
profit is carried on.
GARAGE, PUBLIC - any garage other than a private garage, which is used for
storage, repair, rental, servicing, or supplying of gasoline or oil to motor
vehicles.
GASOLINE SERVICE STATION - a structure, building or area of land or any portion
thereof that is used primarily for the sale of gasoline or other motor fuel
which may or may not include facilities for lubricating, washing, selling of
accessories, and otherwise servicing motor vehicles, including minor repairs,
but not including body or paint shops. Any business or industry dispensing
gasoline solely for its own use and vehicles will not be deemed to be a
gasoline service station.
GRADE, FINISHED - the completed surface of lawns, walks, and roads brought to
grades as shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
GREENS - a spatially defined element of open space designed to serve a variety
of outdoor leisure and assembly needs. Landscaping, lighting, and accessory
structures integral to the function of the greens may be included. [Ord. 61406]
GROUP FOSTER HOME - a facility for mentally ill or mentally retarded adults and
children. The home is maintained solely for the admission of not more than
thirteen (13) mentally ill and/or emotionally disturbed or mentally retarded
patients, who are provided with a program of service and protective supervision
in a home setting and in which twenty-four (24) hour adult care and supervision
is available through appropriate local and state agencies.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING - the vertical distance measured from the mean level of the
ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest and
lowest point of the roof, but not including chimneys, spires, towers, elevator
pent houses, tanks and similar projections.
HOME OCCUPATION - a lawful, gainful service oriented occupation or profession
other than a no-impact home-based business that is operated by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises and where the occupation or
profession is conducted wholly within and as an accessory use to a principal
dwelling. The conduct of a clinic, hospital, tea room, tourist home, animal
hospital, kennel or automobile services or any similar use shall not be
considered a home occupation. [Ord. 91102]
HOSPITAL - a place for the diagnosis, treatment, or other care of humans and
having facilities for inpatient care including such establishments as a
sanatarium, sanatorium, and preventorium.
HOTEL OR LODGING HOUSE - a building used as the more or less temporary abiding
place of three (3) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged with
or without meals, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any
individual room or suite.
JUNK YARD - a lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collecting, storage, and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, or
discarded material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging
of machinery or vehicles not in running condition and for the sale of parts
thereof.
LARGE SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM - An area of land or other area used for a
solar collection system principally used to capture solar energy and convert it
to electrical energy. Large solar energy production facilities consist of one
(1) or more free-standing ground, or roof mounted solar collector devices,
solar related equipment and other accessory structures and buildings including
light reflectors, concentrators, and heat exchangers, substations, electrical
infrastructure, transmission lines and other appurtenant structures and
facilities. A facility is considered a large solar energy production facility
if it supplies electrical or thermal power solely for off-site use. [Ord. 1-12-
22]
LAUNDROMAT - a business premises equipped with individual clothes washing and/
or drying machines for the use of retail customers, exclusive of laundry
facilities provided as an accessory use in an apartment house or an apartment
hotel.
LOADING SPACE - an off-street space not less than twelve feet (12') wide and
fifty-five feet (55') long exclusive of access area, for the parking of one (1)
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT - a single tract or parcel of land, which may legally be described as such,
held in single or joint ownership, which is occupied or capable of being
occupied by one (1) principal building or principal use together with such
accessory buildings, structures, and such open spaces as are arranged and
permitted by this Chapter.
LOT AREA - an area of land which is determined by the limits of the property
line bounding that area and expressed in terms of square feet or acres. Any
portion of a lot included in a street right-of-way shall not be included in
calculating lot area.
LOT, CORNER - a lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more intersecting streets, and which has an interior angle of less than one
hundred and thirty-five degrees (135°) at the intersection of the two (2)
street lines.
LOT COVERAGE - the percentage of the lot area covered with an impervious
surface (e.g., buildings, driveways, parking areas, sidewalks). [Ord. 10-10-01]
LOT DEPTH - a mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR - a lot other than a corner lot, the sides of which do not abut a
street.
LOT LINE - any line dividing one (1) lot from another lot, street or parcel.
LOT, THROUGH - an interior lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT WIDTH - the horizontal distance between the side lot lines. Required lot
width shall be measured at the required setback line; however, the mean lot
width shall not be less than the required lot width.
MAP OR ZONING MAP - the zoning maps of Lebanon County and South Annville
Township, Lebanon County. [Ord. 10-78]
MASSAGE PARLOR - an establishment that meets all the following criteria: (i)
massages are conducted; (ii) the use does not meet the definition of "massage
therapy, certified" and the person conducting the massage is not licensed as a
health care professional by the State; (iii) the massages are not conducted
within a licensed hospital or nursing home or an office of a medical doctor or
chiropractor; (iv) the massages are conducted within private or semi-private
rooms; and (v) the use is not clearly a customary and incidental accessory use
to a permitted exercise club or to a high school or college athletic program.
[Ord. 91102]
MASSAGE THERAPY, CERTIFIED - a use involving the performance of massages by a
person licensed by the State as a massage therapist or certified by a
recognized national organization that requires substantial professional
training. [Ord. 91102]
MEDICAL HOSPITALITY HOUSE - A residential building owned and operated by a not
for profit organization for the purpose of providing temporary housing to
individuals receiving care or who have minors or other immediate family members
admitted overnight to or receiving care at a hospital located within ten (10)
miles of the facility to enable the individuals to remain close to the hospital
during their or the patient's receipt of medical care. A medical hospitality
house may include quarters for a house manager. [Ord. 9-14-22]
MOBILE HOME - a transportable, single unit dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, office or place of assembly contained in one (1) unit or in two (2)
units designed to be joined into one (1) integral unit capable of again being
separated for repeated towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operation, and
constructed so that it may be used without a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME COURT OR PARK - any site, lot, or tract of land upon which two (2)
or more authorized mobile homes are parked permanently or temporarily, either
free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any appurtenant
facilities used or designed as part of the equipment of such mobile home court
or park.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION - an area planned, designed and improved exclusively
for three (3) or more mobile home dwelling units where said lots are sold
rather than rented.
MODULAR HOME - a sectional, single family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in two (2) or more units designed to be permanently joined
into one (1) integral unit, which arrives at a site complete and ready for
occupancy except for assembly operations and construction of the necessary
permanent foundation.
MOTEL - a building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connected
units, used as individual sleeping, or dwelling units, designated with separate
entrances and designed for occupancy primarily for transient automobile
travelers, and provided with accessory off-street parking facilities. The term
"motel" includes buildings designated as tourist courts, tourist cabins, motor
lodges, and similar terms, but shall not be construed to include mobile or
immobile trailers or homes.
MPC - the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act of July 31, 1968, P.L.
805, No. 247, as reenacted and amended, 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq., and as may be
subsequently amended. [Ord. 91102]
MUNICIPALITY - South Annville Township, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER - a facility designed to provide space for one (1) or more
neighborhood facilities. A neighborhood center may also include small retail or
personal service establishments which are designed to serve a pedestrian-
oriented clientele from a Neighborhood Greenway Development. [Ord. 61406]
NEIGHBORHOOD FACILITY - meeting rooms, multi-purpose spaces, and similar spaces
available for the use of residents of the Neighborhood Greenway Development;
library; adult education classroom; and satellite offices for municipal
agencies (including, but not limited to, a community police station), social
service agencies, and non-profit organizations. [Ord. 61406]
NEIGHBORHOOD GREENWAY DEVELOPMENT - the dwelling units, residential accessory
uses, neighborhood center, open spaces, and nonresidential structures installed
or to be installed upon a Neighborhood Greenway Development tract in accordance
with the provisions of §
1425 of this Chapter. [Ord. 61406]
NEIGHBORHOOD GREENWAY DEVELOPMENT TRACT - the land, which may be comprised of
one (1) or more lots, which is proposed to be developed as a single, unified
Neighborhood Greenway Development in accordance with the provisions of §
1425 of this Chapter. [Ord. 61406]
NO-IMPACT HOME-BASED BUSINESS - a business or commercial activity administered
or conducted as an accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a
residential dwelling and which involves no customer, client or patient traffic,
whether vehicular or pedestrian, pick-up, delivery or removal functions to or
from the premises, in excess of those normally associated with residential use.
The business or commercial activity must satisfy all of the following
requirements:
   A.   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential use of
the property and surrounding residential uses.
   B.   The business shall employ no employees other than family members
residing in the dwelling.
   C.   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no stockpiling or
inventory of a substantial nature.
   D.   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use, including, but
not limited to, parking, signs or lights.
   E.   The business activity may not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood.
   F.   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with residential
use in the neighborhood.
   G.   The business activity shall be conducted only within the dwelling and
may not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the habitable floor area.
   H.   The business may not involve any illegal activities. [Ord. 91102]
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE - a building/structure or part thereof,
which at the time of the passage of this Chapter or any subsequent amendments
thereto, does not comply with the provisions of this Chapter or such
amendments, with regard to restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yard
requirements, location on the lot, or other similar requirements.
NONCONFORMING LOT - a lot of record existing at the date of the passage of this
Chapter or any amendments thereto, which does not at this time have the minimum
lot width or contain the minimum lot area for the zoning district in which it
is located.
NONCONFORMING USE - a use, whether land, building, or structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions of this Chapter, or subsequent
amendments thereto, where such use was lawfully in existence at the time of the
enactment of this Chapter or amendments thereto.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME - a building with sleeping rooms where persons are
housed or lodged and furnished with meals and nursing care for hire.
OFFICE BUILDING - a building designed for or used as the offices of
professional, commercial, industrial, religious, public or semi-public
organizations.
OPEN SPACE - land that has been restricted from development so as to achieve
one (1) or more of the objectives as specified in § 1425.6.A of this Chapter.
Such area is intended for the common use and enjoyment of residents of a
Neighborhood Greenway Development and may include such complementary structures
and improvements as are necessary and appropriate including, but not limited
to, walking trails, fitness stations, educational signage or other recreational
improvements and amenities. Open space shall not include any of the following:
residential or neighborhood center lots or portions of lots, streets, parking
areas (other than parking areas serving facilities within with open space),
above ground utilities, or other infrastructure. Floodplains, wetlands,
historic resources and recreational facilities may be incorporated within any
area designated as open space except as provided in §
1425.6.O of this Chapter. [Ord. 61406]
OPEN SPACE AND GREENWAYS PLAN - the plan of South Annville Township
which generally prescribes the standards for and identifies the location of
residential development in the Township which incorporates designated open
space in ways to protect and preserve natural, historical and cultural
resources and scenic views, provide useable recreation area and public space,
and interconnect with existing or planned open space, recreation or pedestrian
facilities. [Ord. 61406]
PARKING LOT - an off-street surfaced area designed solely for the parking of
motor vehicles, including driveways, passageways, and maneuvering space
appurtenant thereto.
PARKING SPACE - the space within a building or on a lot or parking lot, for the
parking or storage of one (1) automobile. The minimum size of said space shall
be two hundred (200) square feet or dimensions of ten feet (10') by twenty feet
(20'), exclusive of passageways and driveways and not an integral portion of
the street. [See also, §
1502 Standards and Definitions for Off-Street Parking]
PERMIT - building and zoning permit issued by Zoning Officer.
PREMISES - any lot or tract of land and any building or buildings constructed
thereon.
PRIVATE ROAD - see Private Street. [Ord. 9-13-23]
PRIVATE STREET - a legally established right-of-way, other than a public
street, which provides the primary vehicular access to a lot. [Ord. 9-13-23]
RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY - The occupancy of a dwelling unit by the same family for
a period of not less than 30 continuous days.[Ord. 5-12-21-1]
RETREAT - a facility in a private, natural area, free from distractions thus
allowing retreat participants to focus on the goals and objectives of the
retreat or allowing individuals opportunity for solitude and reflection and
which may provide meals and housing for participants only during the period of
the retreat or program only. All kitchen and dining facilities shall be located
in a single centrally located building or buildings. [Ord. 9804]
ROAD CLASSIFICATION - a designation given a road in accordance with its
function as a carrier of traffic. For the purposes of this Chapter, the
following classifications shall apply:
   A.   Arterial - a road whose function is to provide for high volumes of
traffic between communities.
   B.   Collector - a road whose function is to provide the movement of traffic
to community facilities and carry larger volumes of traffic to the arterial
road system.
      (1)   Internal Collector - a road whose function is to provide for the
movement of the traffic within and is constructed as part of a subdivision or
land development to carry traffic from local to arterial roads.
   C.   Local - a road whose function is to provide for local traffic movement
and direct access to abutting properties.
      (1)   Internal Local Street - a road whose function is to provide for
local traffic within and is constructed as part of a subdivision or land
development.
   D.   Existing Perimeter Street - any street as defined herein that is in
existence, or is under construction in accordance with a subdivi-sion or land
development by the applicable governing body, on the effective date of this
amendment to the South Annville Township Zoning Ordinance. For the purposes of
this Chapter, this term shall also include any portion of any existing street
proposed to be relocated as part of any subdivision or land development.
[Ord. 10-10-01]
ROW HOUSE - see Townhouse. [Ord. 9-13-23]
SANITARIUM, SANATORIUM - a private hospital whether or not such facility is
operated for profit.
SCREEN PLANTING - a vegetative material of sufficient height and density to
screen the view from adjoining districts of the structures and uses on the
premises upon which the screen planting is located.
SETBACK - the horizontal distance from a lot line to the part of the building
nearest to such lot line.
SHORT TERM RENTAL - The use of a structure which would be considered a single
family detached dwelling if used for residential occupancy in a manner which
does not meet the definition of residential occupancy.[Ord. 5-12-21-1]
SIGN - [See, §
1601 - Definition of Signs]
SITE PLAN - a plan of a lot or subdivision on which is shown topography;
location of all buildings, structures, roads, rights-of-way, boundaries; all
essential dimensions and bearings; and any other information deemed necessary
by the Township in unusual or special cases.
SMALL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM - A solar collection system consisting of one (1) or
more roof and/or ground mounted solar collector devices and solar related
equipment, and is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility
power. A system is considered a small solar energy system only if it supplies
electrical or thermal power solely for on-site use, except that when a property
upon which the facility is installed also receives electrical power supplied by
a utility company, excess electrical power generated and not presently needed
for on-site use may be used by the utility company. [Ord. 1-12-22]
SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEM - A solar photovoltaic cell, panel, or array, or solar
hot air or water collector device, which relies upon solar radiation as an
energy source for collection, inversion, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for electricity generation or transfer of stored heat. [Ord. 1-12-22]
SOLAR RELATED EQUIPMENT - Items including a solar photovoltaic cell, panel, or
array, or solar hot air or water collector device panels, lines, pumps,
batteries, mounting brackets, framing and possibly foundations used for or
intended to be used for collection of solar energy. [Ord. 1-12-22]
SPECIAL EXCEPTION - a use specified in district regulations which is permitted
only if the Zoning Hearing Board grants approval for issuance of a permit
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES - one or more of the following: (i) human male
genitals in a visible state of sexual stimulation; (ii) acts of human
masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral sex or sodomy; or (iii) fondling or
other erotic touching of human genitals. [Ord. 91102]
STORY - a story is that part of a building between the surface of any floor and
the next floor above it or, in its absence, then the finished ceiling or roof
above it. A "split level" story shall be considered a second story if its floor
level is six feet (6') or more above the level of the line of the finished
floor next below it. Any floor under a sloping roof at the top of a building
which is more than two feet (2') below the top plate shall be counted as a
story; and, if less than two feet (2') below the top plate, shall be counted as
a half (1/2) story.
STREET - includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway,
lane, alley, viaduct and any other used or intended to be used by vehicular
traffic or pedestrians whether public or private. [Ord. 10-10-01]
STREET LINE - the line determining the limit of the street or public right-of-
way, either existing or contemplated. Also referred to as the street lot line
or road right-of-way line. Where a definite right-of-way width has not been
established, the street line shall be determined as a line twenty-five feet
(25') from the centerline of the existing street.
STRUCTURE - any man-made object having an ascertainable stationary location on
or in land or water or attached to something having a fixed location on or in
land or water.
SUBDIVISION - the division or redivision of a lot, or parcel of land by any
means into two (2) or more lots, parcels, or other division of land including
changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
lease transfer or ownership, or building or lot development; provided, however,
that the division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more than
ten (10) acres, not involving any new street or easement of access, shall be
exempted.
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE - the Lebanon County Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance [
Chapter 22], as amended and as it may be amended or reenacted, or any ordinance
enacted by the Board of Supervisors in the future which governs subdivision and
land development within the Township. [Ord. 61406]
TOWNHOUSE - a multi-family dwelling consisting of not more than eight (8)
attached single family dwelling units, separated by an unpierced party wall,
each single family dwelling unit having a separate entrance from the outside,
parking and service in the front, and a semi-private rear yard area.
TOWNSHIP - South Annville Township, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania. [Ord. 9-13-
23]
TRAVEL TRAILER - a vehicular portable structure built on a chassis (motorized
home, converted bus, tent trailer, tent or similar device) designed to be used
as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes.
TRAVEL TRAILER CAMP OR PARK - any site, lot or tract of land upon which
provisions are made to accommodate any travel trailer and/or similar temporary
dwelling for travel or recreation purposes for short-term occupancy, either
free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any appurtenant
facilities used or designed as part of the equipment of such travel trailer
camp or park.
USE - the specific purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged,
intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
VARIANCE - a modification of the regulations of this Chapter granted by the
Zoning Hearing Board to the applicant on grounds of practical difficul-ties or
an unnecessary hardship, not self-imposed, pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter and Act 247, Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
YARD - a required open space, other than a court, unoccupied by a structure,
however, fences, walls, posts, trees, lawn furniture, and other customary yard
accessories are permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and
requirements limiting obstructions of visibility.
YARD, FRONT - an unoccupied space, open to the sky, provided between the front
property line (road right-of-way line) and a line drawn parallel thereto at
such distance therefrom as may be specified herein for any district, and
extending for the full width of the lot.
YARD, REAR - an unoccupied space, open to the sky, between the rear property
line and a line drawn parallel thereto at such distance therefrom as may be
specified herein for any district, and extending for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE - an unoccupied space, open to the sky, between the side property
line and a line drawn parallel thereto at such distance therefrom as may be
specified herein for any district, and extending the full depth of the lot.
ZONING OFFICER (ZONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL) - the agent(s) or official(s)
designated by the Township Supervisors to enforce the Official Zoning Ordinance
of the Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-78, 10/7/1978; by Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/
1998, § 1; by Ord. 10-10-01, §§ 1-2; by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 1; by Ord.
9804, 9/8/2004, § 1; by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 1; by Ord. 10-14-15, 10/14/
2015, § 1; by Ord. 2-14-18-1, 2/14/2018, § 1; by Ord. 1-9-19, 1/9/2019, § 1; by
Ord. 5-12-21-1, 5/12/2021, § 1; by Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/2022, § 1; by Ord. 9-14-
22, 9/14/2022, § 1; and by Ord. 9-13-23, 9/13/2023, § 1)
Part 2
Establishment of Districts; Provision for Official Zoning Map
§ 201. Official Zoning Map.
   1.   The Township is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on
the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Chapter.
   2.   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chairman of the Board of Supervisors attested by the Secretary and bearing the
seal of the Township under the following words: "This is to certify that this
is the Official Zoning Map referred to in §
201 of Ordinance Number of the Township of South Annville, Lebanon County,
Pennsylvania, together with the date of the adoption of this Ordinance."
   3.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, and Article VI,
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, changes are made in district
boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes
shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has
been approved by the Township Supervisors with an entry on the Official Zoning
Map as follows: "On (date), by official action of the Township Supervisors, the
following (change) (changes) were made in the Official Zoning Map; (brief
description of nature of change)." Said entry shall be signed by the Chairman
of the Board of Supervisors attested by the Township Secretary. No amendment to
this Chapter, which involves matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, shall
become effective until after such change and entry has been made on said map.
   4.   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
Chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be considered a violation of this Chapter and punishable as provided
under Part 20.
   5.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map, which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
which shall be located in the office of the Township Supervisors shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas,
buildings, and other structures in the Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 2.01)
§ 202. Replacement of the Official Zoning Map.
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Township Supervisors may by resolution adopt a new Official
Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new
Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Chairman of the
Board of Supervisors attested by the Township Secretary and bearing the seal of
the Township under the following words: "This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map, was adopted as part of Ordinance No. ____ of the Township of South
Annville, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania.
Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof, remaining shall be
preserved together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 2.02)
§ 203. Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines;
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following Township limits shall
be construed as following such Township limits;
   4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   5.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of, features
indicated in Subsection 1 through 4 above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map;
   6.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by Subsections 1 through 6 above, the Zoning Hearing Board shall
interpret the District boundaries.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 3)
§ 204. Use Districts.
For the purpose of regulating and restricting the location of trades,
industries, multiple family houses, single family houses, and other uses of
property, the number of square feet of lot area per family house, the width of
lots, the location and size of yards, and the size and height of buildings, the
Township is divided into seven (7) classes of use districts termed
respectively.
Class A   or Agricultural District
Class RR  or Rural Residential District
Class R-1 or Low Density Residential District
Class R-2 or Medium Density Residential District
Class C-1 or General Commercial District
Class C-2 or Highway Commercial District
Class I-1 or Industrial District
Class F   or Floodplain District (overlay district) [Ord. 5-9- 2012]
 
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 5.01; as amended by Ord. 5-9-2012, 5/9/2012, § 2)
Part 3
Application of District Regulations
§ 301. Uniformity of Application.
The regulations set by this Chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
§ 302. Compliance Required for Subsequent Changes in Use.
No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.01)
§ 303. Buildings and Structures.
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
   1.   To exceed the height or bulk;
   2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
   3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
   4.    To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.02)
§ 304. Required Yards and Spaces Not to be Shared.
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space
required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this Chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-
street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.03)
§ 305. Lots and Yards Must Meet Minimum Requirements.
No yard or lot existing at the time passage of this Chapter shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or
lots created after the effective date of this Chapter shall meet at least the
minimum requirements established by this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.04)
§ 306. Proposed Uses Not Covered.
When a specific use is neither permitted nor prohibited in the schedule of
district regulations, the Zoning Hearing Board shall make a determination as to
the similarity or compatibility of the use in question to the permitted uses in
the district basing the decision on the overall intent stipulated for the
district.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.05)
§ 307. Future Annexations of Territory.
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the Township shall be
considered to be in the agricultural (A) District until otherwise classified.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 4.06)
Part 4
A - Agricultural Districts
§ 401. Intent.
The regulations of the Agricultural Districts are designed to protect and
preserve the existing agricultural lands of the Township and those areas where
environmental conditions are most conducive to agricultural operations which
will produce high crop yields. Principal protection and preservation emphasis
is concentrated on prime farm land and conversion to nonfarm usage is
discouraged. Where designated for nonprime farm land, limited residential,
nonresidential and farm-related commercial uses are permitted to facilitate
those individuals who may desire to locate in an agricultural setting.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 6.01; as amended by Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/1998, § 401)
§ 402. Permitted Uses.
   1.   Single-family dwellings.
   2.    Soil cultivation and crop production, truck farming, nurseries,
noncommercial greenhouses, general farms, dairying, breeding of horses, etc.,
including the nonintensive raising, keeping and breeding of poultry, livestock,
etc.
   3.    Intensive raising, breeding and/or keeping of poultry and livestock,
including feedlots, poultry houses, etc., for gainful purposes provided that
the following conditions are met:
      A.    Feedlots, poultry houses and other buildings, structures, corrals
or pens in which poultry or livestock are kept for the above use shall be no
closer than one hundred (100) feet to any adjoining lot line or road right-of-
way or two hundred (200) feet to any residentially zoned property.
      B.   No storage of manure or odor or dust producing substances or
materials shall be permitted within one hundred (100) feet of any adjoining lot
line or road right-of-way or within two hundred (200) feet of any residentially
zoned property.
      C.   Minimum lot area of ten (10) acres.
      D.    Riding academies, boarding stables and kennels provided that no
kennel runway or animal exercise pen or corral shall be located within one
hundred (100) feet of any lot line or right-of-way line, exclusive of clearly
identified bridle paths.
   4.    Public conservation area and structures for the conservation of open
space, water, soil, forest and wildlife resources.
   5.   Public uses identified below and subject to the limitations set forth:
      A.   Governmentally owned park and recreation areas.
      B.   Forest reserves, game refuges, and similar non-intensive uses.
      C.   Schools providing kindergarten through grade 12 education meeting
applicable requirements of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania limited in size and
intensity to recognize the intent of the Agricultural District. To implement
this limitation, a school shall either be limited to a maximum of thirty-five
(35) students and twelve (12) staff persons or be limited to a maximum lot area
of two (2) acres.
   6.   Municipal buildings and structures.
   7.   Churches and cemeteries.
   8.   Animal hospitals.
   9.   Necessary public utility structures and buildings; and communications
antennas on existing structures when meeting the requirements of § 1429.2.
   10.   Customary accessory uses and buildings which are clearly incidental to
any of the above permitted uses, including the following:
      A.   Road side stands for the sale of "home-grown" or "home-made"
products provided that the following conditions are met:
         (1)    At least one-half (½) of all products sold must be produced on
the premises.
         (2)    The structure used to display and sell such products shall be
located at least forty (40) feet from any road right-of-way line and any
property line.
         (3)   The structure shall not occupy more than two thousand (2,000)
square feet of area.
         (4)    All parking for the use shall be off-street. A minimum of three
(3) off-street parking spaces shall be provided. Additional off-street parking
may be required to adequately handle the parking needs.
      B.   Home occupations as provided for in §
1412 of this Chapter.
      C.   Accessory uses as provided for in Part 14 of this Chapter.
      D.   Accessory dwelling units as provided for in Part 14 of this Chapter.
   11.   Short term rental subject to the requirements of §
1430 . [Ord. 5-12-21-1]
   12.   The following special exception uses, upon approval by the Zoning
Hearing Board, as provided for in Part 19 of this Chapter.
      A.   Agriculturally oriented commercial establishments as follows:
         (1)   Commercial establishments shall bear relationship to the
agricultural district and uses permitted therein (i.e., farm implement dealer,
feed mill, etc.).
         (2)    On-premises butchering operations, as an accessory use,
provided that the following conditions are met:
            (a)    Butchering operations shall be conducted only by an
immediate member of the family, owning and residing on the property.
            (b)    Butchering operations shall be limited to the employ of not
more than one (1) assistant.
            (c)    Any building(s) or structure(s) which involves this use or
in which this use is conducted shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet
from any adjoining property line.
            (d)   Any remains, entrails, carcass, etc., resulting from this use
shall not be stored on the property.
            (e)   No objectional noise, fumes, odor, dust or electrical
interference shall be created through this use.
      B.   Quarrying, including sandpits, gravel pits, removal of topsoil and
landfill and the excavation, extraction or removal of any natural resource from
the land or ground for any purpose are permitted subject to the following
conditions:
         (1)    Removal of forests or timber is prohibited without prior
approval of the Zoning Hearing Board.
         (2)    The proposed operation shall not adversely affect soil
fertility, drainage and lateral support of abutting land or other properties,
nor shall it contribute to soil erosion by water or wind.
         (3)    Where any open excavation will have a depth of ten (10) feet or
more and a slope of more than thirty (30) degrees there shall be a substantial
fence, approved by the Zoning Hearing Board, with suitable gates where
necessary, effectively blocking access to the area in which such extraction is
located. Such fence shall be located no less than fifty (50) feet from the edge
of the excavation. All operations shall be screened from nearby residential
uses as required by the Zoning Hearing Board.
         (4)    That portion of access roads located within one hundred (100)
feet of any lot in residential use or lot zoned for residential use shall be
provided with a dustless surface. Access roads shall connect to collector or
major networks avoiding undue movement through a residential area.
         (5)   At all stage of operations, proper drainage shall be provided to
prevent the collection and stagnation of water and to prevent harmful effects
upon surrounding properties.
         (6)    A site plan for rehabilitation, showing both existing and
proposed final contours, shall be submitted and approved by the Zoning Hearing
Board. After any such operations, the site shall be made reusable for a use
permitted in the zoning district. Where topsoil is removed, sufficient arable
soil shall be set aside for retention of the premises and shall be respread
over the premises after the operation is retained, the area shall be brought to
final grade by a layer of earth capable of supporting vegetation of at least
two (2) feet or to original thickness, whichever is less. Fill shall be
suitable material approved by the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/1998, § 402; by Ord. 2-14-18-
1, 2/14/2018, § 2; by Ord. 10-10-18-1, 10/10/2018; by Ord. 1-9-19, 1/9/2019;
and by Ord. 5-12-21-1, 5/12/2021, § 2)
§ 403. General District Requirements.
All principal buildings, structures and uses erected or established after the
adoption date of this Part shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Existing farms shall be permitted the following number of new lots or
principal uses, based upon farm size at the date of adoption of this Part.
Size of Farm Maximum Number of Lots or Uses
Size of Farm                   Maximum Number of Lots or Uses
0 acres to less than 10 acres  Any number in accordance with §§ 403(C)(4) and
                               404.
10 acres to less than 50 acres 2
50 acres to less than 100      3
acres
100 acres to less than 175     4
acres
175 acres to less than 250     5
acres
250 acres to less than 400     6
acres
400 acres or more              7
 
Existing unsubdivided dwellings and principal, nonresidential uses located on
the farm shall not be considered part of the permitted allotment. The maximum
permitted number of new lots or uses shall apply whether or not individual lots
are subdivided at the time the uses are established. Resubdivision of lots
created after the adoption date of this Part shall be subject to the maximum
allotment determined for the original farm or property.
   B.   All applications for building and zoning permits to erect a single-
family dwelling or principal, nonresidential use structure on unsubdivided land
and all applications for subdivision shall be accompanied by an agricultural
plan identifying the following:
      (1)    Size, shape and dimensions of the farm, size and location of all
existing buildings and size, location and use of all proposed buildings or
lots.
      (2)   Lots or uses previously approved under these regulations.
      (3)   Land under active cultivation and land in woodlots or forests.
      (4)    Soil information for the farm, including soil series and soil
capability class, subclass and unit as classified within the 1981, Soil Survey
of Lebanon County, Pennsylvania, and Agricultural Handbook No. 210 of the
United States Department of Agricultural Soil Conservation Service.
      (5)    Notation as to which lot or lots carry with it a right of further
subdivision or erection of accessory farm or nonfarm single-family dwellings or
principal nonagricultural buildings, if any such right remains from the quota
allocated to the farm. This right of further subdivision or erection of
accessory farm or nonfarm single-family dwellings or principal nonagricultural
buildings or an indication that no further subdivision or erection of such
dwellings or principal buildings is permissible, shall also be included in the
deed to the newly-created lot. This restriction shall remain in effect as long
as further subdivision is prohibited under the zoning ordinance then in effect.
   C.   Applications to erect or establish a use or subdivide a farm or
property shall be reviewed subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   The least suitable farmland (highest numbered soil capability unit)
should be utilized for development, unless the applicant can demonstrate: (a)
its suitability for the proposed use or (b) design advantages that support the
use of other frontage land (view, location, alignment with farming patterns,
proximity to other dwellings, etc.). When a soil has been determined to be
unsuitable because of slope, drainage, flooding, sewage disposal deficiencies
or other physical characteristics, then the least suitable remaining farmland
should be utilized for development.
      (2)   When a farm is comprised entirely of prime farmland (soil
capability classes I and II) then the least suitable or least prime land should
be utilized for development.
      (3)   Lots and uses shall be grouped, where possible, adjacent to other
similar lots and uses to avoid a scattering of development. Lots and uses shall
not be located near intensive farming operations. Subdivision or development
shall not necessitate any new streets, except that one (1) lot or use may be
assessed via an unimproved fifty (50) foot right-of-way.
      (4)   A maximum lot area of two (2) acres for single-family dwellings is
established in the district requirement chart in § 404. The maximum lot area
applies to subdivisions for new dwellings and subdivision of preexisting
dwellings, even though the preexisting dwellings do not count in the lot
allotment for the farm. The purpose of the maximum lot size is to prevent the
creation of large lots which remove excessive amounts of agricultural land from
crop production. The two (2) acre maximum lot size shall not apply to (a) lot
additions for agricultural purposes and (b) subdivision of existing parcels of
ten (10) acres or less in size. The Zoning Hearing Board may grant a special
exception to allow the creation of a lot in excess of the two (2) acre maximum
lot size if the applicant demonstrates that physical characteristics of the
property (excessive slope, drainage problems, soil limitations, flooding,
sewage disposal deficiencies, ground water recharge area, property shape, etc.)
dictate that lot design exceeding the two (2) acre standard is desirable; or
that the lot size will result in consolidation of residual land after other
suitable lots have been removed; or that the lot will contain areas which are
unsuitable for farming; or that the existing configuration of the tract will
result in lot design and layout which would otherwise unavoidably physically
isolate the excess land from the remainder of the farm; or that the landowner
demonstrates that the lot size must be increased to insure an acceptable level
of nitrate-nitrogen in the groundwater in accordance with the regulations of
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and any approved
planning module for land development. [Ord. 2/12/2003]
      (5)    Application for the last lot or use permitted within a farm or
property shall be accompanied by a proposed deed for the residual farm land or
property. Said proposed deed shall contain a restriction to identify that
subdivision and development allotments have been used and that no further
subdivision, development or establishment of additional principal uses shall be
permitted. Said restrictive deed shall be recorded within thirty (30) days of
subdivision or permit approval for the last allowable lot or use. Failure to
record said deed, subsequent removal of the deed restriction or subsequent
subdivision or establishment of additional uses or lots shall constitute a
violation of this Part, punishable in accordance with Part 20 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/1998, § 403; as amended by Ord. 2/12/2003)
§ 404. Lots and Yards Requirements.
A lot area, lot width, lot coverage, yard depths and building height satisfying
the requirements of the following table, unless otherwise specified heretofore
in §§ 402 and 403, shall be provided for every dwelling unit and/or principal
nonresidential building or use hereafter erected, altered or established in
this district.
 
District Requirements                                                    Lot Requirements          Yard Requirements
                                                                         Min. Max.  Min.  Max. Lot       One  Total
Use                                                                      Lot  Lot   Lot   Coverage Front Side Sides Rear
                                                                         Area Area  Width
Nonresidential
Use or Building Specified in §§ 402(3) and 402(11)                     1    1 --  150   15%      50    20   40    50
                                                                         acre       feet           feet  feet feet  feet
                                                                         1    4     150            50    20   40    50
Use or Building Specified by Special Exception § 402 (13) (A) and in § acre acres feet  15%      feet  feet feet  feet
402 (13) (B)                                                             1    1 --  150   15%      100   100  100   100
                                                                         acre       feet           feet  feet feet  feet
Residential
Single-family detached                                                   1    2     125   20%      50    20   40    50
                                                                         acre acres feet           feet  feet feet  feet
 
1 Maximum lot area shall not apply to lot additions for agricultural purposes
and permitted uses specified within §§
402(3) through
402(11) and §
402(13)(B) of this Part.
No building, with the exception of farm structures, shall exceed two and one-
half (2½) stories and thirty-five (35) feet in height unless authorized as a
special exception.
(Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/1998, § 404)
§ 405. Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 1-14-98, 1/14/1998, § 405)
Part 5
RR - Rural Residential Districts
§ 501. Intent.
The regulations of this district are designed to provide for and protect the
growing number of single family residences in a predominately wooded, forest
area and to protect the inherent rural nature of the area.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 7.01)
§ 502. Permitted Uses.
   1.   Single family dwellings, not including single unit mobile homes.
   2.   Soil cultivation and crop production, truck farming, nurseries, non-
commercial greenhouses, general farms, dairying, breeding of horses, etc.,
including the non-intensive raising, keeping and breeding of poultry,
livestock, etc.
   3.   Riding academies, boarding stables, and kennels provided that no kennel
runway or animal exercise pen or corral shall be located within one hundred
feet (100') of any lot line or right-of-way line, exclusive of clearly
identified bridle paths.
   4.   Public conservation areas and structures for the conservation of open
space, water, soil, forest, and wildlife resources.
   5.   Public uses such as park and recreation areas, forest reserves, game
refuges and similar non-intensive public uses.
   6.   Necessary public utility structures and buildings; communications
towers subject to the requirements of § 1429.1; and communications antennas on
existing structures subject to the requirements of § 1429.2.
   7.   Customary accessory uses and buildings which are clearly incidental to
any of the above permitted uses, including the following:
      A.   Home occupations as provided for in § 1416 of this Chapter.
      B.   No-impact home-based business as defined in this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
      C.   Accessory uses as provided for in Part 14 of this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
   8.   The following special exception uses, upon approval by the Zoning
Hearing Board as provided for in § 1902 of this Chapter and further provided
that the proposed use is not found to have an adverse effect on the welfare of
the area due to noise, odor, dust, glare, lighting, traffic circulation or
design.
      A.   Special exceptions as specified in Part 4, A - Agricultural
Districts, of this Chapter.
      B.   Retreat, subject to the following regulations:
         (1)    The retreat shall be conducted on a single lot and shall be
operated by a single entity.
         (2)    The applicant shall provide a water and sewer feasibility study
with its application to the Zoning Hearing Board. The water and sewer
feasibility study shall specify the maximum occupancy of the retreat, the
estimated water consumption, the source of water, estimated sewage flows,
method of sewage disposal, and other relevant information. The water and sewer
feasibility study shall specify whether the retreat will be seasonal or whether
the retreat will operate on a year-round basis. The water and sewer feasibility
study shall demonstrate that an adequate water supply exists (quantity and
quality) to serve the intended uses and shall demonstrate that the use will not
have an adverse impact on adjoining existing uses and future groundwater
withdrawal.
         (3)    The applicant shall submit a traffic impact study with its
application to the Zoning Hearing Board which shall be prepared in accordance
with the requirements of § 1419.3 of this Chapter.
         (4)    The applicant shall submit a plan with its application to the
Zoning Hearing Board which shall provide all information required at § 1904.2
of this Chapter. The requirements of § 1904.2 shall be applicable to a plan for
a retreat. Such plan shall also clearly identify the lot lines for the retreat
and clearly distinguish which features are existing and which are proposed. The
plan shall clearly identify the maximum occupancy of each existing and proposed
structure. The plan shall identify the number of off-street parking spaces
required under Part 15 and off-street parking spaces proposed.
         (5)    The applicant shall submit evidence with its application to the
Zoning Hearing Board that applicant has requested the comments of all first due
emergency response providers at least thirty (30) days prior to submitting the
application. If applicant has received any comments from any first due
emergency response providers, applicant shall include such comments with its
application.
         (6)    The applicant shall submit an emergency plan of access with its
application to the Zoning Hearing Board meeting the requirements of § 1420.21
of this Chapter.
         (7)    The applicant shall submit a written plan for the long term
operation and management of the retreat with its application to the Zoning
Hearing Board. Such plan shall at a minimum identify the entity which will own
the retreat, the entity which will operate the retreat, staffing and management
of the retreat, sanitary sewage disposal system operation and maintenance;
water supply system operation and maintenance; street and access drive
maintenance and similar matters.
         (8)    The applicant shall provide at least one (1) full-time manager
that is responsible for the operation of the facility. The manager or other
responsible staff shall be on site or available by telephone and able to be on
site within sixty (60) minutes at all times (twenty-four (24) hours) the use is
in operation. The applicant shall provide contact information to all first due
emergency response providers.
         (9)    The applicant shall demonstrate that all operations at the
retreat shall have the sole purpose of providing professional, educational, or
religious meetings limited to registered participants and/or opportunities for
individuals to engage in solitude and meditation. A religious retreat may offer
religiously related counseling services to active or retired members of the
clergy, other church officials, missionaries, and the families of such
individuals, including transitional housing for missionaries or members of the
clergy. If a religious retreat offers temporary or transitional housing for
missionaries or members of the clergy, the occupants of such temporary or
transitional housing may occupy the dwelling units in accordance with the same
standards as persons occupying other residential dwellings in the Rural
Residential District.
         (10)   The maximum length of occupancy in any temporary housing
facilities for any person or family shall not exceed 365 total days.
         (11)   The maximum length of occupancy in any retreat cabins for any
person or family shall not exceed thirty (30) total days per calendar year.
         (12)   Outdoor camping shall be allowed on a limited basis with the
length of camping stays to not exceed seven (7) days and the maximum number of
campers at any time shall not exceed fifty (50). Camping shall only be at areas
designated on the approved land development plan. All camping areas shall be at
least two hundred (200) feet from any property line.
         (13)   The retreat shall not provide any in-patient, out-patient,
parent-mandated, or court-mandated, substance abuse or behavioral treatment
services.
         (14)   The retreat shall not contain or serve as a halfway house,
wilderness camp or other educational alternative for youths, a rehabilitation
center, "extreme" sports center, or health care facility.
         (15)   The retreat shall not provide housing or counseling adults or
juveniles who are sentenced to correctional facilities, on probation, or
subject to any other court-restricted activity is prohibited.
         (16)   Use or storage on the site of mobile homes, recreational
vehicles, or any other similar kind of vehicle is prohibited. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the retreat may maintain all terrain vehicles and/or snowmobiles
for use by staff only.
         (17)   The retreat shall not be used to house an institution of higher
education, day care facility, or school as each of those terms is defined by
the Pennsylvania Department of Education under Title 24 of the Pennsylvania
Statutes or Title 22 of the Pennsylvania Code, nor shall the retreat be used
for ancillary activities commonly associated with such institutions. This
paragraph shall not prevent participants at the retreat from receiving
continuing education credits if such credits can be provided or earned in a
manner which does not conflict with this subparagraph.
         (18)   The retreat shall not be developed with a church or house of
worship open to the community at large or used for ancillary outdoor activities
commonly associated with a church, with the exception of quiet prayer and
meditation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the construction and operation of a
chapel for the exclusive use of retreat residents, visitors and staff is
permitted, for religious purposes only. The chapel shall be designed and
constructed such that its occupancy shall not be greater than the capacity of
the retreat as determined in this Section.
         (19)   The retreat shall not conduct and shall not allow the use of
the retreat facilities for the conduct of any activities or events that are
open to the public including, but not limited to, lectures, seminars,
workshops, meetings, conferences, and entertainment or sporting events. Any
place of assembly shall be designed and constructed such that its occupancy
shall not be greater than the capacity of the retreat as determined in this
Section.
         (20)   Outdoor events and activities shall be limited to such size and
nature as to accommodate retreat participants only. Amplified music,
entertainment, or announcements, outdoor movies or films, fireworks displays,
and light shows audible or visible off of the retreat property are prohibited.
         (21)   Commercial or industrial uses and retail sales are prohibited.
Provided, however, that provision of meals, vending machines, and incidental
sales of a minor nature may be permitted. In no event shall retail sales of any
goods or products be permitted to be made to the general public. All sales
shall be limited to staff and participants of the retreat.
         (22)   In light of the importance of solitude for the proper
functioning of the retreat use of the lot, the maximum number of persons at the
site shall not exceed two (2) persons per acre at any given time, including
staff, residents and visitors.
         (23)   A retreat shall meet the following minimum requirements:
            (a)   Minimum lot area: 20 acres.
            (b)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet.
            (c)   Maximum lot coverage: 10%.
            (d)   Minimum setback from all property lines for all structures
other than single family detached dwellings: 200 feet.
            (e)    Minimum setback from all property lines for single family
detached dwellings: 100 feet.
            (f)   Minimum building separation: Completely detached buildings or
structures shall not be less than 20 feet from one another.
            (g)   Maximum building height: two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
         (24)   A retreat shall be provided with a buffer zone of not less than
50 feet in width along all property lines. The buffer zone shall not be used
for any purpose whatsoever; provided, however, required access drives may cross
the buffer zone.
         (25)   The applicant shall demonstrate that any lighting to be
installed within the retreat shall meet all requirements of §
1420.16 of this Chapter.
         (26)   The applicant shall comply with all applicable stormwater
management, sedimentation and erosion control, and subdivision and land
development regulations.
[Ord. 9804]
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 7.02; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 2; by Ord. 9804,
9/8/2004, § 2; and by Ord. 2-14-18-1, 2/14/2018, § 3)
§ 503. Lot Area, Building Height, and Yard Requirements.
   A.   A lot width, lot area, and yard setback requirements of not less than
the dimensions shown in the following table shall be provided for every
dwelling unit erected or altered for any use permitted in this district. [Ord.
1/17/96]
TABLE OF RR - DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
 
              Lot Requirements                  Yard Requirements
              Min. Lot Area Min. Lot Max. Lot   Front One Side Total Sides Rear
              (Sq.ft.)      Width    Coverage %
All Permitted 2 acres       200'     10%        40'   20'      40'         50'
Uses
All Permitted
Uses if
general       3 acres       250'     10%        50'   30'      60'         50'
landscape has
slope in
excess of 20%
 
   B.   A lot width, lot area, and yard setback requirements of not less than
the dimensions shown in the following table shall be provided for every non-
residential building erected or altered for any use permitted in this district.
[Ord. 1/17/96]
TABLE OF RR - DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
 
              Lot Requirements                  Yard Requirements
              Min. Lot Area Min. Lot Max. Lot   Front One Side Total Sides Rear
              (Sq.ft.)      Width    Coverage %
All Permitted 2 acres       200'     20%        40'   20'      40'         50'
Uses
All Permitted
Uses if
general       3 acres       250'     20%        50'   30'      60'         50'
landscape has
slope in
excess of 20%
 
[Ord. 1/17/96]
No building, with the exception of farm structures, shall exceed two and one-
half (2½) stories or thirty-five feet (35') in height unless authorized as a
special exception.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 7.03; as amended by Ord. 1/17/96)
§ 504. Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
Off-street parking shall be provided for in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 7.04)
§ 505. Ecological Safeguards.
Applications for development of plots with the general landscape having slopes
in excess of twenty percent (20%) shall be accompanied by a soil erosion
control plan approved and/or prepared by the Soil Conservation Service.
Additionally, such properties shall be limited to the removal of no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the vegetative cover.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 7.05)
Part 6
R-1 Low Density Residential Districts
§ 601. Intent.
The regulations for these districts are designed to accommodate and encourage
harmonious and compatible residential development consistent with the
characteristics of the prevailing open environment of the Township. For this
purpose, development is restricted to conventional, low density, single family
detached dwellings and related land uses.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 8.01)
§ 602. Permitted Uses.
   1.   One single-family detached dwelling on any lot existing as of the
effective date of this subsection and any subdivision or land development of
land which initially or cumulatively creates five (5) or fewer residential lots
or dwelling units from any lot existing as of the effective date of this
subsection. [Ord. 61406]
   2.   Churches and similar places of worship.
   3.   Public and private nurseries, elementary, middle and high schools,
institutions of higher education, municipal buildings and structures, public
parks and playgrounds, provided that the following conditions are met:
      A.   A minimum front yard of one hundred feet (100') shall be maintained
from the road right-of-way line. No parking facilities shall be permitted in
the required front yard.
   4.   Necessary public utility structures and buildings.
   5.   Soil cultivation and crop production, truck farming, gardening, flower
and tree nurseries, non-commercial greenhouses, but not including any raising,
keeping, and breeding of poultry, bees, and livestock. In no case shall manure,
fertilizer or other odor or dust producing substances be stored anywhere within
two hundred feet (200') of any adjoining lot line.
   6.   Nonintensive raising, breeding, or keeping of poultry, bees or
livestock (which shall not be construed to include feedlots, poultry houses,
etc.) provided that the following conditions are met:
      A.   The minimum lot size shall be ten (10) acres.
      B.   No building in which livestock, poultry, or bees, other than
customary household pets are kept shall be closer than two hundred feet (200')
to any adjoining lot line or road right-of-way.
      C.   No storage of manure or odor or dust producing substances shall be
permitted within two hundred feet (200') of any adjoining lot line or road
right-of-way.
   7.   Customary accessory uses and buildings which are clearly incidental to
any of the above permitted uses, including:
      A.   Home occupations as defined in §
1416 of this Chapter.
      B.   No-impact home-based business as defined in this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
      C.   Accessory uses as provided for in Part 14 of this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
   8.   Hospitals, clinics, convalescent homes, animal hospitals and
sanitariums provided that the following conditions are met:
      A.   A minimum front yard of one hundred feet (100') shall be maintained
from the road right-of-way line. No parking facilities shall be permitted in
the required front yard.
   9.   The following Special Exception uses, upon approval by the Zoning
Hearing Board, as provided for in Part 19 of this Chapter.
      A.   Public, semi-public or private recreation uses such as golf courses,
country clubs, swimming and tennis clubs provided that no principal building or
structures or parking area will be located within one hundred feet (100') of
any road right-of-way line or lot line and provided that the proposed use is
not found to have an adverse effect on the welfare of the area due to noise,
odor, glare, lighting, traffic circulation or design.
   10.   The following conditional uses when authorized by the Board of
Supervisors as provided in Part 12 of this Chapter:
      A.   Neighborhood Greenway Development (See §
1425).
      B.   Any land development or subdivision of land proposing more than five
(5) dwelling units or lots initially or cumulatively other than Neighborhood
Greenway Development (See §
1426).
[Ord. 61406]
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 8.02; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 3; and by Ord.
61406, 6/14/2006, § 2)
§ 603. Lot Area, Building height and Yard Requirements.
A lot width, lot area and yard setback requirements of not less than the
dimensions shown in the following table shall be provided for every dwelling
unit and/or principal non-residential building hereafter erected or altered for
any use permitted in this district.
TABLE OF R-1 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
 
               Lot Requirements             Yard Requirements
Public         Min. Lot Min. Lot Max. Lot
Utilities      Area     Width    Coverage % Front One Side Total Sides Rear
               (Sq.ft.)
Nonresidential 3 acres  250'     10%        50'   20'      40'         50'
Building
Single-Family
Dwelling
None           1 acre   150'     25%        40'   15'      30'         30'
Public Water   30,000   125'     25%        30'   12'      30'         25'
or Sewer
Public Water & 20,000   100'     30%        30'   10'      20'         25'
Sewer
 
No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five feet
(35') in height unless authorized as a special exception.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 8.03)
§ 604. Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
Off-street parking shall be provided for in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 8.04)
§ 605. Greenway Requirement.
Any use proposed for lands which are located in the area(s) of the Township
identified as part of the open space and greenways plan shall provide
designated open space as part of its subdivision and/or land development plan
in accordance with the open space and greenways plan and this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 3)
Part 7
R-2 Medium Density Residential Districts
§ 701. Intent.
The regulations of the Medium Density Residential Districts are designed to
provide for a wider range of medium density housing types where municipal
services and commercial facilities are most readily available.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 9.01)
§ 702. Permitted Uses.
   1.   One single-family detached dwelling on any lot existing as of the
effective date of this subsection and any subdivision or land development of
land which initially or cumulatively creates five (5) or fewer residential lots
or dwelling units from any lot existing as of the effective date of this
subsection. [Ord. 61406]
   2.   Two-family residential structures (duplexes).
   3.   Multiple family and conversion apartment dwellings.
   4.   Customary accessory uses and buildings which are clearly incidental to
any of the above permitted uses, including:
      A.   Home occupations as defined in §
1416 of this Chapter.
      B.   No-impact home-based business as defined in this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
      C.   Accessory uses as provided for in Part 14 of this Chapter. [Ord.
91102]
   5.   Short term rental subject to the requirements of §
1430 . [Ord. 5-12-21-1]
   6.   The following uses are permitted by Special Exception, upon approval by
the Zoning Hearing Board, provided that the proposed use is not found to have
an adverse effect on the welfare of the area due to noise, odor, dust, glare,
lighting, traffic circulation, or design.
      A.   Special Exceptions as specified in the R-1 Residential Districts.
   7.   The following conditional uses when authorized by the Board of
Supervisors as provided in Part 12 of this Chapter:
      A.   Neighborhood Greenway Development (See §
1425).
      B.   Any land development or subdivision of land proposing more than five
(5) dwelling units or lots initially or cumulatively other than Neighborhood
Greenway Development (See §
1426).
[Ord. 61406]
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 9.02; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 4; by Ord.
61406, 6/14/2006, § 4; and by Ord. 5-12-21-1, 5/12/2021, § 3)
§ 703. Lot Area, Building Height, and Yard Requirements.
A lot width, lot area, and yard depths of not less than the dimensions shown in
the following table shall be provided for every dwelling unit and/or principal
non-residential building hereafter erected or altered for any use permitted in
this district.
TABLE OF R-2 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
              Lot Requirements                  Yard Requirements
Use Utilities Min. Lot Area Min. Lot Max. Lot   Front One Side Total Sides Rear
              (Sq.ft.)      Width    Coverage %
               Lot Requirements                 Yard Requirements
               Min. Lot     Min. Lot Max. Lot
Use Utilities  Area         Width    Coverage % Front One Side Total Sides Rear
               (Sq.ft.)
Nonresidential 3 acres      250'     10%        50'   20'      40'         50'
Building
Single Family                                                         
Dwelling
No Public      1 acre       125'     20%        40'   12'      30'         30'
Utilities
Public Water   20,000       100'     30%        30'   10'      20'         25'
or Sewer
Public Water & 10,000       80'      30%        30'   8'       20'         25'
Sewer
Semi-Detached                                                         
Public Water & 8,000        60'      30%        30'   10'                 25'
Sewer
               6 units per
*Townhouse     gross area   18'      40%        30'                      25'
               (max.)
Apartments and
Multi-Family   5,000 sq.ft.         40%        30'   20'      40'         30'
Dwelling       per unit
Buildings
 
*No group of townhouses shall consist of more than six (6) units, with no more
than three (3) continuous townhouses with the same front setback, each
variation of the setback being at least four feet (4').
No building other than apartment/multi-family dwelling building shall exceed
two and one-half (2 ½) stories or thirty-five feet (35') in height unless
authorized as a special exception. Apartment/multi-family dwelling buildings
shall not exceed three (3) stories or forty-five (45) feet in height, whichever
is greater.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 9.03; as amended by Ord. 9-13-23, 9/13/2023)
§ 704. Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 9.04)
§ 705. Greenway Requirement.
Any use proposed for lands which are located in the area(s) of the Township
identified as part of the open space and greenways plan shall provide
designated open space as part of its subdivision and/or land development plan
in accordance with the open space and greenways plan and this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 5)
Part 8
C-1 - General Commercial District
§ 801. Intent.
Within any largely agricultural and residential community there exists a need
for certain commercial facilities to fulfill needs of persons living therein.
These needs are designed to be met by providing for a commercial district
easily accessible to the Township residents.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 10.01)
§ 802. Permitted Uses.
      1.   Stores for the retailing of food, clothing, drugs, confectionary,
hardware, farm equipment and supplies, sporting goods, household appliances,
flowers, etc.
      2.   Personal service shops including barbers, beauty parlors, tailors,
shoe repair, dry cleaning, laundromats, etc.
      3.   Banks, savings and loan, and finance agencies.
      4.   Restaurants, tea rooms, cafes, and other places serving food and
drink, but not including drive-in restaurants.
      5.   Business and professional offices.
      6.   Automobile dealers, repair shops, auto fillings and service
stations, body shops, parts centers, supply centers, and washes.
      7.   Printing and publishing establishments.
      8.   Mortuary and undertaking establishments.
      9.   Shops for contractors, plumbing, heating, printing, upholstering,
etc.
      10.   Large scale solar energy system as a principal use or as an
accessory use subject to the requirements of §
1431 .
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 10.02; as amended by Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/2022, § 2)
§ 803. Performance Required.
All of the above listed uses must be non-objectionable in terms of smoke or
dust emission, odors, noise, or glare, and shall not be injurious or have an
adverse effect on adjacent areas.
   Should the Zoning Officer feel there is any possibility of the
abovementioned dangers, the applicant must prove the contrary to the Zoning
Hearing Board before a permit is issued.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 10.03)
§ 804. Lot Area, Building Height and Yard Requirements.
A lot width, lot area, and lot depth of not less than the dimensions shown in
the following table shall be provided for every principal building hereafter
erected or altered for any use permitted in this district.
TABLE OF C-1 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
 
Area Requirements                         Yard Requirements
Min. Lot Size Min. Lot Width Max Coverage Front One Side Total Sides Rear
1 acre        200'           70%          50'   20'      40'         40'
 
[Ord. 9-13-06-01]
   A.   Parking areas may be included in fifty percent (50%) of the required
yards of the C-1 Commercial Districts except where they adjoin a residential
district. All yards or portions of yards not used for parking shall be
appropriately landscaped and maintained.
   B.   Where side or rear yards adjoin any R-1, R-2, or RR Residen tial
Districts, they shall be no less than fifty feet (50') in width, shall not be
used for parking and shall be appropriately landscaped and maintained.
   C.   No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-
five feet (35') in height unless authorized as a Special Exception by the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 10.04; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-01, 9/13/2006, § 1)
§ 805. Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter.
   2.   Each business use established or expanded after the date of adoption of
this Chapter shall provide off-street loading and unloading space at the side
or rear of the building for each four thousand (4,000) square feet of floor
area in each building. Such space or spaces shall be not less than six hundred
sixty (660) square feet in area with a dimension of twelve feet (12') by fifty-
five feet (55') per space with a clearance of not less than fifteen feet (15')
in height. Required spaces shall be located exclusive of any public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 10.05)
Part 9
C-2 - Highway Commercial Districts
§ 901. Intent.
The regulations of this district are designed to increase the area and
accommodate the growing need for commercial districts within the Township.
However, since this district is located in a predomi nantly rural, agricultural
area, uses permitted shall be designed and located so as to blend aesthetically
with the rural nature of the Township and shall be compatible with those same
uses.
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.01A)
§ 902. Permitted Uses.
   1.   All uses permitted in Part 4, A - Agricultural District and subject to
the requirements therein.
   2.   Stores for the retailing of groceries, clothing, drugs, confection ary,
hardware, farm equipment and supplies, sporting goods, household appliances,
antiques, furniture, flowers, etc.
   3.   Printing and publishing establishments.
   4.   Shops for contractors, plumbing, heating, upholstering, etc.
   5.   Banks, savings and loan, and finance companies.
   6.   Communications towers subject to the requirements of §
1429.1; and communications antennas on existing structures subject to the
requirements of §
1429.2.
   7.   Hotels and motels.
   8.   Large scale solar energy system as a principal use or as an accessory
use subject to the requirements of §
1431 . [Ord. 1-12-22]
   9.   Medical hospitality house subject to the following requirements:
      A.   A medical hospitality house shall have no more than six (6)
bedrooms, each of which may be occupied by no more than two (2) persons.
      B.   The medical hospitality house shall be developed within an ex1sting
building, which may include a single family detached dwelling, as an adaptive
reuse of the existing building.
      C.   The medical hospitality house may have common facilities, such as a
kitchen, which may be used by persons occupying the bedrooms. No common
facilities in the medical hospitality house may be used by persons not staying
at the medical hospitality house.
      D.   The exterior appearance of the medical hospitality house shall be
substantially similar to the appearance of other existing buildings in the
neighborhood.
      E.   The entity operating the medical hospitality house shall demonstrate
that sewage and water facilities are available and properly sized for the
proposed occupancy.
      F.   The medical hospitality house shall be provided with one off-street
parking space for each bedroom. [Ord. 9-14-22]
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.02A; as amended by Ord. 2-14-18-1, 2/14/2018, § 4; by
Ord. 5-12-21-1, 5/12/2021, § 7; by Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/2022, § 3; and by Ord. 9-
14-22, 9/14/2022, § 2)
§ 903. Performance Required.
The above listed uses (2 through 5) must be non-objectionable in terms of smoke
or dust emission, odors, noise and glare, and shall not be injurious or have an
adverse effect or adjacent areas. Furthermore, all applications for development
shall be submitted to, the South Annville Township Planning Commission for
their review and approval prior to issuance of a Building and Zoning Permit.
Said uses shall be designed so as to continue the rural, agricultural nature of
the area. Structures shall, therefore, be appropriately constructed and
landscaped.
   Should the Planning Commission disapprove said application or should the
Zoning Officer feel there is any possibility of an adverse effect to the
general health, safety and welfare of local residents, the applicant must prove
the contrary to the Zoning Hearing Board before a permit is issued.
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.03A)
§ 904. Lot Area, Building Height and Yard Requirements.
A lot width, lot area and lot depth of not less than the dimensions shown in
the following table shall be provided for every principal building hereafter
erected or altered for any use permitted in this district.
TABLE OF C-2 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
 
              Lot Requirements             Yard Requirements
               Min. Lot Min. Lot Max. Lot
               Area     Width    Coverage % Front One Side Total Sides Rear
               (Sq.ft.)
Nonresidential 3 acres  250'     70%        100'  50'      100'        50'
Uses
Agricultural   3 acres  200'     30%        50'   20'      40'         50'
Uses
Residential    3 acres  200'     15%        50'   20'      40'         50'
Uses
 
[Ord. 9-13-06-01]
   A.   No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-
five feet (35') in height, unless authorized as a Special Exception by the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.04A; as amended by Ord. 9-13-06-01, 9/13/2006, § 2)
§ 905. Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
   1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with Part 15 of this
Chapter. In addition to the requirements of Part 15, parking areas may be
included in seventy percent (70%) of the required yards of the C-2 Commercial
District. All yards or portions of yards not used for parking shall be
appropriately landscaped and maintained.
   2.   Each business use established or expanded after the date of adoption of
this Chapter shall provide off-street loading and unloading space at the side
or rear of the building for each four thousand (4,000) square feet of floor
area in each building. Such space or spaces shall not be less than six hundred
and sixty (660) square feet in area with a dimension of twelve (12) by fifty-
five feet (55') per space, with a clearance of not less than fifteen feet (15')
in height. Required spaces shall be located exclusive of any public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.05A)
§ 906. No Outside Storage.
There is to be no outside storage of equipment and/or building materials in
this district.
(Ord. 11/8/1980, § 10.06A)
Part 10
I - Industrial Districts
§ 1001. Intent.
This district is designed to promote a compatible combination of light
industrial, professional and commercial uses in an environment where such uses
can complement each other and the surrounding environs. It is also the intent
of this district to limit the adverse effect of the permitted, special
exception and conditional uses on the existing transportation network and
ensure compatibility with the surrounding zoning districts. Attractive
buildings, larger lots and inoffensive processes characterize such uses. To
these ends, the District is intended to discourage and minimize air and water
pollution, noise, glare, heat, vibration, fire and safety hazards and other
detriments to the human and natural environment.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3)
§ 1002. Permitted Uses.
In an (I) Industrial District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be erected, which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
in whole or in part, for any purpose except those listed below, and all such
uses shall be subject to land development plan approval in accordance with the
Lebanon County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance and those regulations
specified elsewhere in this Chapter:
   A.   Offices or office complexes.
   B.   Business services, such as banks, credit unions, loan companies and
other financial institutions, real estate and insurance agencies, utility
offices, government, business and professional offices and veterinary clinics.
   C.   Light manufacturing, fabricating, processing, packaging, compounding,
or assembling activities conducted within a completely enclosed building and
screened in accordance with the requirements of § 1004.4.A.
   D.   Wholesale, warehousing distribution centers and contractors' supply
centers conducted within a completely enclosed building and screened in
accordance with the requirements of § 1004.4.A.
   E.   Medical research laboratories and pharmaceutical facilities.
   F.   Repair services, such as radio, television and appliance shops.
   G.   Plumbing and HVAC, carpentry, electrical, roofing and similar
contracting businesses.
   H.   Construction vehicles and equipment sales and services.
   I.   Newspaper and printing establishments.
   J.   Fitness center, health club, golf driving range and batting cages.
   K.   Day care centers.
   L.   Personal services, such as barbershops, beauty salons, photographic
studios, coin operated laundromats, tailor, dressmaking, millinery and dry
cleaning and laundry services, upholstery operations and shoe-repair shops.
   M.   Municipal buildings and facilities.
   N.   Fuel dispensing facility subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   Parking. At least one (1) standard vehicle parking space for every
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor area and at least one (1)
large vehicle parking space for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross
floor area. Fueling spaces shall not be counted as a parking space. The
standard vehicle parking space size shall be as regulated elsewhere in this
Chapter and the large vehicle parking space shall be a minimum of twelve (12)
feet wide by sixty (60) feet long.
      (2)   Minimum Setbacks from Street Right-of-Way Lines.
         (a)   Fuel pumps. Twenty-five (25) feet.
         (b)   Building. Fifty (50) feet.
         (c)   Fuel canopy roof. Twenty (20) feet.
         (d)   Fuel canopy supporting structure. Twenty-five (25) feet.
      (3)   Fuel Pumps and All Related Service Equipment. Fuel pumps and all
related service equipment shall be set back not less than twenty-five (25) feet
from any lot line and so located that vehicles stopped for service will not
extend over the property line. The maximum storage quantities of flammable
liquids as regulated under §
1420.15.B of this Chapter may be exceeded if the liquid is stored underground
and all required Federal, State and Local permits and approvals have been
obtained.
      (4)   Access Drives.
         (a)   Minimum offset from intersection of street right-of- way lines.
Right in, right out only access drive shall have a minimum offset of twenty-
five (25) feet. All other access drives shall comply with §
1516.D.
         (b)   Side lot line offset. Ten (10) feet.
         (c)   Minimum width. Sixteen (16) feet.
         (d)   Maximum width. Fifty (50) feet.
         (e)   Minimum separation of drives on same lot shall meet §
1516.D.
      (5)   Curbing. A concrete curb of at least six (6) inches in height shall
be placed along all street right-of-way lines and along the entrance portion of
each access drive.
      (6)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as regulated elsewhere in this
Chapter; however free-standing ground pole signs shall be permitted an
additional fifty (50) square feet on each side to accommodate the display of
fuel prices. The maximum total sign area of all signs shall also be increased
by one hundred (100) square feet if the lot fronts on one (1) street and by two
hundred (200) square feet if it is a corner lot to accommodate the display of
fuel prices. Fuel price display signs shall be permitted to use LED lights to
display the prices and use any light bulb color; however such sign shall be
located so as to not create confusion and create a traffic hazard with
motorists traveling on the public street. The applicant shall demonstrate that
any sign with red, yellow or green lights is located at least one hundred fifty
(150) feet from any traffic signal.
      (7)   Storage. An area enclosed by a wall or fence, screened from view of
adjoining properties, shall be provided whenever trash and recyclable materials
are stored outdoors. No materials may be stored so as to create a fire hazard.
      (8)   Lighting. All lights must be diverted inward and downward. Lighting
shall be as regulated elsewhere in this Chapter; however lighting levels at
outdoor fueling areas shall not exceed forty-five (45) foot-candles at ground
level and lighting levels in parking areas and traffic aisles shall not exceed
ten (10) foot-candles at ground level. Lighting levels at outdoor fueling areas
shall not be less than ten (10) foot-candles at ground level. Lighting levels
in parking areas and traffic aisles shall be provided at a minimum average of
three (3.0) foot-candles at ground level.
      (9)   Circulation. The applicant shall provide truck turning templates
with the zoning permit application (if the applicant dis not do so as part of
the land development approval process) to demonstrate that the largest
anticipated vehicle can safely negotiate turns in to, out of and through the
site without encroaching on opposing traffic lanes, parking areas, fueling
islands, and other proposed improvements.
[Ord. 10-14-15]
      O.   Large scale solar energy system as a principal use or as an
accessory use subject to the requirements of § 1431. [Ord. 1-12-22]
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3; by Ord. 10-14-15,
10/14/2015, § 2; by Ord. 4-10-19, 4/10/2019, §§ 1-2; and by Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/
2022, § 4)
§ 1003. Special Exception Uses.
The following uses and activities are permitted as Special Exceptions, upon
approval by the Zoning Hearing Board as provided for in Part 19 of this
Chapter:
   A.   Reserved for future use.
   B.   Restaurants, cafes, delis and other places serving food subject to:
      (1)   Restaurants, cafes, delis and other places serving food shall be
primarily intended to serve the employees, tenants and users of the industrial
district.
      (2)   The primary operation of the facility shall be for food that is
served and consumed on the premises where prepared.
      (3)   Restaurants, cafes, delis and other places serving food shall not
include entertainment and or dancing.
      (4)   No establishment will be permitted which allows or permits patrons
to bring their own alcoholic beverages onto the premises for consumption
thereon.
   C.   Automobile recycling and junkyards used for storage, wrecking, and
converting used or discarded materials provided that the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot of ten (10) acres.
      (2)   Such use shall be not closer than one hundred fifty feet (150) feet
to any road right-of-way and no less than five hundred (500) from any district
other than industrial.
      (3)   Such use shall be completely enclosed by an evergreen screen
planting to be planted and maintained at a height of not less than eight (8)
feet backed by a solid fence no less than six (6) feet in height.
   4.   Air fields, strips, or landing facilities and buildings accessory
thereto provided that the following conditions are met:
      A.   Minimum lot area of ten (10) acres.
      B.   Applicant shall submit a plot plan of the lot indicating the runway
and approach area and existing residences located within a five hundred (500)
foot radius of the runway.
      C.   Runway shall be no closer than one hundred (100) feet to any
residential district, and no closer than fifty (50) feet to any adjoining
property line or road right-of-way line.
      D.   A description of equipment and facilities to be utilized, and a
description of overall development plans for the lot shall be made available to
the Zoning Hearing Board.
      E.   The airport approach area shall be defined as an area three hundred
(300) feet wide and lying within and below an inclined plane extending outward
horizontally one thousand (1,000) feet at a ratio of one (1) foot of height for
each twenty feet (20) from each end of runway. No building, structure or
airport hazard shall exceed one (1) foot in height, for each twenty (20) feet
of length of an established airport runway, with no structure or airport hazard
to exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height anywhere within the lot.
      F.   Any pulsating or flashing lighting is prohibited.
      G.   Flood lights, sport lights and other lighting devices shall be
arranged or shielded so as to illuminate parallel to the ground and not in an
upward direction.
      H.   Any radio or electronic device shall be permitted only with approval
and license by the Federal Communication Commission.
      I.   All facilities of this nature shall conform and operate under the
standards set by the FAA and the Pennsylvania Aeronautical Commission.
      J.   The Zoning Hearing Board may impose other conditions as are
appropriate to public safety and welfare, including hours of operation,
frequency of use and a location in relation to existing residences.
   5.   Uses which, in the opinion of the Zoning Hearing Board, are of the same
general character as those listed as permitted uses and which will not be
detrimental to the intended purpose of this district. In such instances, final
approval of the use shall be subject to the functions and procedures as
identified in this Chapter.
   6.   Adult uses in accordance with the requirements of §
1422. [Ord. 91102]
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3; by Ord. 91102, 9/
11/2002, § 5; and by Ord. 4-10-19, 4/10/2019, § 3)
§ 1004. Use Limitations.
   1.   All uses shall be provided for in accordance with the standards as
contained within Part 14, "Supplementary District Regulations."
   2.   Outdoor storage and display, when accessory to a permitted, special
exception or conditional use, shall be regulated as follows:
      A.   Display areas shall not occupy any part of the street right-of-way,
any areas intended or designed for pedestrian use, required off-street parking
areas, or required front yard.
         (1)   Areas used as outdoor display shall be considered as floor area
as if the display area is contained within a building. The area shall be
calculated using the perimeter of the entire display area.
      B.   Outdoor storage of materials is prohibited unless located within the
side or rear yard, enclosed within a fenced area and screened in accordance
with this Chapter.
         (1)   For the purposes of this Section, outdoor storage shall:
            (a)   Be an accessory use to the principal use of the property.
            (b)    Include accessory materials including, but not limited to,
shipping pallets or skids, disabled vehicles or equipment, waste or recyclable
products produced as a by-product of a manufacturing, assembly or processing
operation and other similar materials which are utilized from time to time on
the property.
            (c)    Exclude principal materials and components of products
delivered to the property and used as a part of a manufacturing, assembly or
processing operation on the property.
            (d)    Exclude principal materials, components of products, or
finished products manufactured, assembled, or processed on the property and
intended to be shipped from the property.
         (2)   The maximum area for outdoor storage shall be one thousand
(1000) square feet.
         (3)    Storage areas shall not occupy any part of the street right-of-
way, any areas intended or designed for pedestrian use or required off-street
parking areas.
   3.   Parking, Loading or Service Areas. All parking, loading or service
areas shall be provided in accordance with Part 15 of this Chapter.
   4.   Landscaping and Screening. All landscaping and screening shall be
installed in accordance with §
1418 of this Chapter.
      A.   Where required by Section 1002, a landscaped berm and screen shall
be provided within the required front yard along all existing public streets
within and adjoining the I-Industrial District subject to the following:
         (1)   The landscaped berm and screen shall include the following:
            a.   An earthen berm meeting the following minimum design
standards:
               i.   The earthen berm shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in
height.
               ii.   The earthen berm shall have a minimum eight (8) feet top
width for plantings.
               iii.   An earthen berm having slopes of 3 to 1 or less can be
landscaped in grass or other vegetative ground cover.
               iv.   All earthen berms having slopes of greater than 3 to 1
shall be constructed, landscaped and stabilized utilizing site specific soil-
stabilizing practices.
               v.   No earthen berm shall have a slope greater than 2 to 1.
               vi.   All earthen berm slopes shall have a continuous bed of
vegetative ground cover over at least ninety-five (95) percent of the berm
within two (2) years.
            b.   A mix of shade tolerant evergreen trees and shade tolerant
evergreen and semi-evergreen broadleaf shrubs shall be provided on top of the
berm which, at maturity, shall provide full opacity from the ground to a
minimum height of thirty (30) feet.
            c.   Screening material shall meet the following American Standard
for Nursery Stock standards as published by the American Horticulture Industry
Association d/b/a AmericanHort, latest edition:
               i.   Type 4 Conifers (evergreen) trees
                  (a)   Natural or semi-sheared
                  (b)   Minimum planted height of eight (8) feet
               ii.   Type 4 and Type 5 broadleaf evergreens
                  (a)   Natural or semi-sheared
                  (b)   Minimum planted height of eighteen (18) inches
                  (c)   Minimum planted spread of twelve (12) to fifteen (15)
inches
                  (d)   Container stock #3, #5 or #7
         (2)   The landscape berm and screen shall not be located within any
portion of any existing or proposed street right-of-way.
         (3)   Access drives, streets, site signage, pedestrian sidewalks and
trails, and underground and overhead utilities are permitted within the
landscaped berm and screen. Access drives, streets and utilities shall cross
the landscape berm and screen perpendicular to the adjoining street.
         (4)   No outside storage or display area, off-street parking, or
parking aisle shall be within the landscaped berm and screen. No outside
storage or display area or off-street parking shall be located between the berm
and the street right-of-way.
         (5)   The landscape berm width may be reduced to a minimum of four (4)
feet in width to accommodate stormwater management conveyance facilities,
provided the screening requirements of § 1004.A.1.b (above) are met. Stormwater
storage and/or infiltration facilities shall not be located in a manner to
reduce the minimum eight (8) feet width of the landscaped berm.
         (6)   The landscaped berm and screen shall be designed, constructed
and maintained to avoid encroachment into:
            a.   Any utility easement existing on the effective date of this
ordinance
            b.   Any existing or proposed required minimum safe stopping sight
distance or clear sight triangle
            c.   Any existing or proposed stormwater management facility
            d.   Any existing or proposed pedestrian facilities.
      B.   All other applicable Screening and Landscaping Requirements as
required in § 1418 shall apply.
         (1)   Where the requirements of this § 1004.4 conflict with the
requirements of § 1418, the requirements of this § 1004.4 shall apply.
   5.   Signs. All signs shall be provided in accordance with Part 16 of this
Chapter.
   6.   Illumination. All illumination shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of § 1517 and § 1518(J) of this Chapter.
   7.   Performance Standards. All uses shall comply with the performance
standards as provided for in § 1420 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3; and by Ord. 4-10-
19, 4/10/2019, §4)
§ 1005. Lot Area, Lot Width, and Coverage Requirements.
   1.   Minimum lot area: One (1) acre.
   2.   Minimum lot width at the street line: One hundred fifty (150) feet.
   3.   Minimum landscape area: Thirty (30) percent.
   4.   Improvements to a tract existing on the effective date of this section
proposed through one or more subdivision and/or land development plans that
cumulatively propose five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet or more of
impervious coverage shall with each application for approval of a subdivision
and/or land development plan and zoning permit application:
      (a)   Calculate the existing loading of stormwater pollutants within the
boundaries of the total tract area of the proposed development in pounds/year.
For the purposes of this provision, the total tract area shall include all land
within the Industrial District held in single and separate ownership on
March_____, 2019, whether acquired by one or more deeds or acquired at
different times or separated by a public street. This calculation can be used
for each application for development of a portion of such total tract.
Calculate the minimum required reduction in loading, in pounds/year for the
portion of the total tract area being developed and select the Best Management
Practice (BMP) to reduce the loading rates; and demonstrate the selected BMP
will achieve the minimum reductions. The pollutants of concern and associated
required reductions for the Chesapeake Bay in South Annville Township are set
forth in the NPDES Permit for the Township Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System in effect on the date an application for development is filed. As of
January 1, 2019, the pollutants of concern and associated required reductions
are sediment (ten (10) percent), phosphorus (five (5) percent), and nitrogen
(three (3) percent).
      (b)   The Township follows the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection's (PA DEP) presumptive approach in which it is assumed that a ten
(10) percent reduction in sediment will accomplish a five (5) percent reduction
in phosphorus and a three (3) percent reduction in nitrogen.
      (c)   The BMPs implemented to achieve the required pollutant reduction
shall not be counted towards satisfying the Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance requirements for stormwater management for development of the site.
      (d)   Off-Street Parking BMP Requirements - The implementation of BMP's
for water quality improvement, in addition to the required stormwater
management facilities, shall be applied to the employee and customer designated
parking areas not subject to heavy duty pavement. Heavy duty pavement cannot be
used in employee and customer designated parking areas. A minimum five (5)
percent of the required parking spaces shall be designed as a pervious surface.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3; and by Ord. 4-10-
19, 4/10/2019, § 6)
§ 1006. Setback Requirements.
   1.   Front Yard. Front yard setback distances are determined by the kind of
road or highway on which the property fronts as follows:
      A.   Existing Perimeter Street. Eighty (80) feet from the street right-
of-way line or ninety-five (95) feet from street centerline, whichever is
greater.
      B.   Internal Collector Street. Seventy (70) feet from the street right-
of-way line or eighty-five (85) feet from street centerline, whichever is
greater.
      C.   Internal Local Street. Sixty (60) feet from the right-of-way line or
seventy-five (75) feet from the street centerline, whichever is greater.
   2.   Side Yard. A minimum of fifty (50) feet each side.
      A.   Loading areas, and outdoor display and storage areas shall be set
back at least fifteen (15) feet from the side lot lines.
   3.   Rear Yard. A minimum of fifty (50) feet in depth.
      A.   Loading areas, and outdoor display and storage areas shall be set
back at least twenty (20) feet from rear lot line.
   4.   Residential Buffer. No building shall be located nearer than two
hundred (200) feet, and no other structure, off-street parking lot, loading
area, dumpster or outdoor storage area shall be located nearer than fifty (50)
feet, to an existing residential building unless the owner of such residence
waives this restriction in writing to the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3)
§ 1007. Building Height Regulations.
   1.   The maximum building height shall be three (3) stories or forty (40)
feet, which ever is less.
   2.   The height of a principal building may be increased to a maximum height
of one hundred twenty (120) feet provided the structure is setback a horizontal
distance at least equal to its height from all right-of-way and property lines.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3; and by Ord. 4-10-
19, 4/10/2019, § 5)
§ 1008. Design Features/Bonus Incentives.
To reduce the potential for traffic congestion, the following bonus incentives
are available when prescribed design features are provided. These bonus
incentives and specified design features are as follows:
 
Design Features                         Bonus Incentive
Coordinated vehicular access between    A five (5) percent increase in the
two or more adjoining land uses that    maximum permitted lot coverage for each
make use of only one shared access      use.
drive onto an adjoining road.
Coordinated off-street parking between  Waiver of one side yard setback
two or more adjoining land uses that    requirement as it applies to the off-
share a single access drive. Such       street parking lot, and a fifteen
parking lots shall be arranged to       percent (15) reduction in the total
provide ready access to all properties. number of parking spaces required for
                                        all uses.
                                        A five (5) percent increase in the
Coordinated signage with two or more    maximum permitted lot coverage and a
uses sharing only one free standing     twenty-five percent (25) increase in
sign.                                   the maximum permitted size of any
                                        attached or freestanding signs.
 
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 3)
Part 11
Floodplain District
§ 1101. Intent.
   These regulations are designed to prohibit or restrict construction of any
permanent building or structure, or uses and activities in the Special Flood
Hazard Area (SFHA), in order to prevent unnecessary loss of life or property
from possible natural catastrophe, as well as to protect stream valleys from
ecologically detrimental development that may contribute to a water pollution
problem, create erosion in and around watercourses, and induce flooding
conditions. In addition, these provisions are intended to prevent the creation
of health and safety hazards, the extraordinary and unnecessary expenditure of
public funds for flood protection and relief, to minimize future flood damage,
comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements, and promote
the general health, welfare, and safety of the community. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/
2020, § 1)
§ 1102. Applicability.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or development anywhere
within South Annville Township unless a permit has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1103. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   This Part supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in effect
in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions shall
remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are more
restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of this
Part, the more restrictive shall apply.
   All permitted uses shall be regulated by the provisions of the base zoning
district as shown on the Official Zoning Map. Where there happens to be
conflicts between the provisions or requirements of either the SFHA - AE Zones
and the base zoning district, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. In
the event that any portion of the SFHA be declared inapplicable as a result of
any legislative or administrative actions or judicial discretion, the base
zoning district shall be deemed to be the district in which the SFHA is
located. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1104. Severability.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
Part shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of the Part, which shall remain in full force
and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this Part are hereby
declared to be severable. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1105. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Part is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on accepted
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This Part does not imply that areas outside any
identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages.
   This Part shall not create liability on the part of the Township or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this Part or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 4-8-
20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1106. Designation of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The Zoning Officer is hereby appointed to administer and enforce this Part
and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain
Administrator may: (A) Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in
these regulations, (B) Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors, and
other employees, or (C) Enter into a written agreement or written contract with
another agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of
these regulations. Administration of any part of these regulations by another
entity shall not relieve the Township of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. §59.22.
   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain
Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Township Manager. (Ord. 4-8-20,
4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1107. Permits Required.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the Township. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1108. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   1.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this Part and all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
   2.   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and
the U.S. Clean Water Act, Section 404, 33, U.S.C. 1344. No permit shall be
issued until this determination has been made.
   3.   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the proposed cost of
improvements or repairs and the pre-improvement market value of the structure,
so that a substantial improvement/substantial damage determination can be made,
in accordance with FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial Damage Desk
Reference.
   4.   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of repairs to the
subject building, so that any cumulative substantial damage concerns can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   5.   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He/she shall
make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   6.   In the discharge of his/her duties, the Floodplain Administrator shall
have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or development in
the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper credentials, at any
reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   7.   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board of Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
   8.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity, or for the
lifetime of the structure, all records associated with the requirements of this
ordinance including, but not limited to, finished construction elevation data,
permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   9.   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for submitting
a biennial report to FEMA concerning community participation in the National
Flood Insurance Program as requested.
   10.   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in this
Part as the Floodplain Administrator.
   11.   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the
UCC, 34 Pa. Code and the 2015 IBC and the 2015 IRC, or the latest revision
thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020,
§ 1)
§ 1109. Application Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Application for a permit shall be made, in writing, to the Floodplain
Administrator on forms supplied by the Floodplain Administrator. Such
application shall contain the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.   Site location including address.
      E.   Listing of other permits required.
      F.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate.
      G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      B.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      C.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      D.   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      E.   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      F.   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used; and
      G.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   3.   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      A.   A completed permit application form.
      B.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one (1) inch being equal to one hundred (100) feet or less, showing the
following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale, and date.
         (2)   Topographic contour lines, if available.
         (3)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development.
         (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other access
ways.
         (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      C.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (1)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
         (2)   The elevation of the base flood.
         (3)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under the UCC, 34
Pa. Code, the 2015 IBC or the 2015 IRC, or the latest revision thereof as
adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      D.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations.
         (2)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood.
         (3)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the effect of any proposed development within a
Floodway Area (See § 1117.1) will not increase the base flood elevation at any
point.
         (4)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway or an A Area (See §§ 1117.2,
1117.3) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will
not increase the base flood elevation at any point within the community.
         (5)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces associated with the base flood.
         Such statement shall include a description of the type and extent of
flood proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design of the
structure and/or the development.
         (6)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with
§1123.6, Storage, and §1124, Development Which May Endanger Human Life,
including:
            (a)   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§1123.6 and 1124 which are intended to be used,
produced, stored or otherwise maintained on site.
            (b)   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in Section 1124 during a base flood.
         (7)   The appropriate component of DEP's "Planning Module for Land
Development."
         (8)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of DEP, to implement and maintain erosion and sedimentation
control.
   4.   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, in accordance
with the current schedule of fees adopted by resolution by the Township. (Ord.
4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1110. Review of Application by Others.
      A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g. Planning Commission, Township Engineer, etc.) for
review and comment. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1111. Changes.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1112. Placards.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard, or similar document, which shall be displayed on the premises during
the time construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
permit, the date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain
Administrator. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1113. Start of Construction.
   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within 90 days
after the date of permit issuance. Work shall also be completed within twelve
(12) months after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire
unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   The actual start of construction means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted by
the applicant, who sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request and the original permit is
compliant with this Part and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the extension is
granted. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1114. Enforcement.
   1.   Notices.
    The Floodplain Administrator shall give notice of violations of this Part
in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code and Part 20 of this
Chapter.
   2.   Penalties for Violation.
   Persons violating this Part shall be subject to penalties and remedies as
set forth in the Municipalities Planning Code and Part 20 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1115. Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this Part, may
appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within thirty (30) days after the decision, determination or action of the
Floodplain Administrator.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider the
appeal in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code and this Chapter.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1116. Identification of Floodplain Areas.
   The identified floodplain area shall be:
   1.   Any areas of South Annville Township, classified as Special Flood
Hazard Areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated July 8, 2020, and issued by FEMA or the
most recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of
the Flood Insurance Study and,
   2.   Any Community Identified Flood Hazard Areas.
   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the Township and declared to be a part of this
Part. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1117. Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain Areas.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
   1.   The Floodway Area shall be those areas identified in the FIS and the
FIRM as floodway and which represent the channel of a watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without increasing the water surface elevation by more than one (1) foot at any
point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those Special Flood
Hazard Areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS and FIRM.
      A.   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
Township during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      B.   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall
be allowed, unless the appropriate permit is obtained from the DEP Regional
Office.
      C.   Permitted Uses.
    In the floodway areas, the following uses and activities are permitted
provided that (1) the information required in this Part is submitted as a part
of the permit application, (2) they are in compliance with the provisions of
the nearest zoning district, (3) they will not result in any increase in the
level of the Base Flood Elevation anywhere, (4) they are not prohibited by this
or any other ordinance, (5) they do not require the placement or use of
permanent on-lot sewage facilities within the floodway, and (6) they do not
require encroachments, fill, new construction, manufactured homes, substantial
improvements, vehicles or parts thereof, storage of materials and equipment, or
other development:
         (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, horticulture, truck
gardening, nurseries, pasturing, grazing, forestry, and sod farming and wild
crop harvesting.
         (2)   Public and private recreational uses and activities such as
parks; picnic grounds; areas for short term camping or recreational vehicle
uses; golf courses, boat launching and swimming areas; hiking, bicycling, and
horseback riding trails; wildlife and nature preserves; game farms; fish
hatcheries; shooting ranges; and hunting and fishing areas. Open structures
such as picnic pavilions, consisting of a slab, open structural supports such
as posts and pillars, and a roof shall be permitted only if constructed in
compliance with the UCC.
         (3)   All uses and open structures customarily accessory to permitted
uses in the nearest adjoining district such as yard areas, gardens, or play
areas; signs, unroofed porches, patios, open porches or carports provided that
said structures are not enclosed by screening, latticing, studs, or structural
supports less than eight (8) feet apart which would in any manner restrict the
flow of flood water and debris and are in compliance with the applicable
requirements of the UCC; impervious parking and loading areas; and airport
landing strips. Accessory structures shall not include manufactured homes,
vehicles or parts thereof.
         (4)   Utilities, public facilities and improvements such as railroads,
streets, bridges, transmission lines, pipelines, water and sewage treatment
plants, and other similar or related uses.
         (5)   Water-related uses and activities such as marinas, docks,
wharves, piers, etc.
         (6)   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other materials.
         (7)   Storage of materials and equipment provided that they are not
buoyant; toxic to humans, animals, or vegetation; flammable or explosive, and
are not subject to major damage by flooding; or provided that such material and
equipment is elevated at least two (2) feet above base flood elevation, is
firmly anchored to prevent flotation or movement; and/or can be readily removed
from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   2.   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood elevations
have been provided.
      A.   The AE Area adjacent to the floodway shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base
flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been delineated.
      B.   AE Area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an AE
zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood
elevations have been provided but no floodway has been determined.
         (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development shall be permitted in an AE Zone without
floodway, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed development together with all other existing and anticipated
development, would not result in an increase in flood levels within the entire
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
         (2)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured one hundred (100) feet landward from the top-of-bank of any
watercourse, unless the appropriate permit is obtained from the DEP Regional
Office.
   3.   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone on the
FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no base flood
elevations have been provided. The base flood elevation shall be determined
with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses,
computations, etc., shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough
technical review by the municipality.
      A.   Within any A Area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   4.   The AO and AH Area/District shall be those areas identified as Zones AO
and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to inundation by 1-
percent-annual-chance shallow flooding where average depths are between one and
three feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be established to guide
floodwaters around and away from structures on slopes.
   5.   Community Identified Flood Hazard Areas shall be those areas where the
Township has identified local flood hazard or ponding areas, as delineated and
adopted on a "Local Flood Hazard Map" using best available topographic data and
locally derived information such as flood of record, historic high water marks,
soils or approximate study methodologies. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1118. Changes in Identification of Area.
   The Identified Floodplain Area may be revised or modified by the Board of
Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change
to the Special Flood Hazard Area, approval must be obtained from FEMA.
Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than six (6) months after
the date such information becomes available, the Township shall notify FEMA of
the changes to the Special Flood Hazard Area by submitting technical or
scientific data. See §1121.2.B for situations where FEMA notification is
required. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1119. Boundary Disputes.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Zoning Officer and any party
aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Zoning Hearing
Board. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, §
1)
§ 1120. Jurisdictional Boundary Changes.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44 CFR
§60.3. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1121. Technical Provisions.
   1.   Alteration or Relocation of Watercourse.
      A.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the DEP Regional Office.
      B.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      C.   In addition, FEMA and DCED, shall be notified prior to any
alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
   2.   When the Township proposes to permit the following encroachments:
      •   any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway; or
      •   any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
      •   alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited to
installing culverts and bridges)
   the applicant shall (as per 44 CFR Part 65.12):
      A.   apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur.
      B.   Upon receipt of the FEMA Administrator's conditional approval of map
change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition.
      C.   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, the applicant shall
provide as-built certifications. FEMA will initiate a final map revision upon
receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 CFR Part 67.
   3.   All buildings and structures, including manufactured homes, shall be
constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect upon the flow and
height of flood water.
   4.   The following shall not be placed or caused to be placed in any of the
designated SFHA: Fences, except two-wire fences, other structures, or other
matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water,
or that will catch or collect debris carried by such water, or that is placed
where the natural flow of the stream of flood waters would carry the same
downstream to the damage or detriment of either public or private property
adjacent to the floodplain.
   5.   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this Part and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   6.   The Township will endeavor to coordinate its flood plain management
program with neighboring municipalities, particularly when the property(ies) in
question is located near a Township boundary. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1122. Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements.
   1.   Residential Structures.
      A.   In AE, Al-30, and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two (2)
feet or more above, the base flood elevation.
      B.   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated two (2) feet or more above, the base flood
elevation as determined in accordance with §lll7.3.
      C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) two (2) feet or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM.
      D.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2015 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2015 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the latest edition thereof adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and ASCE 24 and 34 Pa Code (Chapters 401-405 as
amended) shall be utilized, where they are more restrictive.
   2.   Non-residential Structures.
      A.   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a non-residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement elevated two (2) feet or more above, the Base Flood
Elevation, or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the
Regulatory Flood Elevation:
         (1)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and,
         (2)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      B.   In A Zones, where no Base Flood Elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed two (2) feet or
more above, the Base Flood Elevation as determined in accordance with §1117.3.
      C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed two (2) feet or
more above the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      D.   Any non-residential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled "Flood-Proofing Regulations" published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards. There should be a statement
submitted with the permit application and a statement submitted with the as-
built floodproofing certificate prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy.
      E.   Any non-residential structure that will be floodproofed must submit
the following to the Floodplain Administrator along with the non-residential
floodproofing certificate and prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy:
         (1)   An inspection and maintenance plan detailing the annual
maintenance of floodproofed components ensuring that all components will
operate properly under flood conditions. Components that must be inspected
include at a minimum:
            (a)   Mechanical equipment such as sump pumps and generators,
            (b)   Flood shields and closures,
            (c)   Walls and wall penetrations, and
            (d)   Levees and berms (as applicable).
         (2)   Flood emergency operation plan detailing the procedures to be
followed during a flooding event, and must include information pertaining to
how all components will operate properly under all conditions, including power
failures. The design professional shall produce the plan. An adequate plan
shall include the following:
            (a)   An established chain of command and responsibility with
leadership responsibilities clearly defined for all aspects of the plan.
            (b)   A procedure for notification of necessary parties when
flooding threatens and flood warnings are issued. Personnel required to be at
the building should have a planned and safe means of ingress and should have no
other emergency response duties during a flood event. Alternates should be
assigned in the event that the primary persons responsible are unable to
complete their assigned duties under the plan.
            (c)   A list of specific duties assigned to ensure that all
responsibilities are addressed expeditiously. The locations of materials
necessary to properly install all floodproofing components must be included in
the list.
            (d)   An evacuation plan for all personnel or occupants; those
without duties for the flood emergency as well as those with duties for
implementing the plan. All possible ingress and egress routes must be
identified.
            (e)   A periodic training and exercise program to keep personnel
and occupants aware of their duties and responsibilities. Training drills
should be held at least once a year and should be coordinated with community
officials.
      F.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2015 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2015 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the latest revision thereof as adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and ASCE 24 and 34 Pa. Code (Chapters 401-405 as
amended) shall be utilized, where they are more restrictive.
   3.   Space below the lowest floor.
      A.   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term "fully
enclosed space" also includes crawl spaces.
      B.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a net total area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed space installed
on two (2) separate walls.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (4)   Historic Structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this Part must comply with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a
specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure from the
National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places
must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic
Preservation Officer. Any exemption from requirements of this Part will be the
minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1123. Design and Construction Standards.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area:
   1.   Fill.
      A.   Filling or the dumping of fill material is prohibited in the SFHA on
vacant lots or on land not scheduled for approved construction activities. Fill
may ONLY be used in the SFHA to raise the finished surface of the lowest floor
of a structure to an elevation of a minimum of two (2) feet above the base
flood elevation provided the following conditions are met:
      B.   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally fifteen (15) feet beyond the building line from all points. For non-
residential structures, fill shall be placed to provide access acceptable for
the intended use. At grade access, with fill extending laterally fifteen (15)
feet beyond the building line, shall be provided to a minimum of twenty-five
(25%) percent of the perimeter of a non-residential structure.
      C.   Fill shall consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted.
      D.   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
permeability and resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling.
      E.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one (1) vertical on two (2)
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Zoning Officer.
      F.   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not adversely
affect adjacent properties.
      G.   Use of fill shall be permitted only when the property owner or
applicant provides a document acceptable by the Zoning Officer, certified by a
registered professional engineer, stating that the cumulative effect of the
proposed fill, in conjunction with the other anticipated development, will not
result in an increase in the water surface elevation of the base flood at any
point.
   2.   Drainage Facilities.
   Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to convey the flow of storm
water runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system shall ensure proper
drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away from buildings. The
system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of excess runoff onto
adjacent properties.
   3.   Water and Sanitary Sewer Facilities and Systems.
      A.   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      B.   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      C.   No part of any on-site waste disposal system shall be located within
any identified floodplain area. No variance shall be granted.
      D.   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
"Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages" and "The International
Private Sewage Disposal Code" shall be utilized.
   4.   Other Utilities.
   All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and telephone systems
shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed to minimize the
chance of impairment during a flood.
   5.   Streets.
   The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more than one (1) foot
below the regulatory flood elevation.
   6.   Storage.
   All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and not listed in
§1124, Development Which May Endanger Human Life, shall be stored at or above
the regulatory flood elevation or floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   7.   Placement of Buildings and Structures.
   All buildings and structures shall be designed, located, and constructed so
as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed
to have a minimum effect upon the flow and height of flood water.
   8.   Anchoring.
      A.   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.
      B.   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   9.   Floors, Walls and Ceilings.
      A.   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      B.   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a "marine" or "water-resistant" variety.
      C.   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are "water-resistant" and will
withstand inundation.
      D.   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other "water-resistant" material.
   10.   Paints and Adhesives.
      A.   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of "marine" or "water-resistant" quality.
      B.   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a "marine" or "water-resistant" variety.
      C.   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, etc.) used at or below
the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a "marine" or "water-
resistant" paint or other finishing material.
   11.   Electrical Components.
      A.   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least two (2) feet above
the base flood elevation.
      B.   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   12.   Equipment.
      A.   Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating units, and
other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall be
elevated at or above the regulatory flood elevation (two (2) feet above base
flood elevation) and shall be anchored to resist floatation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      B.   Ductwork shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
elevation (two (2) feet above base flood elevation).
   13.   Fuel Supply Systems.
   All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed to prevent the infiltration
of flood waters into the system and discharges from the system into flood
waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the drainage of these systems
in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
   14.   UCC Coordination.
   The standards and specifications contained in 34 Pa. Code (Chapters 401-
405), as amended and not limited to the following provisions shall apply to the
above and other sections and sub-sections of this Part, to the extent that they
are more restrictive and supplement the requirements of this Part.
      A.   International Building Code (IBC) 2015 or the latest revision
thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: Secs. 801, 1202, 1403,
1603, 1605, 1612, 3402, and Appendix G.
      B.   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2015 or the latest
revision thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: Sees. R104,
R105, R109, R322, Appendix E, and Appendix J. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1124. Development That May Endanger Human Life.
   Within any identified floodplain area, any structure of the kind described
in subsection 1 below, shall be prohibited. No variance shall be granted.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, and the
regulations adopted by DCED as required by the Act, any new or substantially
improved structure which:
      A.   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances; or,
      B.   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenanee of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or,
      C.   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances;
shall be prohibited. The following list of materials and substances are
considered dangerous to human life:
   •   Acetone
   •   Ammonia
   •   Benzene
   •   Calcium carbide
   •   Carbon disulfide
   •   Celluloid
   •   Chlorine
   •   Hydrochloric acid
   •   Hydrocyanic acid
   •   Magnesium
   •   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen
   •   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, etc.)
   •   Phosphorus
   •   Potassium
   •   Sodium
   •   Sulphur and sulphur products
   •   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides, and rodenticides)
   •   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not otherwise
regulated. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1125. Special Requirements for Subdivisions and Development.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least
fifty (50) lots or at least five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, in
identified floodplain areas where base flood elevation data are not available,
shall be supported by hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that
determine base flood elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be
prepared by a licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) and Letter of Map Revision (LOMR).
Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
(Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1126. Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes.
   1.   The placement or replacement of any manufactured homes in the floodway
areas is prohibited.
   2.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all manufactured
homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      A.   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least two (2) feet above base flood elevation; and
      C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
   3.   Equipment requirement.
      A.   Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating units, and
other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall be
elevated to the regulatory flood elevation (two (2) feet above BFE and shall be
anchored to resist floatation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      B.   Ductwork shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
elevation (two (2) feet above BFE).
   4.   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with the
manufacturers' installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer. Where
the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2015 "International Residential Building Code" or the "U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development's Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing," 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34
Pa. Code Chapter 401-405 shall apply.
   5.   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2015 IBC, and the 2015 IRC or the latest revision thereto as adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and 34 Pa. Code, as amended where appropriate
and/or applicable to units where the manufacturers' standards for anchoring
cannot be provided or were not established for the proposed unit(s)
installation. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1127. Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must:
   1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and
   2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, and
   3.   Be removed from the floodplain when a flood warning is issued. (Ord. 4-
8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1128. Prohibited Activities.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by DCED to
implement the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, the following activities
shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area:
   1.   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
   2.   Hospitals, sanitariums, sanatoriums, clinics, etc. whether public or
private.
   3.   Public or private nursing homes.
   4.   Jails or prisons.
   5.   Public or private schools or institutions of higher education.
   6.   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
   7.   Any other use, activity, or development not specifically permitted
under the terms of this article. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1129. Existing Structures.
   The provisions of this Part do not require any changes or improvements to be
made to lawfully existing structures. When an improvement is made to any
existing structure, the provisions of Section
1130 shall apply. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1130. Improvements.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
   1.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area/district.
   2.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within AE Area/District without floodway or A Areas that would, together with
all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE at any point.
   3.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of fifty percent (50%) or
more of its market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall
be undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this Part.
   4.   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2015 IBC and the 2015 IRC or most recent revision
thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   5.   Within any Floodway Area/District (See §1117.1), no new construction or
development shall be allowed except as permitted in §1117.1.
   6.   Within any AE Area/District without floodway (See §1117.2), no new
construction or development shall be located within the area measured one
hundred (100) feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless the
appropriate permit is obtained from the DEP Regional Office.
   7.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind occurring as a result of "cumulative substantial damage," as defined in
this Part, shall be undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of
this Part. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1131. Variances.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this Part would result in an
exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
Zoning Hearing Board may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1132. Variance Procedures and Conditions.
   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the procedures contained in Section
1115 and the following:
   1.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use, or
activity within any floodway area/district that would cause any increase in the
BFE.
   2.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use, or
activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with
all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one
(1) foot at any point.
   3.   No variance shall be granted for any of the other requirements
pertaining specifically to development regulated by Prohibited Activities
(Section
1128) or to Development Which May Endanger Human Life (Section
1124).
   4.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   5.   In granting any variance, the Zoning Hearing Board shall attach
whatever reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the
objectives of this Part.
   6.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Zoning Hearing Board shall notify
the applicant in writing that:
      A.   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance.
      B.   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   7.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Zoning Hearing Board shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
      A.   That there is good and sufficient cause.
      B.   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
      C.   That the granting of the variance will:
         (1)   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense,
         (2)   Nor create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public,
or conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and
regulations.
      D.   The danger of life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      E.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      F.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      G.   The susceptibility of the proposed structure or use and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners.
      H.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      I.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
      J.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      K.   The compatibility of the proposed use or structure with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      L.   The relationship of the proposed use or structure to the
Comprehensive Plan and flood plain management programs of the area.
      M.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood by ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      N.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      O.   Where appropriate, variances may be granted for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of historical structures as defined herein.
      P.   The granting of a variance shall provide relief only from the
specific term(s) of the flood plain regulations requested, not exemption from
all flood plain regulations, applicable insurance premiums, nor any state or
federal permitting requirements.
      Q.   Variances shall be granted only when and where the applicant
demonstrates compliance with the provisions of the Municipalities Planning
Code.
      R.   Variances shall be granted only when they are shown to be the
minimum relief necessary, considering the flood hazard.
      S.   Other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this Part.
      T.   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the one-
percent (1%) annual chance flood.
   8.   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall be
maintained by the Zoning Hearing Board. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the biennial report to the FEMA.
(Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1133. Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined in §
1134 below, words and phrases used in this Part shall be interpreted so as to
give this Part its most reasonable application. (Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
§ 1134. Specific Definitions.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE - a use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   ALLUVIAL SOILS MAPS - Soils maps prepared by the United States Department of
Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service which indicate the location of soil
types. Alluvial soils on these maps are soils of flood plains that are sediment
deposits washed from upland areas. The presence of an alluvial soil indicates
that the land has been flooded at some previous point in time.
   BASE FLOOD - a flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100 year flood" or one-percent
(1%) annual chance flood).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE - the volume of water resulting from a Base Flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) - the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1-percent (1%) or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT - any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING - a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   CUMULATIVE SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - flood related damages sustained by a
structure on two (2) or more separate occasions during a ten-year (10) period
for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event cumulatively
sums to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value of the structure before
the damages occurred.
   DCED - the Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any agency successor thereto.
   DECLARATION OF LAND RESTRICTION (Non-Conversion Agreement) - A form signed
by the property owner to agree not to convert or modify in any manner that is
inconsistent with the terms of the permit and these regulations, certain
enclosures below the lowest floor of elevated buildings and certain accessory
structures. The form requires the owner to record it on the property deed to
inform future owners of the restrictions.
   DEP - the Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania or any agency successor thereto.
   DEVELOPMENT - any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets, and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construetion of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of conerete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construetion of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA - the Federal Emergency Management Agency or any agency successor
thereto.
   FLOOD - a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - the official map on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) - the official report provided by FEMA that
includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and
Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA - a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING - any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY - the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1') foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE - The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES - any structure that is:
   1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
      A.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or
      B.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA - this term is an umbrella term that includes all
of the areas within which the community has selected to enforce floodplain
regulations. It will always include the area identified as the special flood
hazard area on the flood insurance rate maps and flood insurance study, but may
include additional areas identified by the community. See §§
1116 and
1117 for the specifics on what areas the community has included in the
identified floodplain area.
   LOWEST FLOOR - the lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Part.
   MANUFACTURED HOME - a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
includes park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar
vehicles which are placed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE - For the purposes of this Part, shall be determined utilizing
the market value established by the Lebanon County Tax Assessment Office.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION - structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective start date of this floodplain management ordinance
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction
started after December 16, 1980, and before the effective start date of this
floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the
time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON - an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE - is a structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after the community's
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated December 16, 1980, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE - is a structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before the community's
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated December 16, 1980, whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - a vehicle which is:
   1.   Built on a single chassis;
   2.   Not more than four hundred (400) square feet, measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty
truck,
   4.   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION - the base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of two (2) feet. The freeboard safety factor also applies to utilities
and ductwork.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA) - means an area in the floodplain subject
to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is
shown on the FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1 A30, AE, A99, or, AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION - Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within ninety (90) days after the date of
the permit and shall be completed within twelve (12) months after the date of
issuance of the permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Floodplain Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE - a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION - the division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten (10) acres, not involving any new street or easement
of access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage" or "cumulative substantial damage" regardless of
the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include any
project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state
or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   UCC - The statewide building code adopted by The Pennsylvania General
Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all municipalities whether
administered by the municipality, a third party or the Department of Labor and
Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial buildings, The Code adopted
The International Residential Code (IRC) and the International Building Code
(IBC), by reference, as the construction standard applicable with the state
floodplain construction. For coordination purposes, references to the above are
made specifically to various sections of the IRC and the IBC.
   VARIANCE - A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
   VIOLATION - means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR §§60.3(b)
(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE - a channel or conveyance of surface water having defined bed
and banks, whether natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent flow.
(Ord. 4-8-20, 4/8/2020, § 1)
Part 12
Conditional Use Procedures
§ 1201. Conditional Use Applications.
Any person desiring to obtain approval of a conditional use from the Board of
Supervisors shall submit an application to the Board of Supervisors which shall
contain all of the information required for an application for a special
exception set forth in §
1904 of this Chapter and shall submit a plan meeting all requirements of §
1904.1. No conditional use application is complete without payment of the
required fee.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1202. General Criteria.
When conditional uses are provided for in this Chapter, the Board of
Supervisors shall hear and decide requests for such conditional uses in
accordance with the stated standards and criteria. The Board of Supervisors may
grant approval of a conditional use provided that the applicant complies with
all of the specific standards and criteria for the particular use and all of
the following general standards for conditional uses. The burden of proof shall
rest with the applicant.
   A.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence compliance with all
conditions, requirements, standards, criteria and performance standards for the
conditional use enumerated in the Section which gives the applicant the right
to seek the conditional use and any other Section of this Chapter which relates
to the proposed use.
   B.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
conditional use shall be properly serviced by all existing public service
systems. The peak traffic generated by the subject of the application shall be
accommodated in a safe and efficient manner or all improvements shall be made
in order to effect the same. Similar responsibilities shall be assumed with
respect to other public service systems including, but not limited to, police
protection, fire protec tion, utilities, parks and recreation.
   C.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
conditional use shall be in and of itself properly designed with regard to
internal vehicle and pedestrian circulation, parking, buffering, and all other
elements of proper design as specified in this Chapter and any other governing
law or regulation.
   D.   The applicant shall provide the Board of Supervisors as part of the
application for the conditional use with sufficient plans, studies or other
data to demonstrate compliance with all applicable regulations.
   E.   The proposed conditional use shall not substantially injure or detract
from the use of neighboring properties or from the character of the
neighborhood, and the use of property adjacent to the area included in the
conditional use application shall be adequately safeguarded.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1203. Conditions.
The Board of Supervisors, in approving conditional use applications, may attach
conditions considered necessary to protect the public welfare and the purposes
listed above, including conditions which are more restrictive than those
established for other uses in the same zone. These conditions shall be
enforceable by the Zoning Officer and failure to comply with such conditions
shall constitute a violation of this Chapter and be subject to the penalties
described in this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1204. Notice and Hearing for Conditional Use Application.
The Board of Supervisors shall provide notice of the hearing on an application
for a conditional use in accordance with MPC requirements. The Board of Supervi
sors shall conduct the hearing on an application for a conditional use in
accordance with all MPC requirements.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1205. Site Plan.
Any site plan presented in support of the condi tional use shall become an
official part of the record for said conditional use. Approval of any
conditional use will also bind the use in accordance with the submitted site
plan; therefore, should a change in the site plan be required as part of the
approval of the use, the applicant shall revise the site plan prior to the
issuance of a zoning permit. Any subsequent change to the use on the subject
property not reflected on the originally approved site plan shall require the
obtainment of another conditional use approval.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1206. Expiration of Conditional Use Approval.
If the conditional use is granted, the applicant shall file an application for
and shall gain approval of a preliminary subdivision and/or land development
within eighteen (18) months of the date of the decision of the Board of
Supervisors. The applicant shall obtain approval of a final subdivision or land
development plan within thirty (30) months from the date of the decision of the
Board of Supervisors. Applications for preliminary subdivision and/or land
develop ment and final subdivision and/or land development shall contain all
relevant information from the conditional use process. The applicant shall
complete the construction authorized by a decision of the Board of Supervisors
granting conditional use approval within five (5) years from the date of the
decision. However, upon written request by the applicant and for good cause,
the Board may extend either the time within which to obtain approval of a
preliminary subdivision plan and/or to obtain approval of a final subdivision
plan and/or to complete construction. If the applicant fails to meet such time
periods, the conditional use approval shall expire.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
§ 1207. Number of Applications Which May Be Pending.
No more than one (1) application for the same property shall be pending before
the Board of Supervisors at any time. If an applicant files a second or
subsequent application with the Board of Supervisors while an application for
the same property is pending, the Board of Supervisors shall schedule a hearing
for the second or subsequent application as required by the MPC and may deny
the second or subsequent application for violation of this Section unless that
applicant has, in writing, withdrawn the application for the property which was
pending on the date the second or subsequent application was filed.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 7)
Part 13
Nonconforming Lots
Nonconforming Uses of Land
Nonconforming Structures
Nonconforming Uses of Structures and Premises and
Nonconforming Characteristics of Use
§ 1301.    Intent.
   1.   Within the districts established by this Chapter or amendment that may
later be adopted, there exist;
      A.   lots,
      B.   structures,
      C.   uses of land and structures, and
      D.   characteristics of use,
which were lawful before this Chapter was passed or amended but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this Chapter or future
amendment. It is the intent of this Chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed. It is further the intent of this Chapter that
nonconformities shall not be used as grounds for adding other structures or
uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   2.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this Chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a
nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a structure and land in
combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this Chapter by
attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen
from the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be
prohibited generally in the district involved.
   3.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Chapter upon which actual building construction
has been carried on diligently. Actual construction is hereby defined to
include the placing of construction materials in a permanent position and
fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition to removal of an
existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction,
provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.01)
§ 1302. Nonconforming Lots of Record.
In any district a permitted principal building and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record held in single and
separate ownership on the effective date of enactment or amendment of this
Chapter which meets the lot access and street frontage requirements of §
1410, and which lot of record held in single and separate ownership shall
either have frontage on a public street or have frontage on a private street or
right-of-way which is improved to meet the requirements of the applicable
subdivision and land development ordinance for a public street, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this Chapter. This §
1302 shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the minimum requirements
for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district in
which the lot is located, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other
than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard
requirements or the requirements of §
1410 and this Section concerning street frontage or frontage on a private
street or right-of-way improved to meet the applicable subdivision and land
development ordinance for a public street shall be obtained only through the
approval of variances from such requirements by the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.02; as amended by Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/2022, § 6)
§ 1303. Nonconforming Uses of Land (or Land With Minor Structures Only).
Where at the time of passage of this Chapter, lawful use of land exists which
would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Chapter, and where
such use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, provided that the following conditions are met:
   A.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than ninety (90) continuous days, any subsequent use of such
land shall conform to the regulations specified by this Chapter for the
district in which such land is located.
   B.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
Chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.03)
§ 1304. Nonconforming Structures.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this Chapter that could not be built under the terms of this Chapter by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on
the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure; such structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of a
structure be destroyed by any means, it shall not be reconstructed in a manner
which increases its nonconformity.
   C.   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.04)
§ 1305. Nonconforming Uses of Structures or of Structures and Premises in
Combination.
If lawful use involving individual structures with replacement cost of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, or of structure and premises in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Chapter in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged or extended, except on
contiguous property owned at the time of adoption of this Chapter.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this Chapter.
   C.   Any nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may as
a Special Exception be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the
Zoning Hearing Board, either by general rule or by making findings in the
specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change, the Zoning Hearing Board may require appropriate conditions and
safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this
subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than ninety percent (90%)
of the replacement cost at the time of destruction.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.05)
§ 1306. Repairs and Maintenance.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent any repairs or maintenance
of a nonconforming building or structure.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.06)
§ 1307.    Uses Under Special Exception Provisions not Nonconforming Uses.
Any use which is permitted as a Special Exception in a district under the terms
of this Chapter (other than a change through Zoning Hearing Board action from a
nonconforming use to another use not generally permitted in the district) shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall without further
action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 14.07)
Part 14
Supplementary District Regulations
§ 1401. Visibility at Intersections.
On a corner lot in any district, a clear sight triangle shall be provided at
all street and alley intersections. Within such triangles, no vision
obstructing object other than utility poles shall be permitted which obscures
vision above the height of thirty inches (30") and below ten feet (10')
measured from the centerline grade of intersecting streets. Such triangles
shall be established from a distance of:
   A.   Seventy-five feet (75') from the point of intersection of the center
line of intersecting streets, except that;
   B.   Clear sight triangles of one hundred feet (100') shall be provided for
all intersections with arterial and major streets as designated in the Township
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.01)
§ 1402. Lots in Two Districts.
Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single or joint ownership of a
lot of record at the time such line is established, the regulations for the
less restricted portion of such lot shall extend not more than thirty feet
(30') into the more restricted portion, provided that the lot has frontage on a
street in the less restricted district.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.02)
§ 1403. Front Yard Exceptions.
When an unimproved lot is situated between two (2) improved lots with front
yard setbacks less than those required for the district, the required front
yard of the unimproved lot may be reduced to a depth equal to the average of
the two, improved, adjoining lots; however, in no case shall a front yard be
reduced by more than fifty percent (50%) of the required front yard of the
district.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.03)
§ 1404. Foundations.
All dwelling units hereafter erected or altered shall have a permanent
continuous foundation. The footer shall be installed to a minimum depth of
twenty-four inches (24") below ground level.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.04)
§ 1405. Erection of More Than One Principal Structure on a Lot.
In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided that area, yard, and
other requirements of this Chapter shall be met for each structure as though it
were on an individual lot.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.05)
§ 1406. Accessory Buildings.
No separate accessory building shall be permitted in any required front or side
yard. In rear yards, they shall not be permitted within five feet (5') of the
rear lot line. However, where abutting a public street or alley, a garage shall
be no less than fifteen feet (15') from the right-of-way of said street or
alley.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.06)
§ 1407. Projections Into Yards.
The following projections shall be permitted into required yards and shall not
be considered in the determination of yard size or lot coverage:
   A.   Terraces or patios, provided that such terraces or patios are not under
roof or otherwise enclosed and not closer than five feet (5') to any adjacent
property line.
   B.   Projecting architectural features - bay windows, cornices, eaves,
fireplaces chimneys, window sills, or other architectural features - provided
they do not extend more than five feet (5') into any required yard nor closer
than five feet (5') to any adjacent property line.
   C.   Uncovered stairs and landings.
   D.   Open balconies or fire escapes provided such balconies or fire escapes
are not supported on the ground and do not project more than five feet (5')
into any required yard nor closer than five feet (5') to any adjacent property
line.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.07)
§ 1408.    Accessory Uses.
   1.   Private, non-commercial swimming pools which are designed to contain a
water depth of twenty-four inches (24") or more shall be located in a rear yard
only. Such pools shall be not less than fifteen feet (15') from side and rear
property lines, with a continuous fence not less than three and one-half feet
(3/') in height above the ground level. Such fence shall be equipped with a
lockable gate. Any deck, patio or impermeable surface, not under roof or
otherwise enclosed, which surrounds, is attached to, or associated with a pool
shall be no closer than ten feet (10') to the side and rear lot lines.
   2.   Private tennis courts shall be permitted within side or rear yards
provided that such facility shall not be less than fifteen feet (15') from side
or rear property lines.
   3.   Patios, paved terraces, or open porches shall be permitted in all yards
provided that no impermeable surface shall be within five feet (5') of any
property line.
   4.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit other uses not
mentioned so long as they are clearly accessory to the principal permitted use
of the land and do not create a threat to the public health, safety and/or
welfare of the community.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.08)
§ 1409. Exception to Height Regulations.
The height limitations of this Part shall not apply to church spires or farm
structures when permitted by other provisions of this Part, (i.e. silos, barns,
etc.), belfries, cupolas, penthouses, and domes not used for human occupancy
nor to chimneys, ventilators skylights, water tanks, bulkheads and similar
features, utility poles and standards and necessary mechanical appurtenances
usually carried above the roof level. Such features, however, shall be erected
only to such height as is necessary to accomplish the purpose they are to serve
and then only in accordance with any other government regulations.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.09)
§ 1410. Lots and Structures to Have Access.
Every lot hereafter created shall be, and every principal building or structure
hereafter erected or moved, shall be on a lot which is adjacent to and gains
access form a public street or a private street improved to the standards of a
public street in accordance with the Ordinances of the Township, or, if the
Township has not enacted such an ordinance, the applicable subdivision and land
development ordinance.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.10; as amended by Ord. 3-11-15-1, 3/11/2015, § 1)
§ 1411. Parking, Storage, or Use of Major Recreational Equipment.
For purposes of these regulations, major recreational equipment is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches
(designated to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent
trailers and the like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational
equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not. No major recreational
equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot used for residential purposes
except in a carport, enclosed building or to the rear of the front yard setback
line. Furthermore, such equipment may be parked anywhere on residential
premises for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours during loading or
unloading. No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any
location not approved for such use.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.11)
§ 1412. Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles.
Automotive vehicles of any kind without current license plates shall not be
parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in completely
enclosed structures.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.12)
§ 1413. Corner Lot Restrictions.
On every corner lot, there shall be provided on the side street a side yard
equal in depth to the required front yard of all other properties along said
side street. When such lot is bounded by a public thoroughfare or private road
which is less than twenty feet (20') in width (right-of-way), then those
requirements indicated for interior lots shall apply.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.13)
§ 1414. Municipal Uses.
In any district, a building may be erected, altered, or extended and land may
be developed which is arranged, intended, or designed for municipal uses,
including municipal recreation uses.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.14)
§ 1415. Public Utilities Exempt.
The regulations of this Chapter shall not apply to any existing or proposed
building, or extension thereof, used or to be used by a public corporation, if
upon petition of the corporation, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
shall, after a public hearing, decide that the present or proposed situation of
the building in question is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.15)
§ 1416. Home Occupation Regulations.
In any district, a member of the immediate family owning and residing on the
premises may use parts of a dwelling for any gainful occupation provided that
the following conditions are met and a permit is issued by the Zoning Officer.
   A.   Such occupation shall be clearly incidental or secondary to the use of
the property as a residence, and the use of the dwelling shall not change the
character thereof or show any exterior evidence of such secondary use other
than signs as are regulated by other South Annville Township Ordinance.
   B.   Home occupation shall be limited to the employment of not more than one
(1) assistant.
   C.   The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the dwelling and
shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the first
floor of the dwelling nor more than five hundred (500) square feet.
   D.   All parking shall be off-street and two off-street spaces shall be
provided in addition to that required of the residence unit.
   E.   Any home occupation which may create objectionable noise, fumes, odor,
dust, electrical interference, or more than normal residential traffic shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.16)
§ 1417. Gasoline Pumps and All Other Service Equipment.
Gasoline pumps and all other service equipment shall be setback not less than
twenty-five feet (25') from any lot line and/or street right-of-way and located
in such a manner that vehicles stopped for service will not extend over the
property line or right-of- way line.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 15.17)
§ 1418. Screening and Landscaping Requirements.
   1.   Yard Ground Cover. Any part of the site which is not used for
buildings, other structures, loading or parking spaces and aisles, sidewalks,
and designated storage areas shall be planted with an all-season ground cover
approved by the Board of Supervisors (e.g., grass, ivy, pachysandra, etc.). In
addition, gravel can be substituted if done in a manner to complement other
vegetative materials. It shall be maintained to provide an attractive
appearance, and all non-surviving plants shall be replaced.
   2.   Landscaping Requirements.
      A.   Any required landscaping (landscaping strips and interior
landscaping) shall include a combination of the following elements: deciduous
trees, ground covers, evergreens, shrubs, vines, flowers, rocks, gravel, earth
mounds, berms, materials. Artificial plants, trees and shrubs may not be used
to satisfy any requirements for landscaping and screening. No less than eighty
(80) percent of the required landscaping area shall be vegetative in
composition, and no outdoor storage shall be permitted within required
landscape areas.
      B.   For each seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of required area for
landscape strips, one (1) shade/ornamental tree shall be provided. For every
three hundred (300 square feet of interior landscaping required (for parking
lots), one (1) shade tree shall be provided. If deciduous, these trees shall
have a clear trunk at least five (5) feet above finished grade; if evergreen,
these trees shall have a minimum height of six (6) feet. All required landscape
strips shall have landscaping materials distributed along the entire length of
the lot line abutting the yard.
   3.   Screening. The following materials may be used: evergreens (trees,
hedges, or shrubs), walls, fences, earth berms, or other approved similar
materials. Any wall or fence shall not be constructed of corrugated metal,
corrugated fiberglass, or sheet metal. Screening shall be arranged so as to
block the ground level views between grade, and a height of six (6) feet.
Landscape screens must achieve this visual blockage within two (2) years of
installation.
   4.   Selection of Materials. Trees and shrubs shall be typical of their
species and variety; have normal growth habits, well-developed branches,
densely foliated, vigorous, fibrous root systems. They shall have been grown
under climatic conditions similar to those in the locality of the project or
properly acclimated to conditions of the locality of the project. Any tree or
shrub which dies shall be replaced. All landscaping and screening treatments
shall be properly maintained.
   5.   Landscaping Setbacks.
      A.   All landscaping materials, excluding yard ground covers, shall be
set back five (5) feet from any adjoining street right-of-way line.
      B.   No shrub nor tree shall be planted within twenty (20) and thirty
(30) feet, respectively, of any farm within the (A) Agricultural District.
   6.   Landscaping and Screening for Parking Areas. The following landscaping
and screening requirements shall apply to all parking lots:
      A.   Landscape Strip.
         (1)    When a parking lot is located in a yard which abuts a street, a
landscape strip shall be provided on the property along the entire street line.
If there is no building or other structure on the property, the parking lot
shall still be separated from the street by the landscape strip. This strip
shall be measured from the street right-of-way line. The strip may be located
within any other landscape strip required to be located along a street.
 
Number of Spaces in Parking Lot, Landscape Strip Width in Feet Measured
Including Joint Facilities       From Street Right-Of-Way Line
Less Than 100                    20
100 to 250                       25
Over 250                         30
 
         (2)    Unless otherwise indicated, all parking lots constructed in
side or rear yards (as defined herein) shall be set back a minimum of fifteen
(15) feet from all property lines. Such setbacks shall be used for landscape
strips.
      B.   Interior Landscaping.
         (1)    In any parking lot containing twenty (20) or more parking
spaces (except a parking garage), ten (10) percent of the total area of the lot
shall be devoted to interior landscaping.
         (2)    Such interior landscaping may be used, for example, at the end
of parking space rows to help visually define travel lanes through or next to
the parking lot.
         (3)    Landscape islands shall be provided to break up rows of parking
spaces at least every ten (10) parking spaces.
         (4)   All interior landscaping shall be provided in concrete curbed
islands.
         (5)    Landscaped areas situated outside the parking lot, such as
perimeter or peripheral areas and areas surrounding buildings, shall not
constitute interior landscaping.
         (6)    For the purpose of computing the total area of the parking lot,
all areas within the perimeter of the parking lot shall be counted, including
all parking spaces and access drives, aisles, islands, and curbed areas.
         (7)    A combination of trees, shrubs or other approved material shall
be provided. Ground cover alone shall not satisfy this landscape requirement.
         (8)    Shrubbery provided at interior drive intersections shall be
maintained at a maximum height of thirty (30) inches.
         (9)    At least one (1) shade tree shall be provided for each three
hundred (300) square feet (or fraction) of required interior landscaping area.
These trees shall have a clear trunk at least five (5) feet above finished
grade level.
         (10)   Parked vehicles may not overhang interior landscaped areas more
than two and one-half (2½) feet. Wheel stops or curbing shall be provided.
         (11)   If a parking lot of under twenty (20) spaces is built without
interior landscaping, and later additional spaces are added so that the total
is twenty (20) or more, the interior landscaping shall be provided for the
entire parking lot.
      C.   Screening.
         (1)    When a parking lot is located on a property which is within two
hundred (200) feet of, and which adjoins land in a residential zone or an
existing residential building, the parking lot shall be screened from the
adjoining residential property.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 4)
§ 1419. Required Traffic Study Standards.
   1.   All residential developments or subdivisions containing ten (10) or
more dwelling units or residential lots, all non-residential subdivisions
containing ten (10) or more lots or units of occupancy and all non-residential
developments (with the exception of agricultural development) with buildings
containing in excess of six thousand (6,000) square feet of usable space, shall
provide studies and reports in accordance with the requirements of this
Section. This requirement shall apply to any development that shall exceed any
of the above criteria either initially or cumulatively form the effective date
of this Section.
   2.   General. The applicant is responsible for assessing the traffic impacts
associated with a proposed development that meets any condition set forth
above. The Township or its designee will review the applicant's assessment and
supply available data upon request to aid the applicant in preparing the study.
The applicant shall be responsible for all data collection efforts required in
preparing a traffic impact study including peak period turning movement counts.
In addition, the applicant is responsible for ensuring that any submitted
development plans meet the minimum State and local standards for geometric
design. The study shall be conducted only by a professional engineer that has
verifiable experience in traffic engineering. Upon submission of a draft study,
the Township or its designee may review the data sources, methods and findings
and provide comments in written form. The applicant shall be responsible for
all costs for such review. The applicant will then have the opportunity to
incorporate necessary revisions prior to submitting a final study.
   3.   Traffic Impact Study Contents. A traffic impact study prepared for a
specific site development proposal shall follow the basic format shown below.
Additions or modifications should be made for a specific site, when
appropriate. This basic format allows for a comprehensive understanding of the
existing site, future conditions without the proposed use and the impacts
associated with the proposed development plan. Following is a brief narrative
for each section of a traffic impact study.
      A.   Introduction. This section identifies the land use and
transportation setting for the site and its surrounding area.
         (1)    Site and Study Area Boundaries. A brief description of the size
of the land parcel, general terrain features, legal right-of-way lines of the
highway, and the location within the jurisdiction and the region should be
included in this section. In addition, the roadways that afford access to the
site and are included in the study area should be identified. The exact limits
of the study area should be based on engineering judgment and an understanding
of existing traffic conditions at the site. In all instances, however, the
study limits must be mutually agreed upon by the developer, its engineer, and
the Township.2
         (2)   Site Description. This Section should contain a brief narrative
that describes the proposed development in terms of its function, size and near
and long term growth potential. This description should be supplemented by a
sketch which clearly shows the proposed development within the site boundaries,
its internal traffic circulation pattern and the location and orientation of
its proposed access points.
         (3)   Existing and Proposed Site Uses. The existing and proposed uses
of the site should be identified in terms of the various zoning categories in
the jurisdiction. In addition, identify the specific use on which the request
is made since a number of uses may be permitted under the existing ordinances.
         (4)   Existing and Proposed Nearby Uses. Include a complete
description of the existing land uses in the vicinity of the site as well as
their current zoning. The applicant should also state the proposed uses for
adjacent land, if known. This latter item is especially important where large
tracts of underdeveloped land are in the vicinity of the site and within the
prescribed study area.
         (5)   Existing and Proposed Roadways and Intersections. Within the
study area, describe existing roadways and intersections (geometrics and
traffic signal control) as well as improvements contemplated by government
agencies.
      B.   Analysis of Existing Conditions. This section describes the results,
as well as the data collection efforts, of the volume/capacity analysis to be
completed for the roadways and intersections in the vicinity of the site under
existing conditions.
         (1)   Daily and Peak Hour(s) Traffic Volumes. Provide schematic
diagrams depicting daily and peak hour(s) traffic volumes for roadways within
the study area. Turning movement and mainline volumes are to be presented for
the three (3) peak hour conditions (AM, PM and site generated) while only
mainline volumes are required to reflect daily traffic volumes. Include the
source and/or method of computation for all traffic volumes.
         (2)   Volume/Capacity Analyses at Critical Points. Utilizing
techniques described in the Highway Capacity Manual or derivative nomographs,
include an assessment of the relative balance between roadway volumes and
capacity. Perform the analysis for existing conditions (roadway geometry and
traffic signal control) for the appropriate peak hours.
         (3)   Level of Service at Critical Points. Based on the results
obtained in the previous section, levels of service (A through F) are to be
computed and presented. This section should also include a description of
typical operating conditions at each level of service.
      C.   Analysis of Future Conditions Without Development. This section
describes the anticipated traffic volumes in the future and the ability of the
roadway network to accommodate this traffic without the proposed zoning or
subdivision request. The future year(s) for which projections are made will be
specified by the Township and will be dependent on the timing of the proposed
development.
         (1)   Daily and Peak Hour(s) Traffic Volume. Clearly indicate the
method and assumptions used to forecast future traffic volumes in order that
the Township can duplicate these calculations. The schematic diagrams depicting
future traffic volumes will be similar to those described in §
1419(3)(B)(1)in terms of locations and times (daily and peak hours).
         (2)   Volume/Capacity Analyses at Critical Locations. Describe the
ability of the existing roadway system to accommodate future traffic (without
site development). If roadway improvements or modifications are committed for
implementation, present the volume/capacity analysis for these conditions.
         (3)   Levels of Service at Critical Points. Based on the results
obtained in the previous section, determine levels of service (A through F).
      D.   Trip Generation. Identify the amount of traffic generated by the
site for daily and the three (3) peak conditions. The trip generation rates
used in this phase of the analysis shall be justified and documented to the
satisfaction of the Township.
      E.   Trip Distribution. Identify the direction of approach for site
generated traffic for the appropriate time periods. As with all technical
analysis steps, the basic method and assumptions used in this work must be
clearly stated in order that the Township can replicate these results.
      F.   Traffic Assignment. Describe the utilization of study area roadways
by site generated traffic. The proposed traffic volumes should then be combined
with anticipated traffic volumes from §
1419(3)(C) to describe mainline and turning movement volumes for future
conditions with the site developed as the applicant proposes.
      G.   Analysis of Future Conditions With Development. This section
describes the adequacy of the roadway system to accommodate future traffic with
development of the site.
         (1)    Daily and Peak Hour(s) Traffic Volumes. Provide mainline and
turning movement volumes for the highway network in the study area as well as
driveways and internal circulation roadways for the appropriate time periods.
         (2)    Volume/Capacity Analyses at Critical Points. Perform a volume/
capacity analysis for the appropriate peak hours for future conditions with the
site developed as proposed, similar to §
1419(3)(B)(2) and §
1419(3)(C)(2).
         (3)    Levels of Service at Critical Points. As a result of the
volume/capacity analysis, compute and describe the level of service on the
study area roadway system.
         (4)    Final Design. Final design must address both traffic flow and
traffic safety considerations to provide safe operational characteristics.
      H.   Recommended Improvements. In the event that the analysis indicates
unsatisfactory levels of service will occur on study area roadways, a
description of proposed improvements to remedy deficiencies should be included
in this section. The levels of service shall not deteriorate to worse than C if
they are currently A or B, must be maintained if they are C, and improved to C
if they are D, E, or F. In addition, there shall be no increase in delay if a
satisfactory level of service can not be attained. These proposals would not
include committed projects by the State and local jurisdictions that were
described in §
1419(1) and reflected in the analysis contained in §§
1419(2) and
1419(3).
         (1)    Proposed Recommended Improvements. Describe the location,
nature and extent of proposed improvements to assure sufficient roadway
capacity. Accompanying this list of improvements are preliminary cost
estimates, sources of funding, timing, and likelihood of implementation.
         (2)   Volume/Capacity Analyses at Critical Points. Another iteration
of the volume/capacity analysis will be described which demonstrates the
anticipated results of making these improvements.
         (3)    Levels of Service at Critical Points. As a result of the
revised volume/capacity analysis presented in the previous section, present
levels of service for the highway system with improvements.
      I.   Conclusion. The last section of the report should be a clear concise
description of the study findings. This concluding section should serve as an
executive summary.
   4.   Contribution in Lieu of Preparation of Studies. If an applicant
believes that the preparation of traffic study and report required herein is
not warranted, he may request the Board to waive the preparation of such study,
provided:
      A.   The applicant for approval of any residential subdivision or land
development shall provide the Township with a certification of the number and
type of dwelling units to be constructed for the purpose of determining the
contribution in lieu of preparation of studies.
      B.   The applicant for approval of any commercial, industrial or
institutional subdivision or land development shall provide the Township with a
certification of the usable building floor area to be constructed for the
purpose of determining the contribution in lieu of preparation of studies.
      C.   The contribution in lieu of preparation of studies provided for
herein shall be in addition to all charges imposed by any Authority for tapping
and connection fees and shall be in addition to all other review, Authority,
and all sums otherwise agreed to be paid by the applicant.
      D.   The applicant shall enter into an agreement with the Township
setting forth the contribution in lieu of preparation of studies to be paid and
the studies to be waived by the Township. All such agreements shall be in a
form satisfactory to the Township Solicitor.
      E.   All contributions in lieu of preparations of fees shall be paid
prior to approval of the final plan by the Township Supervisors.
      F.   All developments receiving a modification of preparation of a
traffic evaluation study in accordance with this section shall provide, as a
minimum, the information required in §
1419(3)(D).
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 5)
2Editor's Note: Text underlined in Ord. 10-10-01 as enacted.
§ 1420. Industrial Performance Standards.
   1.   Legislative Intent.
      A.   The Board of Supervisors desires to provide standards for the
operation of industrial uses within the Township in order to protect the
health, safety and welfare of Township residents, workers at such
establishments, and visitors to the Township. Public health and safety shall be
maintained through control of noise, vibrations, dust and particulate
emissions, sulfur oxides, smoke, odor, toxic matter, detonable materials, fire
hazards, glare, heat, radioactive radiation, liquid or solid wastes, and
electromagnetic radiation. These items can cause a serious danger to the public
health and safety if they are not properly handled and limited. For example,
excessive noise has been demonstrated to cause hearing loss, and air pollution
has been proven to exacerbate respiratory difficulties. The dangers of fire are
well known, and the control of substances which create a risk of fire is
necessary.
      B.   The Board of Supervisors also seeks to protect the public health and
safety by imposing traffic and access control and landscaping and screening
requirements. Traffic and access controls will lessen the possibility of
vehicular accidents. Landscaping and screening will provide a barrier to the
use and discourage trespassing. The limitation of outdoor storage serves a
similar purpose.
      C.   The Board of Supervisors also seeks to protect the public through
the requirement of a plan of access in the event of emergency conditions. This
will allow police, firefighters and rescue personnel to gain access to the
premises in an efficient and safe manner in times of emergency.
   2.   Enforcement.
      A.   The industrial performance standards contained in this Part shall be
the minimum standards to be met and maintained by all industrial uses within
the Township.
      B.   For the purposes of this section, industrial uses shall be defined
as those uses, regardless of location, which are specified as permitted uses or
uses by special exception, in the Industrial District established by this
Chapter including uses of a similar nature not specifically identified in this
Chapter but which would be permitted in an industrial district.
      C.   Industrial uses existing within the Township on the effective date
of this Section which do not currently meet and maintain the standards
contained herein shall bring their operations into compliance within six (6)
months from the effective date of this Section. It shall be the responsibility
of the owner and/or operator of the industrial use to determine if the
industrial use meets and maintains the standards set forth in this Section.
      D.   The owner and/or operator of any industrial use existing on the
effective date of this Section shall have the right to appeal a determination
that the industrial use does not meet and maintain the industrial performance
standards contained herein to the Zoning Hearing Board in accordance with Part
19 herein.
      E.   The owner and/or operator of any industrial use may, as a special
exception, apply to the Zoning Hearing Board for relief from the requirements
of the industrial performance standards contained in this Part.
   3.   Exterior Uses and Storage.
      A.   For the purposes of this Section, outdoor storage shall:
         (1)   Be an accessory use to the principal use of the property.
         (2)   Include accessory materials including, but not limited to,
shipping pallets or skids, disabled vehicles or equipment, waste or recyclable
products produced as a by-product of a manufacturing, assembly or processing
operation and other similar materials which are utilized from time to time on
the property.
         (3)   Exclude principal materials and components of products delivered
to the property and used as a part of a manufacturing, assembly or processing
operation on the property.
         (4)   Exclude principal materials, components of products, or finished
products manufactured, assembled, or processed on the property and intended to
be shipped from the property.
      B.   All organic rubbish or storage shall be in airtight, vermin proof
containers.
      C.   All industrial uses, as defined herein and not located within the
Industrial District, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
      D.   In the Industrial District, and except as herein after provided, any
use is permitted either indoors or outdoors but in compliance with the
applicable performance standards.
         (1)    All industrial uses, including storage, within 200 feet of a
residential district boundary or an existing residential building, shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless the owner of such
residence waives this restriction in writing to the Board of Supervisors.
      E.   Within all other districts, all industrial uses, including storage,
within 500 feet of a residential district boundary or an existing residential
building, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless the
owner of such residence waives this restriction in writing to the Board of
Supervisors.
      F.   Outdoor storage of materials is prohibited unless located within the
side or rear yard, enclosed within a fenced area and screened in accordance
with this Chapter.
         (1)   The maximum area for outdoor storage shall be one thousand
(1000) square feet.
         (2)    Storage areas shall not occupy any part of the street right-of-
way, any areas intended or designed for pedestrian use or required off-street
parking areas.
   4.   Certification. All applications for industrial uses must be accompanied
by a certification from a registered professional engineer in the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania that the proposed use can meet the performance standards of the
appropriate district. Further, the Zoning Officer may employ consultants to
evaluate the environmental effects with respect to performance standards.
   5.   Noise.
      A.   Noise shall be measured with a sound level meter having an A-
weighted filter constructed in accordance with specifications of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI). Measurements are to be made at any point
in residential or commercial districts as indicated in Table I following.
      B.   Impact noise shall be measured using the fast response of the sound
level meter. Impact noises are intermittent sounds such as from a punch press
or drop forge hammer. Measurements are to be made at any point in residential
or commercial districts as indicated in Table I.
      C.   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the permissible sound
levels in a residential district shall be reduced by 5 decibels for impact
noises.
      D.   The following sources of noise are exempt:
         (1)   Transportation vehicles not used in the ordinary cause of
business and not under the control of the owner, tenant, lessor.
         (2)   Occasionally used safety signals, warning devices, and emergency
pressure relief valves.
         (3)   Temporary construction activity between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   6.   The following Table I describes the maximum sound pressure level
permitted from any industrial source and measured in any adjacent residential
district or existing residential use or any commercial district lot. All
industrial uses shall be limited by the following standards:
TABLE I
Maximum sound pressure level in decibels - 0.002 dynes per square centimeter.
Octave band in cycles 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
Octave band in cycles 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
0 - 75                74               69
75 - 150              59               54
150 - 300             52               47
300 - 600             46               41
600 - 1,200           42               37
1200 - 2,400          39               34
2400 - 4,800          36               31
above - 4,800         33               28
 
For any noise of an impulsive or periodic character the permissible limits for
each octave band shall be reduced by five (5) decibels.
Sound levels shall be measured at the lot line with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the American Standards Association.
   7.   Vibration.
      A.   Vibration shall be measured at or beyond any adjacent lot line or
residential district line as indicated below and such measurements shall not
exceed the particle velocities so designated. The instrument used for these
measurements shall be a three component measuring system capable of
simultaneous measurement of vibration in three mutually perpendicular
directions.
      B.   The maximum vibration is given as particular velocity, which may be
measured directly with suitable instrumentation or computed on the basis of
displacement and frequency. When computed, the following formula shall be used:
         P.V.=   6.28 F x D
         P.V.=   Particle velocity, inches per second
         F =   Vibration frequency, cycles per second
         D =   Single amplitude displacement of the vibration, inches
      C.   Table I designates the applicable columns of Table II that apply on
or beyond adjacent lot lines within the zone, and on or beyond appropriate
district boundaries. Vibration shall not exceed the maximum permitted particle
velocities in Table II. Where more than one set of vibration levels apply, the
most restrictive shall govern. Readings may be made at points of maximum
vibration intensity.
TABLE I
 
Use             Adjacent Lot Line Commercial Dist. Boundaries Residential Dist.
                                                              Boundaries
Industrial Uses C                 B                           A
 
The maximum peak particle velocities that correspond to the above designations
are as follows:
TABLE II
MAXIMUM PEAK PARTICLE VELOCITY-IN/SEC
 
Vibration    A    B    C
Steady State 0.02 0.05 0.10
Impact       0.04 0.10 0.20
 
      D.   The maximum particle velocity shall be the maximum vector sum of
three mutually perpendicular components recorded simultaneously. (Particle
velocity in inches multiplied by the frequency in cycles per second.)
      E.   For purposes of this Chapter steady-state vibrations are vibrations,
which are continuous, or vibrations in discrete impulses more frequent than
sixty (60) per minute. Discrete impulses, which do not exceed sixty (60) per
minute, shall be considered impact vibrations.
      F.   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. all of the permissible
vibration levels indicated in the previous table for residential district
boundaries (Column A) shall be reduced to one-half of the indicated values.
   8.   Dust and Particulates.
      A.   The total emission rate of dust and particulate matter from all
vents, stacks, chimneys, flues or other opening or any process, operation, or
activity within the boundaries of any lot, shall not exceed the levels set
forth below. Emissions of dust and particulates shall be in accordance with the
State of Pennsylvania rules and regulations governing air contamination and air
pollution, and, in case of conflict, the most restrictive shall apply.
      B.   The emission rate of particulate matter in pounds per hour from any
single stack shall be determined by selecting a continuous 4 hour period which
will result in the highest average emission rate.
      C.   Particulate matter emission from materials or products subject to
becoming windborne shall be kept to a minimum by paving, oiling, wetting,
covering or other means, such as to render the surface wind resistant. Such
sources include vacant lots, unpaved roads, yards and storage piles of bulk
material such as coal, sand, cinders, slag, sulfur, etc.
      D.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses, the maximum emission rate
of dust and particulate matter from all stacks shall be five-tenths pounds
(0.5) per hour per acre of lot area.
   9.   Sulfur Oxides.
      A.   Emission of oxides of sulfur (as sulfur dioxide) from combustion and
other process shall be limited in accordance with the requirement of each
district. The oxides of sulfur may be computed from the sulfur analysis in the
fuel or from known test data of sulfur oxides emission.
      B.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses, the maximum emission rate
of oxides of sulfur from all stacks shall be five-hundreths (0.05) pounds per
hour per acre of lot area.
   10.   Smoke.
      A.   For the purpose of grading the density or equivalent opacity of
smoke, the Ringelmann Chart as published by the United States Bureau of Mines
shall be used. However, the Umbrascope readings of smoke may be used when
correlated with Ringelmann's Chart.
      B.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses, the emission of smoke
darker than Ringelmann No. 1 from any chimney, stack, vent, opening, or
combustion process is prohibited.
   11.   Odor.
      A.   Odor thresholds shall be measured in accordance with ASTM d1391-57
"Standard Method for Measurement of Odor in Atmospheres (Dilution Method)," or
its equivalent.
      B.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses odorous materials released
from any operation or activity shall not exceed the odor threshold
concentration at or beyond the property line measured at either ground level or
habitable level.
   12.   Toxic Matter.
      A.   The ambient air quality standards for the State of Pennsylvania
shall be the guide to the release of airborne toxic materials across lot lines.
Where toxic materials are not listed in the ambient air quality standards of
the State of Pennsylvania, the release of such materials shall be in accordance
with the tractional quantities permitted below, of those toxic materials
currently listed in the threshold limit values adopted by the American
Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. Unless otherwise stated, the
measurement of toxic matter shall be at ground level or habitable elevation,
and shall be the average of any 24 hour sampling period.
      B.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses the release of airborne
toxic matter shall not exceed one-thirtieth (1/30) of the threshold limit value
across lot lines.
   13.   Detonable Materials.
      A.   Activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of
products which decompose by detonation shall be in accordance with the
regulations of each industrial district.
      B.   Such materials shall include, but are not limited to, all primary
explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, PETN, and picric acid; propellants and
components thereof, such as dry nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydrides,
hydrazine and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks such as magnesium
powder, potassium nitrate; blasting explosives such as dynamite and
nitroglycerine; unstable oxidizing agents such as perchloric acid,
perchlorates, and hydrogen peroxide in concentration greater than thirty-five
(35) percent; and nuclear fuels, fissionable materials and products, and
reactor elements such as Uranium 235 and Plutonium 239.
      C.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses, the storage, utilization
or manufacture of materials or products which decompose by detonation is
limited to five (5) pounds.
   14.   Fire Hazards Solids.
      A.   Industrial Uses. For all industrial uses, the storage, utilization
or manufacture of solid materials which are active to intense burning shall be
conducted within spaces having fire resistive construction of no less than two
(2) hours and protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system.
   15.   Fire Hazard Liquids and Gases.
      A.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids or
gases which produce flammable or explosive vapors shall be permitted only in
accordance with this Section, exclusive of the storage of finished products in
original sealed containers (60 gallons or less), which shall be unrestricted.
      B.   The total storage capacity of flammable liquids and gases shall not
exceed those quantities permitted in the following Table for all industrial
uses.
TABLE OF STORAGE CAPACITY OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES
LIQUIDS                       GASES
Above Ground, Flash Point, °FAbove Ground
Less than 70 70° - 200°
5,000 gal    20,000 gal.      150,000 SCF*
LIQUIDS                       GASES
Below Ground, Flash Point, °FBelow Ground
Less than 70 70° - 200°
10,000 gal.  40,000 gal.      300,000 SCF*
 
*SCF - Standard Cubic Feet at 60°F. and 29.92 inches Hg.
   16.   Glare and Lighting Standards.
      A.   Glare. Any operation or activity producing glare shall be conducted
so that direct or indirect light from the source shall not cause illumination
in excess of five-tenths (0.5) footcandles when measured within a residential
district or at an adjoining residential use.
         (1)    Direct Glare. Direct glare is defined for the purpose of this
Chapter as illumination beyond the property lines caused by direct or
specularly reflected rays from incandescent, fluorescent or arc lighting, or
from such high temperature processes as welding or petroleum or metallurgical
refining. No such direct glare shall be permitted with the exceptions that
parking areas and walkways may be illuminated by luminaries meeting the
standards of subsection (16)(A)(2) below.
         (2)    Indirect Glare. Indirect glare is defined for the purpose of
this Chapter as illumination beyond the property lines caused by diffuse
reflection from a surface such as a wall or roof of a structure. Indirect glare
shall not exceed a maximum of zero point three-tenths (0.3) footcandles and an
average of one-tenth (0.1) footcandles. Deliberately induced sky-reflected
glare, such as by casting a beam upward for advertising purposes, is
prohibited.
      B.   Luminaries. All luminaries for parking areas, walkways, and similar
purposes shall be so hooded or shielded so that the maximum angle or the cone
of direct illumination shall be sixty (60) degrees drawn perpendicular to the
ground, with the exception that such angle may be increased to ninety (90)
degrees if the luminary is less than four (4) feet above the ground. No
luminary may be placed more than twenty-five (25) feet above the ground, and
the maximum illumination at ground level shall not exceed three (3) foot
candles.
   17.   Heat. For the purposes of this Chapter, heat is defined as thermal
energy of a radioactive, conductive, or convective nature. Heat emitted at any
or all points shall not at any time cause a temperature increase on any
adjacent property in excess of ten (10) degrees F.; whether such change be in
the air or in the ground, in a natural stream or lake, or in any structure on
such adjacent property.
   18.   Radioactive Radiation. No activities shall be permitted which emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point. The handling of radioactive materials,
the discharge of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of
radioactive wastes, shall be in conformance with the regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission as set forth in Title 10, Chapter One, Part 20 -
Standards for Protection Against Radiation, as amended; and all applicable
regulations of the State of Pennsylvania.
   19.   Liquid or Solid Waste. No discharge shall be permitted at any point
into any sewage disposal system, or watercourse, or lake, or into the ground,
except in accord with standards approved by the Department of Environmental
Protection or any other regulating department or agency including, but not
limited to, the South Annville Township Sewer Authority and any other inter-
municipal agreements, of any materials of such nature or temperature as can
contaminate any water supply or otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or
offensive elements. There shall be no accumulation of solid wastes conducive to
the breeding of rodents or insects.
   20.   Electromagnetic Radiation. It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause
to be operated, any planned or intentional source of electromagnetic radiation
for such purposes as communication, experimentation, entertainment,
broadcasting, heating, navigation, therapy, vehicle velocity measurement,
weather survey, aircraft detection, topographical survey, personal pleasure,
for any other use directly or indirectly associated with these purposes which
does not comply with the current regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission regarding such sources of electromagnetic radiation, except that for
all governmental communications facilities, governmental agencies and
government owned plants, the regulations of the Interdepartment Radio Advisor
Committee shall take precedence over the regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission, regarding such sources of electromagnetic radiation.
Further, said operation in compliance with the Federal Communications
Commission or the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee regulations shall be
unlawful if such radiation causes an abnormal degradation in performance of
other electromagnetic radiators or electromagnetic receptors of quality and
proper design because of proximity, primary field, blanketing, spurious re-
radiation, harmonic content, modulation or energy conducted by power or
telephone lines. The determination of "abnormal degradation in performance" and
"of quality and proper design" shall be made in accordance with good
engineering practices as defined in the latest principles and standards of the
American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Institute of Radio Engineers,
and the Electronic Industries Association. In case of any conflict between the
latest standards and principles of the above groups, the following precedence
in the interpretation of the standards and principles shall apply: 1) American
Institute of Electrical Engineers, 2) Institute of Radio Engineers, and 3)
Electronic Industries Association.
   21.   Emergency Plan of Access.
      A.   A written plan of emergency access must be provided by the owner in
the event of emergency conditions such as fire, assuming the worst condition.
All existing uses shall have twelve (12) months to comply with this
requirement.
      B.   The owner's plan of action for emergency access to the building
shall be submitted to the Township at the time of submission for a permit.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 6)
§ 1421.    Commercial Performance Standards.
   A.   Enforcement of commercial performance standards shall follow the
enforcement procedures of § 1420(4). Commercial uses shall be defined as those
uses regardless of location which are specified as permitted uses, uses by
special exception or conditional use in any of the commercial districts of this
Chapter including uses of a similar nature not specifically identified in this
Chapter but which would be classified as Commercial by the Township Zoning
Officer.
   B.   General Commercial Design Standards.
      (1)    Establishments furnishing carts or mobile baskets shall provide
definite areas on the site for the storage of said carts which shall be clearly
marked and designated for such storage.
      (2)    All multiple use commercial centers under single ownership shall
have only one free standing advertising sign. Additional flat wall signs shall
be allowed in accordance with the sign regulations of this Chapter.
      (3)    To the greatest extent possible commercial buildings shall be
designed to have fifty percent (50%) of the minimum required landscape area
contained between the street right-of-way line and the building face.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 7)
§ 1422. Adult Uses.
Where authorized by special exception, adult uses, including but not limited to
adult bookstore, adult movie theater, massage parlor, and adult live
entertainment use, shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Purposes. The regulations on adult uses are intended to serve the
following purposes, in addition to the overall objectives of this Chapter 27.
      (1)    To recognize the adverse secondary impacts of adult uses that
affect health, safety and general welfare concerns of the municipality. These
secondary impacts have been documented in research conducted across the nation.
These secondary impacts typically include, but are not limited to: increases in
criminal activity, increases in activities that increase the risk of
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, increases in activities that
increase the risk of transmission of other communicable diseases, increases in
blight, decreases in the stability of residential neighborhoods, and decreases
in property values for surrounding homes, and decreases in the marketability of
nearby commercial business space. The research conducted across the nation
concludes that adult use typically involve insufficient self-regulation to
control these secondary effects.
      (2)    To limit adult uses to locations where these secondary impacts can
be minimized, particularly as they affect residential neighborhoods.
      (3)    To not attempt to suppress any activities protected by the free
speech protections of the U.S. Constitution, but instead to control secondary
effects.
   B.   No adult use shall be located within: (i) 500 lineal feet of the lot
line of any library, public park, existing dwelling, primary or secondary
school, place of worship, day care center or child nursery.
   C.   No adult use shall be located within 1,000 lineal feet of any existing
adult use.
   D.   A 50 feet buffer yard shall be provided, regardless of zoning district,
along the side and rear lot lines.
   E.   No pornographic material, displays or words shall be placed in view of
persons who are not inside of the establishment. The building [shall] be
windowless or have an opaque covering over all windows or doors of any area in
which materials are displayed.
   F.   No adult use shall be used for any purpose that violates any Federal,
State or municipal law.
   G.   Signs shall comply with all requirements of Part 16 of this Chapter.
   H.   The adult use shall not include the sale or display of obscene
materials, as defined by State law, as may be amended by applicable court
decisions.
   I.   The adult use shall meet all of the following dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one (1) acre.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: sixty feet (60').
      (3)   Minimum side and rear yards: fifty feet (50').
      (4)   Minimum lot width: two hundred fifty feet (250') at the building
line.
      (5)   Maximum building height: thirty-five feet (35') except as provided
in Part 14 of this
Chapter 27.
   J.   For public health reasons, private or semi-private viewing booths of
any kind are prohibited. This specifically includes, but is not limited to,
booths for viewing adult movies or nude dancers.
   K.   Only lawful massages as defined by court decisions shall be performed
in a massage parlor.
   L.   All persons within any adult use shall wear non-transparent garments
that cover their genitals and the female areola, except within a permitted
lawful adult live entertainment use.
   M.   Any application for an adult use shall state the names and home
addresses of (i) all individuals intended to have more than a five percent (5%)
ownership in such use or in a corporation owning such use and (ii) an on-site
manager responsible to ensure compliance with this Chapter on a daily basis.
Such information shall be updated at the beginning of each year in writing to
the Zoning Officer.
   N.   The adult use shall not operate between the hours of 12 midnight and 7
a.m.
   O.   As specific conditions of approval under this Chapter, the applicant
shall prove compliance with the following State laws, as amended: the
Pennsylvania Liquor Code, Act 219 of 1990 (which pertains to sale or
consumption of alcohol between 2 am. and 8 am.), Act 207 of 1990 (which
pertains to obscenity) and Act 120 of 1996 (which pertains to adult-oriented
establishments and which limits, enclosed viewing booths among other matters).
   P.   No adult use may be changed to a different adult use without obtaining
a new special exception approval.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 6)
§ 1423. Forestry Activities.
In accordance with the requirements of §
603(f) of the MPC, as amended by Act 68 of 2000, forestry, including the
harvesting of timber, is permitted as of right in all zoning districts within
the Township subject to the provisions generally applicable to all uses in the
district in which such land is located. If in the future the General Assembly
amends the MPC to repeal §
603(f) or to remove the requirement that forestry be permitted in all zoning
districts in every municipality, this Section will be of no further force or
effect.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 7)
§ 1424. Obscenity.
Obscenity shall be prohibited in all zoning districts in the Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 7)
§ 1425. Neighborhood Greenway Development.
   1.   Purpose and Goals. It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors to
encourage innovation and to promote flexibility, economy, and ingenuity in
development consistent with the provisions of Article VI of the MPC, the
Comprehensive Plan, and the Open Space and Greenways Master Plan. The
application of alternative design standards and/or increases in the permissible
density of development is dependent on the extent to which a project achieves
the following design objectives and goals:
      A.   Encouraging growth in the most appropriate locations.
      B.   Encouraging appropriate residential densities and land use
intensities.
      C.   Preserving and enhancing natural and historic or scenic beauty.
      D.   Creating a distinct physical settlement connected by protected
greenway land to adjoining Annville Township, nearby schools and other
amenities.
      E.   Developing a settlement of modest size and scale that accommodates
and promotes pedestrian travel rather than motor vehicle trips.
      F.   Promoting design that results in residentially scaled buildings
fronting on, and aligned with, streets.
   2.   Eligibility. Within the R-1 and R-2 Districts, Neighborhood Greenway
Development is permitted by conditional use for subdivisions which create six
(6) or more lots either singularly or cumulatively after the effective date of
this Section, subject to compliance with the criteria in this Section.
   3.   Minimum Requirements for Development under the Neighborhood Greenwav
Development. Each Neighborhood Greenway Development shall meet all of the
following minimum requirements:
      A.   The Neighborhood Greenway Development tract shall not be less than
ten (10) acres in gross lot area.
      B.   The Neighborhood Greenway Development tract shall be developed
according to a single plan that depicts complete build-out of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract with common authority and responsibility. If more
than one (1) person has an interest in all or a portion of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract, all persons with interests in any portion of the
Neighborhood Greenway Development tract shall join as applicants and shall
present an agreement, in a form acceptable to the Township Solicitor,
guaranteeing that the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract as a whole shall
be developed in accordance with any approval granted under this Section as a
single Neighborhood Greenway Development with common authority and governing
documents.
      C.   All dwelling units and nonresidential structures shall be provided
with public water service and public sewer service.
      D.   The Neighborhood Greenway Development shall be provided with open
space in accordance with this Section.
      E.   The Neighborhood Greenway Development may be provided with a
neighborhood center.
      F.   No more that fifty percent (50%) of the Neighborhood Greenway
Development tract may be covered with impervious surface unless a greater
impervious surface coverage is permitted through the use of design incentives
set forth in subsection .19 below.
      G.   Conditional use approval is required before preliminary plan
submission.
   4.   Applicability of Standards. It is the intention of the Board of
Supervisors in accordance with § 605(3) of the MPC to encourage innovation and
to promote flexibility, economy, and ingenuity in development. To that end, the
Board of Supervisors may by conditional use approval authorize develop ment of
a Neighborhood Greenway Development under the standards set forth in this
Section if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board that the
proposed Neighborhood Greenway Development is in accordance with, and
substantially advances all of, the goals and design objectives in subsection .1
above. If the Board determines that the proposed Neighborhood Greenway
Development does not meet the goals and design objectives of subsection .1
above, the applicant shall be required to comply with all applicable
requirements of this Chapter and the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
[
Chapter 22] in the design and installation of the facility which is part of the
Neighborhood Greenway Development. If there is any dispute as to whether the
Neighborhood Greenway Development or any portion thereof meets the design
objectives of this Section, the applicant shall be required to comply with all
requirements of this Chapter and the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
[
Chapter 22].
   5.   Application Procedure. An applicant who desires to develop a
Neighborhood Greenway Development shall submit an application for conditional
use approval which shall include all of the following:
      A.   Site plan meeting all requirements of subsection .20 below.
      B.   Open space plan identifying all features required by subsec tion .6
below. The open space plan shall also include a written statement describing
the applicant’s proposal for future ownership and maintenance of the open
space.
      C.   Landscaping plan providing a complete proposal for the landscaping
and planting of the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract and identifying all
features required by subsection .6.G below.
      D.   Street lighting plan providing a complete proposal for the
installation of street lighting to serve the Neighborhood Greenway Development
tract.
      E.   Traffic impact study meeting all requirements of §
1419.1 of this Chapter.
      F.   Architectural guidelines for the Neighborhood Greenway Development
which shall include styles, proportions, massing, and detailing.
      G.   Statement identifying all design incentives under subsection .19
below which have been incorporated, and written support for each design
incentive. This statement must identify the specific design incentive provided,
must identify the reduction of the standard taken, and must support the
applicant’s claim that the Neighborhood Greenway Development as proposed
provides the identified design incentive.
      H.   Statement identifying all modifications of standards of this
Section, under subsection .21 below, and written support for each modification.
This statement must identify the specific modification requested and provide
support that the modification meets all require ments of subsections .1.A
through .1.F.
      I.   Required Application Fee.
   No application shall be considered complete without all of the above-listed
items. The Township shall not accept incomplete applica tions for conditional
use approval to use the Neighborhood Greenway Development.
   6.   Open Space. A minimum of thirty-five percent (35%) of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract shall be devoted to common open space. Through the
use of incentives offered in subsection .19 below, the amount of open space
maybe reduced. However, every Neighborhood Greenway Development shall be
designed to provide a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract as open space.
      A.   It is the express intent that this requirement for open space be
used to protect those valuable resources that are identified by the
comprehensive plan and open space and greenway master plan and further
addressed by the regulations contained within the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] regarding preservation of natural features, etc. Open space shall
be designed and arranged to achieve as many of the following objectives as
possible:
         (1)   Protection of important natural, historic, and cultural
resources.
         (2)   Preservation of scenic views from public roads and neighboring
residential properties.
         (3)   Provision of new and/or connection with existing trails,
greenways, linear parks, or open space on adjoining parcels.
         (4)   Provision of useable play or recreation areas, or equipment,
that are conveniently accessible to residents throughout the Neighborhood
Greenway Development.
         (5)   Provision of public space as the focal point of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development when coordinated with greens and public commons which are
dispersed throughout the Neighborhood Greenway Development.
         (6)   Interconnection of areas of proposed open space within the
Neighborhood Greenway Development and interconnection of open space within the
proposed Neighborhood Greenway Development with existing or planned open space
or recreational facilities on lands adjoining the Neighborhood Greenway
Development tract.
      B.   The applicant shall demonstrate the specific measures employed to
achieve the objectives in subsection .6.A above through the provision of an
open space plan depicting all proposed elements of the common open space. Each
open space plan shall identify:
         (1)   The location and size of proposed commons and/or greens.
         (2)   Connections among proposed areas of open space on the
Neighborhood Greenway Development tract and connections of proposed areas of
open space on the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract with elements of open
space on adjoining tracts if such exists or is proposed.
         (3)   Location and size of trails, greenways or other pedes trian
linkages, including the surface proposed.
      C.   In all Neighborhood Greenway Developments, regardless of the total
amount of open space provided and regardless of the design incentives utilized,
the applicant shall provide open space in the amount of at least thirty percent
(30%) of the area of the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract. Not less than
fifty percent (50%) of the required open space shall meet all of the criteria
set forth in subsection .6.C(1) through (3) below. The remaining portion of the
required open space may contain floodplains, wetlands, steep slopes, and
similar features.
         (1)   The land shall not contain floodplains, wetlands, steep slopes
or other natural features which would render the land unbuildable under
applicable ordinances and regulations. For the purposes of this subparagraph,
unbuildable land is land upon which walking trails, fitness stations, or other
recreational improve ments and amenities cannot be constructed.
         (2)   The land shall not contain stormwater management facilities.
         (3)   The land shall be configured to serve residents ade quately and
conveniently. Strips of land running around the perimeter of the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract or separating proposed lots within the Neighborhood
Greenway Develop ment less than twenty-five feet (25') in any dimension shall
not be counted as open space to meet the required minimum unless such land is
improved with walking trails, fitness stations, or other recreational
improvements and amenities acceptable to the Board of Supervisors or unless
such land is, in the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, integrated and
integral to the overall open space design.
      D.   Each Neighborhood Greenway Development containing fifty (50) or more
dwelling units shall be provided with at least one (1) green containing not
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet. Other greens and commons of not
less than one thousand (1,000) square feet in area shall be dispersed
throughout the Neighborhood Greenway Develop ment. A green or common which
meets the requirements of subsection .6.C(1) through (3) above may be included
within the required minimum open space.
      E.   The design of a hard (paved) or soft (mulched) surfaced pedestrian
and bicycle network system linking development within the Neighborhood Greenway
Development shall be provided to connect various commons and greens depicted on
the open space plan. Access to all such areas shall be provided from public
streets. Where necessary, easements shall be provided to accommodate pedestrian
access as well as access for maintenance equipment and bicycles.
      F.   Landscaping. A vital component of the required open space plan shall
be the design and provision of appropriate landscaping which shall include a
combination of types of shrubs, trees (both evergreen and deciduous), and
groundcovers, with emphasis on native plant species and low maintenance
varieties. To ensure the proper placement of suitable materials, the applicant
shall provide a landscaping plan, prepared by a registered landscape architect,
which specifies the type and size of proposed vegetation, as well as
identifying the location of existing vegetation to be retained. The landscaping
plan shall include all portions of the proposed open space and shall identify
all lighting proposed for all portions of the open space including, but not
limited to, common area and pathways. The landscaping plan shall also include
all areas outside of the open space which are required to be landscaped (such
as parking areas, dumpster locations, etc.), the location of proposed street
plantings and tree lawns, and the type and location of street trees to be
provided.
         (1)   The applicant shall provide a maintenance guarantee to ensure
the health and vitality of all plant material for a period of eighteen (18)
months from planting. Any of the landscaping which dies or is removed within
this time frame shall be replaced with vegetation of the same size and species.
The applicant shall also be responsible to assure the proper care and
maintenance of all plant material within the open space for the duration of
this eighteen (18) months and until such time as the open space is transferred
a property owners association or other entity as authorized by this Section.
      G.   The applicant shall arrange for the ownership, administration, and
maintenance of open space in accordance with one or more of the following:
         (1)   The Township may in its sole discretion accept dedication of
open spaces or any interest therein for public use and mainte nance with no
consideration to be paid by the Township. Unless waived by the Board of
Supervisors at time of approval, the Township shall have the option to accept
all or any portion of the open space at any time within ten (10) years of the
recording of the final subdivision and/or land development plan for the
development. The final plan shall contain a note, in language acceptable to the
Township Solicitor, that the common open space is irrevocably dedicated to the
Township for a period of ten (10) years from the date of the recording of the
final plan. Said note shall also state that the Township shall have no duty to
maintain or improve the dedicated open space unless and until it has been
accepted by formal action of the Board of Supervisors.
         (2)   The applicant may establish an automatic-membership property
owners association made up of the owners of property in the Neighborhood
Greenway Development as a nonprofit corporation for the purpose of owning,
administering, and maintaining open space; provided, however, the association
shall not be dissolved nor shall it dispose of the open space by sale or
otherwise (except to an organization conceived and established to own,
administer, and maintain common open space approved by the Board of Supervi
sors) without first offering the open space for dedication to the Township. The
property owners association shall be empowered to levy and collect assessments
from the property owners of the Neighborhood Greenway Development to cover
replacements, working capital, operating expenses, insurance against casualty
and liability, and contingencies.
         (3)   The applicant may establish a deed or deeds of trust, approved
by the Board of Supervisors, for the purpose of owning, administering, and
maintaining open space, with the trustee empowered to levy and collect
assessments from the property owners of the Neighborhood Greenway Development
to cover replacements, working capital, operating expenses, insurance against
casualty and liability, and contingencies.
         (4)   With permission of the Township and with appropriate deed
restrictions in favor of the Township and in language acceptable to the
Township Solicitor, the applicant may transfer the fee simple title in the open
space or a portion thereof to a private, nonprofit organization among whose
purposes is the conservation of open space land and/or natural resources,
provided that:
            (a)   The organization is acceptable to the Township and is a bona
fide conservation organization with a perpetual existence.
            (b)   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper
retransfer or reverter in the event that the organiza tion becomes unable to
continue to carry out its functions.
            (c)   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the Township is entered
into by the applicant, organization, and Township.
      H.   If the Township does not accept dedication of the open space, the
applicant shall grant to the Township, in a form acceptable to the Township
Solicitor, all of the rights to maintain common open space described in Article
VII of the MPC.
   7.   Street Lighting. The applicant shall provide street lights within the
Neighborhood Greenway Development in a manner consistent with the architectural
guidelines and acceptable to the Township and the applicable energy provider.
Lighting shall be used to increase the safety of pedestri ans as well as
vehicles while contributing to the character of the overall Neighborhood
Greenway Development.
   8.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted within a Neighborhood
Greenway Development in accordance with types of uses, density and dimensional
criteria set forth in this subsection and subsection .9 below:
      A.   Single-family dwellings in the R-I, Low Density Residential District
and the R-2, Medium Density Residential District.
      B.   Two-family dwelling buildings, townhouses, multi-family dwelling and
apartment buildings in the R-2 Medium Density Residential District. [Ord. 9-13-
23, § 3]
      C.   Neighborhood facilities within a Neighborhood Center.
      D.   Within a neighborhood center, retail sales and personal service
establishments including, but not limited to, news stand, coffee shop,
apothecary, restaurant, hair and/or nail salons, gift shop, bakery, specialty
food store, drycleaner (drop-off only), bike sales/rental, copy center, barber
shop or another use which the Board of Supervisors determines during the
conditional use approval process is substantially similar to the listed uses.
Such retail sales and personal services shall not exceed fifty (50%) of the
area of the neighborhood center.
      E.   Public uses including greenways, trails, commons, greens and
municipal and essential community uses.
      F.   Lot Size Requirements.
 
Use                             Minimum Maximum
Permitted Residential Dwellings N/A     N/A
Neighborhood Center             N/A     25,000 sq. ft. lot
Public Use Buildings/Structures N/A     20,000 sq. ft. lot
 
   9.   Requirements for Residential Development. The maximum density for
dwelling units within a Neighborhood Greenway Development shall be based upon
the gross lot area of the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract. The density
with respect to each dwelling type shall be calculated by using the gross
acreage of the portion of the property dedicated to that dwelling type. The
densities for Neighborhood Greenway Development in the R-1 Low Density
Residential District and R-2 Medium Density Residential District shall be as
set forth below:
 
Underlying District  Base Density               Maximum Density (with
                                                Design Incentives)
R-1 Low Density      Three (3) dwelling units   Three and five-tenths (3.5)
Residential District per gross acre             dwelling units per gross
                                                acre
                     For single-family detached For single-family detached
                     dwellings: Four (4)        dwellings: Four and five-
                     dwelling units per gross   tenths (4.5) dwelling units
R-2 Medium Density   acre                       per gross acre
Residential District For all other dwelling     For all other dwelling
                     types: Six (6) dwelling    units: Eight and five-
                     units per gross acre       tenths (8.5) dwelling units
                                                per gross acre
 
      A.   All dwelling units shall be situated so as to retain a view of some
portion of the open space and shall be located within eight hundred feet (800')
of a commons, green, or trail.
      B.   All lots shall maintain minimum front, rear, and side yard setbacks
of six feet (6'), except that no side yard setback is required for attached or
semiattached dwelling units.
      C.   No dwelling units within a Neighborhood Greenway Development shall
have direct access to existing Township or state streets surrounding the
Neighborhood Greenway Development tract. All access shall be from an internal
street system designed to service the Neighborhood Greenway Development. [Ord.
9-13-23, § 4]
   10.   Neighborhood Centers. Each Neighborhood Greenway Development may
include one (1) neighborhood center. Each neighborhood center shall comply with
the following:
      A.   Uses are limited to those that residents are likely to need on a
daily or regular basis and shall not include any fuel dispensing or drive-
through facilities.
      B.   The overall size and type of each use within the neighborhood center
is restricted to prevent the establishment of intensive commercial-type
facilities that exceed the local orientation.
      C.   Each use other than a neighborhood facility within a neighbor hood
center shall be designed to provide basic convenience commercial goods and
services to existing and future nearby residences.
      D.   All neighborhood centers shall be provided with convenient
pedestrian access. Any necessary parking facilities shall be located to the
side or rear of any structure.
      E.   Where a neighborhood center adjoins residentially zoned lands or
existing residential use, the center’s side and rear yards shall, regardless of
the other uses in those yards, contain landscaping that adequately buffers and
screens the adjoining residential properties. The type of landscaping shall be
consistent with that in the open space component of the overall development and
be arranged so as to block the ground level view between grade and a height of
six feet (6'). Such landscape screens must achieve this visual blockage within
two (2) years of installation.
      F.   The adaptive use of historical structures on the Neighborhood
Greenway Development tract is a preferred option for the siting of a
neighborhood center. However, when new construction must be undertaken, the
design of such structure(s) shall not detract from the community character of
the Neighborhood Greenway Development and the surrounding area.
      G.   The applicant may initially use the neighborhood center as a sales
office. If the applicant uses the neighborhood center as a sales office, the
applicant shall insure that not less than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area
of the neighborhood center shall be converted to neighborhood facilities and/or
retail sales and personal service establishments authorized in subsection .8
above upon the sale of thirty percent (30%) of the dwelling units. The
applicant shall further insure that not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of
the floor area of the neighborhood center shall be converted to neighborhood
facilities and/or retail sales and personal service establishments authorized
upon the sale of seventy-five percent (75%) of the dwelling units in the
Neighborhood Greenway Development.
   11.   Required Parking. All uses within the Neighborhood Greenway
Development shall be provided parking in accordance with subsection.
      A.   On-street parking spaces along the front property line shall count
toward the minimum number of parking spaces required for the use on that lot
(except where there are driveway curb cuts).
      B.   The amount of off-street parking required for all dwelling units and
public uses shall be in accordance with Part 15 of this Chapter.
      C.   The amount of parking for all retail sales and personal service
establishments in neighborhood centers shall be one (1) parking space for each
three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area. The parking shall be
provided either on the neighborhood center lot or in designated on-street
parking areas within five hundred feet (500') of the neighborhood center
buildings or by a combination thereof.
      D.   All nonresidential uses shall adequately accommodate both handicap
parking and bicycle parking.
   12.   Architectural Guidelines. It is not the intent of the Board of
Supervisors to dictate architectural styles. However, a set of standards shall
be chosen by the applicant and adhered to consistently throughout the
development. Standards selected shall enhance the design objectives and goals
as specified by subsection .1. Architectural guidelines shall be established
and approved as a condition of the conditional use approval. The applicant
shall submit a set of guidelines which shall include styles, proportions,
massing, and detailing. To the extent necessary on each site, these features
shall be compatible with the design of historical resources on and adjacent to
the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract. The architec tural guidelines
shall be recorded with or be part of documentation imposing covenants and
conditions upon the Neighborhood Greenway Development.
   13.   Overall Development Form. In meeting the design objectives and goals
specified by subsection .1, new construction shall, to the greatest extent
possible, be sited so as to preserve natural vistas and existing resources of
the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract as delineated by the required site
plan. Components of the Neighborhood Greenway Development shall be designed in
a pattern of blocks and interconnecting streets, defined by buildings, street
furniture, landscaping, sidewalks, on-street parking, and public space.
   14.   Streets. Streets within the Neighborhood Greenway Development shall
provide safe and convenient access and circulation patterns and shall meet the
design standards of this subsection.
      A.   Streets shall be designed to establish a hierarchy which shall:
         (1)   Avoid alteration of cultural or historical resources as
identified by the Comprehensive Plan and Open Space and Greenway Master Plan.
         (2)   Minimize alteration of natural resources as identified by the
Comprehensive Plan and Open Space and Greenway Master Plan.
         (3)   Provide a view to prominent natural vistas.
         (4)   Promote pedestrian movement and calm traffic speeds as
necessary.
         (5)   Provide for on-street parking where applicable.
         (6)   Be provided with sidewalks on both sides.
         (7)   Accommodate nonmotorized traffic.
      B.   Street patterns shall form a network, with variations as needed for
topographic, environmental, and other design considerations. Proposed streets
within the Neighborhood Greenway Development designed as collector streets
shall have a minimum centerline turning radius of one hundred fifty feet
(150'). All other streets within the Neighbor hood Greenway Development shall
be designed with a minimum centerline turning radius of eighty feet (80'). All
intersections of streets and all intersections of access drives with streets
shall maintain a clear sight triangle. The minimum clear sight triangle side
length shall be seventy-five feet (75'). All intersections of streets with
existing arterial streets shall have a minimum clear sight triangle side length
of one hundred feet (100').
      C.   Street width and design standards shall be as set forth in the table
below:
 
Street Type # Travel Lanes Parking Sidewalks Cartway Width R-O-W Width Curb
Collector*  2              No      Yes       28 ft.        50 ft.      Yes
N           2              No      Yes       20 ft.        50 ft.      Yes
N-1         2              1-side  Yes       28 ft.        50 ft.      Yes
N-2         2              2-sides Yes       32 ft.        50 ft.      Yes
N:   Neighborhood Street with neither homes nor parking on either side of the
street
N-1:   Neighborhood Street with homes and parking on just one side of the
street; the parking must be on the same side of the street as the homes
N-2:   Neighborhood Street with homes and parking on both sides of the street
*For purposes of this Section, the following streets are considered collectors:
Bachman Road from Royal Road to the northern Township boundary
Louser Road from South White Oak Street (State Route 934) to Mount Pleasant
Road
Mount Pleasant Road from Louser Road to the northern Township boundary
South White Oak Street (State Route 934) from Royal Road to the northern
Township boundary
Spruce Street from Royal Road to the northern Township boundary
      D.   Streets serving townhouses where the separation distance between
driveways serving individual dwelling units is less than ten feet (10') shall
not be offered for dedication to the Township and remain as private streets.
All private streets shall conform to the following requirements:
         1.   Private streets shall meet all the design standards for public
streets as required by this Chapter.
         2.   Applications that propose a private street shall include an
agreement, in a recordable form acceptable to the Township, which shall be
recorded with the Recorder of Deeds as part of the final plan. This agreement
shall establish the conditions under which the street will be constructed and
maintained and shall stipulate:
            a.   That the street shall be constructed and maintained to conform
to the provisions of this Chapter.
            b.   The method of assessing maintenance and repair costs.
            c.   An express statement that the street has been designed in a
manner that requires the street to remain private and that the Township has no
obligation to and will not accept dedication. [Ord. 9-13-23, § 5]
   15.   Driveways/Garages for Residential Uses.
      A.   Setbacks. Driveways shall not be located within five feet (5') of a
fire hydrant and shall be setback at least two feet (2') from any side lot
line, unless a common or joint driveway location is proposed. Driveways shall
not connect with a public street within twenty feet (20') from the right-of-way
lines of any intersection street. Garages shall be set back a minimum of
twenty-four feet (24') from the property-side edge of the sidewalk.
      B.   Length. A minimum driveway length of twenty-four feet (24') from the
sidewalk edge to garage door shall apply to driveways which provide access to
the front of dwelling units from streets where sidewalks exist or are proposed.
   16.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks are to be provided on both sides of all streets
within the Neighborhood Greenway Development as well as along existing streets
connecting the Neighborhood Greenway Development to existing or future
development adjacent to the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract.
      A.   Sidewalks shall be no less than four feet (4') wide in residential
areas and no less than five feet (5') wide in areas providing access to
neighborhood facilities within the Neighborhood Greenway Development or
commercial areas adjacent to the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract.
      B.   Sidewalks shall be separated from street curbs by a planting strip
or tree lawns not less than three feet (3') wide.
   17.   Transit Facilities. If the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract is
located on an existing or proposed collector street which is on an existing or
proposed County of Lebanon Transit Authority (COLT) bus route, a transit
shelter and bench shall be provided. A bus pullout lane shall also be provided
to accommodate the safe boarding of passengers and smooth transition of
traffic. Where the Neighborhood Greenway Development has been designed to
provide one (1) or more through street connections, the provision of multiple
transit sites may be warranted. If COLT notifies the Township that it will
provide service within the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract prior to
approval of a final subdivision or land development plan, the applicant shall
provide a transit site to serve the neighborhood center or, if more than one
(1) neighborhood center building is constructed, to serve the Neighborhood
Greenway Development center building selected by COLT or the Board of
Supervisors.
   18.   Shade Trees and Street Plantings. Shade trees shall be provided and
installed in accordance with the required landscaping plan. At a minimum, they
shall be located along each side of all existing or proposed public or private
streets.
      A.   New street trees shall be deciduous shade trees with a caliper of
two and five-tenth (2.5) to three (3) inches measured at chest height.
      B.   Street trees shall be spaced at intervals no greater than forty feet
(40') along both sides of each street, including arterial roads, excluding rear
access lanes and alleys.
      C.   Selected species shall:
         (1)   Cast moderate to dense shade in summer.
         (2)   Have a typical life span of more than sixty (60) years.
         (3)   Mature to a height of at least fifty feet (50').
         (4)   Be tolerant of pollution and direct or reflected heat.
         (5)   Require little maintenance by being mechanically strong (not
brittle) and insect and disease resistant.
         (6)   Be able to survive two years with no irrigation after
establishment.
         (7)   Be of native origin, provided they meet the above criteria.
      D.   Existing healthy and mature street trees may be counted toward the
street tree planting requirement.
      E.   Street plantings may be used to complement the street tree and
landscaping requirements within public areas not included within the open
space. If permanent containers are used to accommodate such plantings, they
shall contain vegetation which is hardy in all seasons or shall be replanted
according to the change in seasons. The perpetual care and maintenance of such
plantings shall be the responsibility of the entity responsible for the open
space.
   19.   Design Incentives. Designs which incorporate one or more of the
following elements shall qualify for reductions in the percentage of open space
required, or an increase in the permitted density of a Neighborhood Greenway
Development, or other modification of the design standards as specified herein.
In no event shall density exceed the maximum density with design incentives set
forth in subsection .9.
      A.   Provision of improvements to active recreational areas such as
equipment, fields, spectator facilities, or jogging/stretching/fit ness
stations. Each type of such amenity provided shall qualify for consideration of
a decrease in the required open space by one percent (1%), with the total
reduction of open space not to exceed five percent (5%); or, an increase in the
maximum density of one-tenth (0.1) additional dwelling unit per acre, with a
total increase in the maximum density not to exceed one-half (1/2) an
additional dwelling unit per acre. To qualify for the open space reduction or
increase in maximum density, but not both per type of amenity, the location and
extent of each type of amenity shall be acceptable to the Township.
      B.   Provision of improvements to passive recreational areas such as
fountains, benches, trail surfacing, or educational signage related to the
presence of unique species of plants or animals or the background of historical
resources on the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract. Each type of such
amenity provided shall qualify for consideration of a decrease in the required
open space by one percent (1%), with the total reduction of open space not to
exceed five percent (5%) or an increase in the maximum density of one-tenth
(0.1) additional dwelling unit per acre, with a total increase in the maximum
density not to exceed one-half (1/2) an additional dwelling unit per acre for
the open space reduction or increase in maximum density, but not both per type
of amenity, the location and extent of each type of amenity shall be acceptable
to the Township. To qualify for the reduction, the location and extent of each
type of amenity shall be acceptable to the Township.
      C.   Provision of rear access to properties with the use of alleys.
Subdivisions served in whole or in part with alleys shall qualify for
consideration of a decrease in the required open space or an increase in the
maximum density as follows:
 
Portion of Total Number of Open Space Reduction Density Increase
Lots in Subdivision Served
At least one-quarter       2.5%                 .15 additional dwelling unit
                                                per acre
At least half              5%                   .50 additional dwelling unit
                                                per acre
At least three-quarters    7%                   .75 additional dwelling unit
                                                per acre
[Ord. 9-13-23, § 6]
   20.   Site Plan Requirements and Effect of Site Plan Approval.
      A.   Each applicant under this Section shall present a site plan of the
Neighborhood Greenway Development with the application for a conditional use.
The site plan shall at a minimum contain:
         (1)   The project name or identifying title.
         (2)   The name and address of the landowner of the tract, the
applicant, and the firm that prepared the plan.
         (3)   The file or project number assigned by the firm that prepared
the plan, the plan date, and the dates of all plan revisions.
         (4)   A north arrow, a graphic scale, and a written scale.
         (5)   The entire tract boundary with bearings and distances, and
identification of all corner markers.
         (6)   A location map, for the purpose of locating the site to be
subdivided or developed, at a minimum scale of two thousand feet (2,000') to
the inch, showing the relation of the tract to adjoining property and to all
streets, municipal boundaries, and streams existing within one thousand feet
(1,000') of any part of the property proposed to be developed.
         (7)   The plotting of all existing adjacent land uses and lot lines
within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed development including the
location of all public and private streets, drives or lanes, railroads,
historic sites, and other significant natural or man-made features.
         (8)   The names of all immediately adjacent landowners and the names
and plan book numbers of all previously recorded plans for adjacent projects.
         (9)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet (2') for land with
average natural slope of twelve percent (12%) or less, and at vertical
intervals of five feet (5') for more steeply sloping land; location of bench
mark and datum used.
         (10)   The delineation of all those areas which have been identified
as being subject to the one hundred (100) year flood in accordance with Part 11
of this Chapter.
         (11)   The delineation of all soil types as indicated by the most
recent U.S.D.A.- N.R.C.S. Soil Survey of Lebanon County.
         (12)   The plotting of all existing landmarks within the proposed
development including the location of all existing streets, buildings,
easements, rights-of-way, sanitary sewers, water mains, storm drainage
structures, and watercourses.
         (13)   A list of site data including, but not limited to, the
following:
            (a)   Total acreage of the tract.
            (b)   Zoning district.
            (c)   Proposed use of the land.
            (d)   Proposed gross area of the development.
            (e)   Proposed gross residential density.
            (f)   Proposed number of dwelling units.
            (g)   Proposed number of lots.
            (h)   Acreage of all street rights-of-way proposed for dedication.
            (i)   Acreage and percentage of common open space.
            (j)   Acreage to be sold to individual owners.
            (k)   Acreage to be retained by landowner.
            (l)   Acreage of any commercial, public or semi-public use areas.
            (m)   Proposed number of parking spaces.
            (n)   Any proposed design incentive, including the provision under
which the incentive is authorized, the improvement proposed to qualify for the
incentive, the increase in density, the change in the mix of dwelling types,
the decrease in open space, the increase in impervious coverage or the decrease
in landscaping claimed.
         (14)   The proposed location and dimensions of all streets, access
drives, parking compounds, sidewalks, bikeways, and curbing.
         (15)   The proposed location of all lot lines with approximate
dimensions.
         (16)   The approximate size of all lots in square feet or acreage.
         (17)   The proposed location and configuration of all buildings.
         (18)   The proposed location, size, and use of all common open space
areas, structures, and recreation facilities.
         (19)   Proposed landscaping, buffering, screening, walls, and fences.
         (20)   A proposed phasing plan of the development.
         (21)   A descriptive narrative of the proposal’s impact on each of the
following resources, and the specific measures undertaken or which will be
undertaken to incorporate and protect such features in accordance with the
objectives and goals identified by subsection .1. The applicant shall take
appropriate steps to conserve these resources and shall identify what efforts
have been made to mitigate necessary impacts to these resources. Features
depicted on the plan shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
            (a)   Existing vegetation and woodlands.
            (b)   Natural habitats.
            (c)   Slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%).
            (d)   Ponds, lakes, streams, and rivers.
            (e)   Wetlands.
            (f)   Ridgelines.
            (g)   All areas identified as being subject to the one hundred
(100) year flood in accordance with Part 11 of this Chapter.
            (h)   Surface drainage characteristics.
            (i)   All cultural, historical, and natural features on and
adjacent to the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract.
      B.   The Board of Supervisors in approving conditional use applications
shall make compliance with the site plan and any revisions thereto required by
the Board of Supervisors a part of the approval. The applicant shall develop
the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract in the manner set forth on the site
plan and any required revisions thereto unless a change to the site plan is
authorized in accordance with paragraphs .C or .D below. This procedure for
revisions to the site plan shall supersede the provisions for changes to the
site plan set forth in §
1104.4 of this Chapter.
      C.   An applicant may make minor revisions to the site plan as may be
necessary to accommodate fully engineered stormwater management facilities,
public sewer facilities, public water facilities, flood plains, and changes to
street design as may be required by the Pennsyl vania Department of
Transportation as part of a highway occupancy permit. The Board of Supervisors
during the subdivision and land development process shall determine whether the
applicant’s proposed changes to the approved site plan constitute minor
revisions necessary to accommodate fully engineered stormwater management
facilities, public sewer facilities, public water facilities, floodplains, and
changes to street design as may be required by the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation as part of a highway occupancy permit.
      D.   An applicant who desires to make a change to an approved site plan
which the Board of Supervisors determines does not constitute a minor revision
authorized by paragraph .C above shall apply for and obtain an additional
conditional use approval.
         (1)   Any applicant who proposes a change to an approved site plan
which shall not alter any of the items set forth in subpara graph (2) below
shall demonstrate during the additional conditional use approval process that
the site plan for the proposed Neighbor hood Greenway Development as revised by
the applicant continues to meet all requirements of this Section.
         (2)   Any applicant who proposes a change to an approved site plan
which shall alter any of the following items shall demonstrate during the
additional conditional use process that the site plan for the proposed
Neighborhood Greenway Development continues as revised by the applicant to meet
all requirements of this Section and shall also demonstrate that the proposed
modification to the approved site plan meets the requirements of subparagraph
(3) below:
            (a)   Increase in the number of dwelling units or decrease in the
number of dwelling units in excess of ten percent (10%).
            (b)   Change in the amount of nonresidential building area or land
area to be devoted to nonresidential uses.
            (c)   Change in the amount or location of open space areas.
            (d)   Change in the minimum lot sizes for the residential
dwellings.
            (e)   Change in any improvement proposed to qualify for a design
incentive authorized by subsection .19.
         (3)   An applicant who desires to make a revision to a site plan which
affects any of the criteria in subsection .20.D(2) above shall demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors during the additional conditional
use approval process that such change will:
            (a)   Generally enhance the development plan, or in any case not
have an adverse impact on its physical, visual or spatial characteristics.
            (b)   Generally enhance the streetscape and neighborhood, or in any
case not have an adverse impact on the streetscape and neighborhood.
            (c)   Not result in configurations of lots or street systems which
shall be impractical or detract from the appearance of the proposed
Neighborhood Greenway Development.
            (d)   Not result in any danger to the public health, safety or
welfare by making access to the dwellings by emergency vehicles more difficult,
by depriving adjoining properties of adequate light and air or by violating the
other purposes for which zoning ordinances are to be enacted under § 604(1) of
the MPC.
            (e)   Allow for equal or better results than the origi nally
approved site plan and represent the minimum modifica tion necessary.
   21.   Modification of Standards. The Board of Supervisors may, by
conditional use approval, permit the modification of the design standards of
this Section in order to encourage the use of innovative design. An applicant
desiring to obtain such conditional use approval shall, when making application
for conditional use approval for a Neighborhood Greenway Development using the
neighborhood design option, also make application for conditional use approval
under this subsection. The Board of Supervisors shall consider both conditional
use approval requests simultaneously. Any conditional use to permit a
modification of the design standards shall be subject to the following
standards:
      A.   Such modifications of design standards better serve the intended
purposes and goals of the Neighborhood Greenway Development option as expressed
in subsection .1.
      B.   Such modifications of design standards would not result in adverse
impact to adjoining properties, nor future inhabitants within the Neighborhood
Greenway Development.
      C.   Such modifications will not result in an increase in residen tial
densities permitted for the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract.
      D.   Such modifications will not result in a decrease in open space below
that required in subsection .6 for the Neighborhood Greenway Development tract.
      E.   The extent of modification provides the minimum amount of relief
necessary to ensure compliance with the preceding criteria in this Section.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 6; as amended by Ord. 9-
13-23, 9/13/2023)
§ 1426. Residential Subdivisions and Land Developments of Six or More Lots or
Dwelling Units.
   1.   Approval Required. Any person desiring to subdivide a lot in existence
on the effective date of this Section, either initially or cumulatively, into
six (6) or more residential lots or who desires to initially or cumulatively
create six (6) or more dwelling units shall obtain conditional use approval
under this Section.
   2.   Application Requirements. Any application for a conditional use under
this Section shall submit documentation and plans meeting all requirements of §
1425.20.A and shall also submit a landscaping plan providing a complete
proposal for the landscaping and planting of the development and identifying
all features required by §
1425.6.F above and a street lighting plan.
   3.   Greenways. Greenways are to be provided as identified on the South
Annville Township Open Space and Greenways Master Plan, in accordance with the
criteria set forth in §
1425.6.C(1) through (3) above, and to insure connection with greenway elements
on adjoining tracts where they exist or are planned.
   4.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks are to be provided on both sides of all streets
within the development as well as along existing streets connecting the
development to existing or future development adjacent to the development site.
      A.   Sidewalks shall be no less than four feet (4') wide in residential
areas and no less than five feet (5') wide in areas providing access to
neighborhood facilities within the development or commercial areas adjacent to
the development.
      B.   Sidewalks shall be separated from street curbs by a planting strip
or tree lawns not less than three feet (3') wide.
   5.   Transit Facilities. If the development site is located on an existing
or proposed collector street which is on an existing or proposed County of
Lebanon Transit Authority (COLT) bus route, a transit shelter and bench shall
be provided. A bus pullout lane shall also be provided to accommodate the safe
boarding of passengers and smooth transition of traffic. Where the development
has been designed to provide one or more through street connections, the
provision of multiple transit sites may be warranted. If COLT notifies the
Township that it will provide service within the develop ment prior to approval
of a final subdivision or land development plan, the applicant shall provide a
transit site to serve the neighborhood center.
   6.   Shade Trees and Street Plantings. Shade trees shall be provided and
installed in accordance with the required landscaping plan. At a minimum, they
shall be located along each side of all existing or proposed public or private
streets.
      A.   New street trees shall be deciduous shade trees with a caliper of
two and five-tenth (2.5) to three (3) inches measured at chest height.
      B.   Street trees shall be spaced at intervals no greater than forty feet
(40') along both sides of each street, including arterial roads, excluding rear
access lanes and alleys.
      C.   Selected species shall:
         (1)   Cast moderate to dense shade in summer.
         (2)   Have a typical life span of more than sixty (60) years.
         (3)   Mature to a height of at least fifty feet (50').
         (4)   Be tolerant of pollution and direct or reflected heat.
         (5)   Require little maintenance by being mechanically strong (not
brittle) and insect and disease resistant.
         (6)   Be able to survive two (2) years with no irrigation after
establishment.
         (7)   Be of native origin, provided they meet the above criteria.
      D.   Existing healthy and mature street trees may be counted toward the
street tree planting requirement.
      E.   Street plantings may be used to complement the street tree and
landscaping requirements within public areas not included within the open
space. If permanent containers are used to accommodate such plantings, they
shall contain vegetation which is hardy in all seasons or shall be replanted
according to the change in seasons. The perpetual care and maintenance of such
plantings shall be the responsibility of the entity responsible for the open
space.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 61406, 6/14/2006, § 6)
§ 1427. Oil and Gas Operations.
It is the intent of the Township to comply with Chapter 33, Local Ordinances
Relating to Oil and Gas Operations, of Title 58, Oil and Gas, of the
Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, as added by Act 13 of 2012. Oil and gas
operations, as defined in 58 Pa.C.S. § 3301, shall be permitted within the
Township to the extent of and in the manner required by 58 Pa.C.S. § 3304. All
provisions of this Chapter shall apply to oil and gas operations to the maximum
extent allowed by Chapter 33 of Title 58.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as added by Ord. 5-9-2012, 5/9/2012, § 4)
§ 1428. Accessory Dwelling Units.
Where authorized in a specific zoning district, an accessory dwelling unit
shall meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   One accessory dwelling unit may be permitted on a lot.
   B.   The owner of the lot shall maintain his or her primary residence in
either the principal or the accessory dwelling unit. The other dwelling unit
shall be occupied by persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the lot
owner.
   C.   Each year the owner of the lot shall provide the Township with a
written statement in a form prepared by the Township, together with the
applicable fee, certifying compliance with this Section. In the event the lot
owner fails to comply with this requirement, the lot owner shall be required to
reconvert the accessory dwelling unit into part of the principal dwelling unit
or completely remove the accessory dwelling unit.
   D.   One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for the
accessory dwelling unit.
   E.   The accessory dwelling unit shall either be a manufactured home or
shall be contained in or attached to the principal dwelling. If the accessory
dwelling unit is contained to or attached to the principal dwelling, it shall
be designed so that the appearance of the building remains that of a single
family detached dwelling. Any necessary additional entrances or exits shall be
located to the side or rear of the existing dwelling.
   F.   The maximum size of the accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed sixty
(60) percent of the total floor area of the principal dwelling unit or one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet, whichever is less.
   G.   Any on-lot sewage disposal system shall be certified by the Sewage
Enforcement Officer to meet all applicable requirements as a result of the
inclusion or addition of the accessory dwelling unit.
   H.   The accessory dwelling unit shall conform with all other zoning
requirements including, but not limited to, setbacks and impervious surface
coverage. The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with the Uniform
Construction Code.
   I.   The accessory dwelling unit permit shall be deemed to be automatically
revoked if the Zoning Officer determines that the owner of the lot no longer
meets the requirements of this Section, the accessory dwelling unit or
principal dwelling unit are not occupied by persons meeting the requirements of
this Section, or if the lot is sold.
   J.   The owner of the lot shall present evidence of the recording of an
agreement between the owner and the Township, in a form acceptable to the
Township Solicitor, which sets forth that the occupancy of the accessory
dwelling unit is limited as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 1-9-19, 1/9/2019, §3)
§ 1429. Communication Antennas, Towers and Equipment
   1.   New communication antennas, towers and equipment where authorized by
this Chapter shall be subject to the following:
      A.   All new or replacement towers/monopoles 150 feet or less in height,
not including lighting rod, shall be designed to accommodate at least one
additional personal communication services (PCS)/cellular platform. All new or
replacement towers/monopoles in excess of 150 feet in height shall be designed
to accommodate at least two additional PCS/cellular platforms.
      B.   All satellite dish antennas that are used to transmit video format
data shall be completely enclosed by an eight-foot high, non-climbable fence
with a self-locking gate that includes signage warnings of dangerous radiation
levels.
      C.   Equipment buildings accessory to communications antennas shall be a
maximum of 250 square feet in area.
      D.   A communications tower shall be set back from all lot lines the
greater of the height of the tower above the surrounding ground elevation or
the principal building setback applicable in the district.
      E.   The Applicant shall submit evidence from a registered professional
engineer certifying that the proposed structure will meet applicable wind
resistant standards of the Uniform Construction Code and shall present evidence
that all antennas to be located on the tower shall comply with all applicable
standards established by the Federal Communications Commission governing human
exposure to electromagnetic radiation.
      F.   No signs or lights shall be mounted on a communications tower except
as may be required by the Federal Communications Commission, Federal Aviation
Administration, or other governmental entity.
      G.   Abandonment. Any tower/monopole that is not operated for a
continuous period of six months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of
such tower shall remove the same within 90 days of a receipt of notice from the
Township notifying the owner of such abandonment. If such tower is not removed
within 90 days, the Township may remove the tower at the owner's expense.
   2.   Communications antennas mounted on structures existing as of October 1,
2017, where authorized by this Chapter shall be subject to the following
criteria:
      A.   Building-mounted communication antennas shall not be located on any
building used for residential purposes.
      B.   Building-mounted communication antennas shall be permitted to exceed
the height of the existing structure by no more than 20 feet, unless the
antennas are concealed from view.
      C.   Any applicant proposing communication antennas to be mounted on a
building or other structure shall submit evidence of agreements and/or
easements necessary to provide access to the building or structure on which the
antennas are to be mounted, so that installation and maintenance of the
antennas and communication equipment building can be accomplished.
      D.   Communication antennas shall comply with all applicable standards
established by the Federal Communications Commission governing human exposure
to electromagnetic radiation.
      E.   Communication antennas shall not cause radio frequency interference
with other communication facilities located in the Township.
      F.   A communication equipment building shall be subject to the height
and setback requirements of the district for an accessory structure.
      G.   The owner or operator of communication antennas shall be licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate such antennas.
      H.   The applicant shall submit testimony on how this facility will be
disguised so that it blends in with the surrounding area.
      I.   The communications equipment building and antenna shall be an
accessory use on the property that it is erected.
   3.   Where a communications tower is in existence or a structure has been
approved for the location of communications antenna, the co-location,
modification, and replacement of facilities, as such terms are defined in the
Wireless Broadband Co-Location Act, Act 191 of 2012, as amended, shall be
regulated in accordance with such statute. It is the intention of the Township
that this Chapter be interpreted in a manner to comply with such statute while
requiring an applicant to obtain special exception approval for the initial
construction of communications towers and the initial designation of an
existing structure as a wireless support, structure upon which wireless
communications facilities may be installed.
   4.   Location Within a Right-of-Way. Communication antennas and accessory
equipment, not including poles and towers, shall be permitted within a public
right-of-way in any zoning district, subject to the following:
      A.   Co-location.
         (1)   Antennas and their accessory cabinets shall be located on
existing utility poles, light poles, traffic signal poles, or other similar
structures.
         (2)   A pole or structure shall not be erected solely for the purpose
of accommodating a communications antenna or its accessory equipment cabinet.
         (3)   Written permission of the co-location proposal shall be provided
from the pole or structure's owner.
      B.   Design and Location Standards.
         (1)   Equipment cabinets shall be affixed to a pole, except where
ground-mounted cabinets are shown to minimize the visual impact upon the
surrounding area.
         (2)   Where equipment cabinets are to be ground-mounted, they shall be
set back at least 18 inches from the face of curb, or 48 inches from the edge
of pavement where curb is not present. Additionally, the equipment shall not
cause any physical or visual obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
to otherwise create safety hazards to pedestrians and/or motorists or to
otherwise inconvenience use of the public right-of-way as determined by the
Township.
         (3)   Poles and attached equipment shall not exceed 60 feet in height
when located in the A-Agricultural District, RR-Rural Residential District, C-
1 General Commercial District, C-2 Highway Commercial District, and I-
Industrial District.
      C.   Time, Place, and Manner. The Township shall determine the time,
place, and manner of construction, maintenance, repair, and/or removal of all
structures in the Township right-of-way based on public safety, traffic
management, physical burden on the Township right-of-way, and related
considerations. For public utilities, the time, place, and manner requirements
shall be consistent with the police powers of the Township and the requirements
of the Public Utility Code.
      D.   Relocation or Removal of Facilities. Within sixty (60) days
following written notice from the. Township, or such longer period as the
Township determines is reasonably necessary or such shorter period in the case
of an emergency, an owner of communications equipment in the Township right-of-
way shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change, or alter the position of any communications equipment when the
Township, consistent with its police powers and applicable Public Utility
Commission regulations, shall determine that such removal, relocation, change,
or alteration is reasonably necessary under the following circumstances:
         (1)   The construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
Township or other public improvement in the right-of-way.
         (2)   The operations of the Township or other governmental entity in
the right-of-way.
         (3)   Vacation of a street or road, or the release of a utility
easement.
         (4)   An emergency, as determined by the Township.
      E.   Compensation for Township Right-of-Way Use. Communications equipment
in the Township right-of-way is subject to the Township's right to fix annually
a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for use and occupancy of the
Township right-of-way. Such compensation for Township right-of-way use shall be
directly related to the Township's actual right-of-way management costs
including, but not limited to, the costs of the administration and performance
of all reviewing, inspecting, permitting, supervising, and other right-of-way
management activities by the Township. The owner of each piece of
communications equipment shall pay an annual fee to the Township to compensate
the Township for the Township's costs incurred in connection with the
activities described above, which shall be determined by the Township and
authorized by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and shall be based on the
Township's actual right-of-way management costs as applied to such
communications equipment.
(Ord. 2-14-18-1, 2/14/2018, § 5)
§ 1430. Short Term Rentals.
   1.   Permit Required. No person shall operate or allow for the operation of
a short term rental without first obtaining a short term rental permit from the
Township Zoning Officer. Operation of a short term rental without a valid short
term rental permit is a violation of this Chapter.
   2.   Permitting Procedure.
      A.   Short term rental permit applications shall be submitted to the
Township Zoning Officer and shall contain all of the following information:
         (1)   Contact information, including:
            (a)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the
owner. If the owner does not have a managing agency, agent, or local contact
person, then the owner shall provide a 24-hour telephone number. If the owner
intends to use an agent or local contact person to manage the short rental
property, then that agent or local contact person shall have written
authorization to accept service of legal papers for the owner and reside within
fifteen (15) minutes of the short term rental property. Such person is defined
for the purposes of this Section as the "person in charge." If the owner
resides at a location over approximately fifteen (15) miles from the short term
rental property or is a corporate entity, the owner must designate a person in
charge.
            (b)   The name, address, and 24-hour telephone number of the person
in charge, if any.
            (c)   Signatures of both the owner and the person in charge. If the
property is owned by more than one owner, then all owners of the property are
required to sign the application. If the property is owned by a corporate
entity, an authorized officer of such entity is required to sign the
application and designate a person in charge.
         (2)   Floor plans of the structure to be used as a short term rental,
including:
            (a)   Identification of rooms on all floors and specific location
and dimensions of bedrooms.
            (b)   Total number of bedrooms.
         (3)   Site plan of the lot on which the short term rental is located,
including:
            (a)   Property lines, driveways, and all structures.
            (b)   Location and number of on-site parking spaces.
            (c)   Location and identification of all components of the sewage
disposal system, if not served by a public sanitary sewer system.
         (4)   Other certificates and information, including:
            (a)   If the property is not served by a public sanitary sewer
system, a septic system evaluation certifying that the existing system is
functioning as intended and proof the tank was pumped within the past three (3)
years for approval by the Township's Sewage Enforcement Officer.
            (b)   Consent for inspection of the property by the Township Zoning
Officer, upon 48 hours' prior notice to the owner or person in charge to verify
consistency with the submitted application and the terms and conditions of this
Section.
            (c)   Copy of recorded deed to evidence ownership of the property.
            (d)   Declaration page of the current insurance policy indicating
at least $500,000 liability insurance to cover the commercial use of property
as a short term rental.
            (e)   Trespass waiver signed by the owner allowing access to the
property for the Township Zoning Officer to verify compliance with this
Section.
            (f)   Confirmation that the applicant has taken all action required
to register with the Lebanon County Treasurer to enable the applicant to pay
the hotel and/or room rental taxes imposed by Lebanon County. The Zoning
Officer shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for the short term rental
unit until the applicant presents such confirmation of registration.
      B.   Short term rentals shall be subject to site inspections by the
Township Zoning Officer prior to permit issuance and thereafter upon 48-hours'
prior notice to the owner or person in charge to verify application information
(including the floor plan and site plan information) and compliance with the
provisions of this Section and the following requirements:
         (1)   Short term rentals shall have a clearly visible and legible
notice posted within the structure on or adjacent to the inside of the front
door containing the following information:
            (a)   The name and telephone number of the owner of the unit and
the name and telephone number of the person in charge, if any.
            (b)   The street address of the property as recognized by the
Lebanon County Emergency Management Services.
            (c)   The maximum number of occupants permitted to stay in the
short term rental and the maximum number of day guests permitted at any one
time based on the provisions of this Section and a notification that day guests
may not be on the property on any day before 7:00 AM or after 10:00 PM.
            (d)   The maximum number of vehicles allowed to be on the property
and notification that all occupant and guest parking must be in the available
parking areas on the property which shall be improved to meet the requirements
of Section 1508 of this Chapter. Parking shall not be permitted in or along any
private or public street right-of-way or on any lawn or vegetated area on the
property.
            (e)   The trash pick-up day and notification that trash and refuse
shall not be left or stored on the exterior of the property outside of proper
receptacles.
            (f)   Notification that an occupant or guest may be cited and fined
for creating a nuisance or disturbance or for violating any other provisions of
the Township's ordinances or other laws.
            (g)   Notification that short term rental occupants are required to
make the unit available for inspection by the Township Zoning Officer pursuant
to the provisions of this Section.
         (2)   Short term rentals shall be equipped with the following, all of
which shall be in working order at all times:
            (a)   Smoke detectors in each bedroom.
            (b)   Smoke detectors outside each bedroom in common hallways.
            (c)   Smoke detectors on each floor.
            (d)   GFI outlets for outlets located within six (6) feet of a
water sources.
            (e)   Aluminum or metal exhaust from dryer.
            (f)   Carbon monoxide detector if open flame (oil or gas) furnace,
gas or wood fireplace, or wood-burning or coal burning stove.
            (g)   Carbon monoxide detector in garage if attached to the short
term rental.
            (h)   Fire extinguisher in kitchen and every floor level.
            (i)   Stairs (indoor and outdoor) in good condition.
            (j)   Any other occupancy and property maintenance requirements
under the Township's ordinances applicable to single-family dwelling units.
         (3)   If the property is not served by a public sanitary sewer system,
the Zoning Officer shall inspect the on lot sewage disposal system to verify
consistence with the submitted sited plan and the submitted floor plan.
      C.   A short term rental permit shall be issued only to the owner of the
property upon with the short term rental is located, and is subject to the
following:
         (1)   No more than one short term rental may be located on a lot.
         (2)   A short term rental permit is effective for the time period
between the issuance of the short term rental permit until December 31 of the
same calendar year. Thereafter, a short term rental permit must be renewed
annually on a calendar year basis.
      D.   The Township shall prescribe forms and procedures for processing
applications for short term rental permits and renewals thereof, and the Board
of Supervisors may establish reasonable fees by resolution for the processing
of applications for short term rental permits and renewals thereof.
      E.   Short term rental permits are not transferrable to successors-in-
interest to the property. If the property is conveyed and the new owner wishes
to continue operating a short term rental thereon, the new owner must apply for
and be issued a short term rental permit pursuant to the terms of this Section.
   3.   Short Term Rental Standards.
      A.   Minimum lot size: 10 acres.
      B.   Minimum setbacks: A short term rental unit shall be set back from
all lot lines by at least 50 feet, unless a greater setback is required under
the dimensional requirements of the property's zoning district. All other
structures on the property available for use by the occupants of shall be set
back from lot lines as required under the dimensional requirements of the
property's zoning district or otherwise permitted as nonconforming under this
Chapter.
      C.   A short term rental may only be established in a structure existing
on January 1, 2021.
      D.   Subject to subsection G, below, a short term rental shall be
occupied overnight by only a "family" as defined by this Chapter, and the total
overnight occupancy shall not exceed the two (2) times the number of bedrooms
in the short term rental plus four (4). Overnight occupancy shall not exceed
this number.
      E.   The maximum number of day guests allowed at any one time in addition
to the overnight occupants, shall be fifty (50%) of the maximum overnight
occupancy of the short term rental. Day guests may not be on the property on
any day before 7:00 AM or after 10:00 PM.
      F.   A short term rental and the property upon which it is located shall
not be used by the overnight occupants or guests for gatherings such weddings,
parties, family and class reunions, picnics, corporate meetings and retreats,
unless such attendance at such events is limited to only the permitted
overnight occupants and day guests (during the time period in which day guests
may be on the property).
      G.   If the lot containing the short term rental is not served by a
public sanitary sewer system:
         (1)   The number of bedrooms permitted for use in a short term rental
shall not exceed the number of bedrooms approved for the structure on the
sewage permit issued for the property.
         (2)   Where there is no sewage permit on record, the short term rental
shall be limited to three (3) bedrooms unless the Township's Sewage Enforcement
Officer determines that the septic system is adequate to handle additional
flows.
         (3)   No owner (or agent of owner) shall advertise a short term rental
with more than five (5) bedrooms unless the Township's Sewage Enforcement
Officer has determined that the septic system is adequate to handle such flows.
         (4)   If a sewage system malfunction occurs, the short term rental use
on the property shall be immediately discontinued and remain unoccupied until
the malfunction is corrected in accordance with Township and State
requirements.
      H.   Outdoor parking for overnight occupants and day guests shall be
limited to the available parking areas on the short term rental property. In no
event shall short term rental overnight occupants or day guests parking in any
public street right-of-way, on any lawns or vegetated areas on the property, or
on another property.
      I.   Neither short term rental overnight occupants nor their day guests
shall engage in disorderly conduct or disturb the peace and quiet of any nearby
neighborhood or person by loud, unusual or excessive noise, by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, public indecency, threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight, or fighting, or creating a dangerous or physically
offensive condition.
      J.   The owner of the short term rental shall use best efforts to assure
that the overnight occupants and day guests of the short term rental do not
create unreasonable noise or disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or
otherwise violate the Township's ordinances or any state law pertaining to
noise or disorderly conduct including, but not limited to, notifying the
overnight occupants of the rules regarding short term residential rentals and
responding when notified that the occupants are violating such laws,
ordinances, or regulations.
      K.   Recreational vehicles and campers trailers may not be parked on the
property, and outdoor, overnight camping or sleeping on the property is
prohibited.
      L.   The discharge of fireworks or firearms on the property is
prohibited.
      M.   Campfires and other outdoor fires are permitted only in adequately
constructed fire circles or outdoor fire places, and must be at least one
hundred (100) feet from any lot line.
      N.   An overnight occupant of a short term rental may not sublease all or
a portion of the short term rental.
   4.   Inspections of Short Term Rentals.
      A.   All permitted short term rentals are subject to inspection by the
Township Zoning Officer, during daytime hours and upon 48-hours advance notice
to the owner or person in charge, to verify the information provided on the
permit application and compliance with the provisions of this Section.
      B.   Notwithstanding Subsection A, above, if there is sufficient reason
to believe that the provisions of this Section are being violated, then the
Township Zoning Officer is permitted to enter onto the property at any time and
without notice to the owner or person in charge to cure or cause to be cured
such violations. In such situations the Township Zoning Officer may request the
assistance of law enforcement agencies if appropriate. Within twelve (12) hours
of any entry onto the property under this provision, the Township Zoning
Officer shall call the owner or person in charge and provide information about
the alleged violations and actions taken by the Township Zoning Officer and law
enforcement personnel.
   5.   Marketing. The marketing of a short term rental in which the advertised
occupancy exceeds the requirements of this Section or which promotes any
activity in the short term rental or property that is prohibited by this
Section shall be a violation of this Section.
   6.   Nuisances. In the interest of promoting the public hearing, safety, and
welfare, and minimizing the burden on the Township and community services and
impacts on residential neighborhoods posed by short term rentals, a violation
of any of the provisions of this Section is declared to be a public nuisance
and may be prosecuted by the Township as such.
   7.   Enforcement.
      A.   The Township Zoning Officer shall enforce this Section pursuant to
Part 20 of this Chapter or as set forth in Subsection B, below.
      B.   If the Township Zoning Officer has determined that there has been a
violation of any provision in this Section, the Township Zoning Officer may,
within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such violation, issue to the owner
and person in charge, if any, a determination of violation, which shall state
the date, time, property address, alleged violation, and names and addresses of
all participants and witnesses of such violation known to the Township Zoning
Officer at the time the determination of violation is being prepared. Upon
receipt of a determination of violation, the owner may appeal such
determination of violation to the Zoning Hearing.
      C.   In addition to, and not in limitation of, the provisions of
Subsections A and B, above, the Township Zoning Officer may revoke or deny an
application to renew any owner's short term rental permit following a total of
three (3) of either prosecuted violations of this Section under Part 20 of this
Chapter or unappealed/sustained or determinations of violation under Subsection
B, above, in any rolling twelve (12) month period from the date of the first
prosecution or sustained determination of violation (or date that the
determination becomes unappealable if not appealed). Such revocation or denial
to renew a short term rental permit shall continue for six (6) months for the
first three prosecuted violations or unappealed/sustained determinations of
violation, and continue for one (1) year for any subsequent prosecuted
violations or unappealed/sustained determinations of violation.
      D.   If the property is owned by more than one owner, each owner jointly
and severally be subject to prosecution under this Section.
[Added by Ord. 5-12-21-1, 5/12/2021, § 7]
§ 1431. Solar Energy Facilities.
   1.   Small Solar Energy Systems as Accessory Uses.
      A.   A small solar energy system shall be permitted as an accessory use
to an existing principal use in any zoning district by right subject to the
regulations set forth in this section. It shall be the joint responsibility of
the landowner and applicant to prove compliance with this section at the time
of application for a building/zoning permit.
      B.   All solar energy equipment shall be located on the lot in which the
principal use is located, with the exception that power lines or any related
equipment to the solar energy system may be located on an adjacent lot provided
it will comply with all applicable virtual net metering laws of the applicable
public utility provider.
      C.   The small solar energy system shall provide power only for the
principal use which it services; any excess power generated by the small solar
energy system shall only be sold or acquired by a public utility in accordance
with law or other governmental regulations.
      D.   All mechanical equipment associated with and necessary for the
operation of the small solar energy system, including any structure for
batteries or storage cells, shall be screened from view with an enclosed six
(6)-foot high fence or evergreen plantings of equal height. The evergreen
plantings shall be of a type approved by the Township and shall be planted to
provide a full screen of the mechanical equipment. No invasive vegetation or
noxious weed shall be permitted to fulfill the screening requirements. Any
required fencing shall be made of wood, masonry, durable plastic, or other
decorative material approved by the Township. Chain link fences shall not be
permitted unless they are fully screened from view by evergreen plantings of
equal or greater height than the fence.
      E.   Ground-mounted small solar energy systems.
         (1)   No part of a ground-mounted small solar energy system shall be
located any closer than fifteen (15) feet from any side or rear property lines.
The front yard setback from the centerline of the street for ground-mounted
systems shall be in accordance with the setback regulations of the district in
which the solar energy system is located plus an additional fifteen (15) feet
from the centerline of the street.
         (2)   Ground-mounted small solar energy systems shall not be placed
within any legal easement or right-of-way location, or be placed within any
stormwater conveyance system or in any other manner that would alter or impede
stormwater runoff from collecting in a constructed stormwater conveyance
system.
         (3)   Ground-mounted small solar energy systems shall not be placed in
a manner that would cause a violation of any other section of this Chapter
including minimum parking requirements, required buffer yards or other
landscaping requirements, maximum impervious coverage limitations, or any other
applicable standards of this Chapter as determined by the Zoning Officer.
         (4)   Ground-mounted panels of a small solar energy system shall be
counted towards the lot's maximum coverage requirements, unless the applicant
can demonstrate that stormwater will infiltrate into the ground beneath the
solar panels at a rate equal to that of the infiltration rate prior to
placement of the panels.
         (5)   Ground-mounted small solar energy systems shall not exceed the
height of an accessory structure for the particular zoning district in which
the solar system is to be located. In zoning districts where a maximum height
of an accessory structure is not separately stated, the maximum height of the
solar panels, structures, or other equipment relating to the ground-mounted
solar energy system shall not exceed 20 feet.
      F.   Roof-mounted small solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the
peak elevation of the top of the roof on which the panels are to be
constructed. If the solar panels are to be constructed on a flat roof, no part
of the solar energy system shall exceed the maximum height requirements for the
zoning district in which the building is located.
      G.   All electric and utility lines associated with the small solar
energy system shall be buried underground.
      H.   Any installation of a small solar energy system shall comply with
all applicable standards of the Uniform Construction Code.
      I.   Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar radiation
or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
      J.   The small solar energy system shall be kept in good repair and sound
condition. Upon abandonment of the use, the solar panels, electrical wires,
support structures, and any other related structures and equipment shall be
dismantled and removed from the lot within 60 days.
      K.   No signage or advertising of any kind shall be utilized or attached
to the small solar energy system. This requirement shall not include the make
and model description of the solar energy system, manufacturer's required
hangtags or warning signs or other signage that is required by law.
      L.   The owner of the small solar energy system shall be required to
provide a certificate of insurance to the Township providing evidence of
liability insurance of not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000).
   2.   Large Scale Solar Energy Systems as a Principal Use.
      A.   Large scale solar energy systems as principal uses on a lot shall
comply with all performance standards stated in §
1420.
      B.   The landowner and/or applicant shall present the following evidence
to the Zoning Hearing Board at the hearing for a large scale solar energy
system:
         (1)   A narrative describing the proposed large scale solar energy
system, including an overview of the project; the project location; the
approximate generating capacity of the solar energy system; the approximate
number, representative types and height or range of heights of the panels or
other solar energy equipment to be constructed, including their generating
capacity, dimensions and respective manufacturers, and a description of all
ancillary facilities.
         (2)   Identification of the properties or portions thereof on which
the proposed large scale solar energy system will be located and also the
properties adjacent to where the large scale solar energy system will be
located.
         (3)   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing all of the following
information, as applicable: the planned location of each solar panel, related
structures, setback lines, access roads and turnout locations, substations,
electrical wiring, ancillary equipment, buildings and structures, including
associated distribution and/or transmission lines, floodplains, easements,
wetlands and limits of earth disturbance associated with construction of the
large scale solar energy system. Ground-mounted panels of a large scale solar
energy system shall be counted towards the lot's maximum coverage requirements,
unless the applicant can demonstrate that stormwater will infiltrate into the
ground beneath the solar panels at a rate equal to that of the infiltration
rate prior to placement of the panels.
         (4)   Documents indicating the type and specifications of fencing to
be used around the perimeter of the large scale solar energy system.
         (5)   Any documents related to decommissioning of the large scale
solar energy system, including a schedule for decommissioning of the solar
panels and related equipment.
         (6)   Documents indicating compliance with other applicable federal,
state and local laws regulating large solar energy systems and/or land
development including, but not limited to, regulations of the Public Utility
Commission, electric power supplier, Lebanon County Conservation District, and
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      C.   The minimum lot size for any large scale solar energy system shall
be five acres.
      D.   No large scale solar energy system related equipment or structure
shall be located any closer than fifty (50) feet to any property line. No large
scale solar energy system related equipment or structure shall be located
closer than one hundred fifteen (115) feet from the centerline of any public
street.
      E.   The layout, design, and installation of large scale solar energy
system shall conform to applicable industry standards, including those of the
ANSI, Underwriters Laboratories (UL), the ASTM, or other similar certifying
organizations, and shall comply with the Uniform Construction Code and with all
other applicable fire and life safety requirements. The manufacturer
specifications shall be submitted as part of the application.
      F.   All on-site utility and transmission lines extending to and from the
large scale solar energy system shall be placed underground.
      G.   All large scale solar energy systems shall be designed and located
in order to prevent reflective glare toward any inhabited buildings on adjacent
properties as well as adjacent street rights-of-way.
      H.   Large scale solar energy systems mounted on the roof of any building
shall be subject to the maximum height regulations specified within each zoning
district.
      I.   The owner shall provide evidence in the form of stamped plans
certified by a professional engineer that the roof is structurally sound.
      J.   All ground-mounted and free standing solar collectors of large scale
solar energy systems shall be completely enclosed by a minimum eight (8)-foot
high fence with a self-locking gate.
      K.   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage shall be placed at
the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations or fence.
      L.   The large scale solar energy system owner is required to notify the
Township immediately upon cessation or abandonment of the operation. The large
scale solar energy system owner shall then have twelve (12) months in which to
dismantle and remove the large solar energy production facility from the
property. At the time of issuance of the permit for the construction of the
large scale solar energy system, the owner shall provide financial security in
form and amount acceptable to the Township to secure the expense of dismantling
and removing said structures.
      M.   The owner of the large scale solar energy system shall be required
to provide a certificate of insurance to the Township providing evidence of
liability insurance of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) and
naming the Township as an additional insured on the policy or policies of the
owner and/or lessee.
(Ord. 1-12-22, 1/12/2022, § 5)
Part 15
Off-Street Parking
§ 1501. Off-Street Parking Facilities, When Required.
Accessory off- street parking facilities, including access driveways, shall be
required in accordance with the provisions of this Part as a condition
precedent to the occupancy of such building or use. Facilities shall be
provided for the entire building or use:
   A.   Whenever a building is constructed or a new use established;
   B.   Whenever the use of an existing building is changed to a use requiring
more parking facilities;
   C.   Whenever an existing building is altered or enlarged so as to increase
the amount of parking spaces required under this Part.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.01)
§ 1502. Continuation of Parking Facilities.
All off-street parking facilities, or those required as accessory to a use of a
proposed or altered building, shall continue unobstructed in operation, shall
not be used for commercial automobile service or repair and shall not be
reduced below the required size as long as the main use remains, unless an
equivalent number of spaces is provided for such use in another approved
location.
In order to insure the continued use for parking purposes of any areas
established therefor by persons who are not the owners thereof, the Township
Supervisors may require, before approval, evidence in writing that the owner or
owners of the land to be included in such parking areas have by covenant agreed
to allow the use of such land for the required off-street parking; such
covenant to be filed for record with the Recorder of Deeds of Lebanon County.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.02)
§ 1503. Standards and Definitions.
For the purpose of determining accessory off-street parking requirements,
definitions and standards shall be as follows:
   ACCESSORY PARKING SPACE - an open or enclosed area accessible from a street
for parking of motor vehicles of owners, occupants, employees, customers, or
tenants of the main building or use. Each parking space shall be not less than
ten feet (10') wide and not less than twenty feet (20') long, exclusive of all
drives, curbs, and turning space. The number of spaces shall be determined from
an accurate plan of the area.
   FLOOR AREA - the total area all the floors measured from the exterior faces
of the building (except the floor area used for storage or packaging of
merchandise may be excluded), or, where set forth in the schedule in §
1504 only the floor area used by a specific use.
   SEAT - the number of seating units installed or indicated, or each twenty-
four (24) linear inches of benches, pews, or space for loose chairs or similar
seating facilities; spacing of rows shall be thirty inches (30") on center.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.03)
§ 1504.    Schedule of Minimum Required Off-Street Parking Spaces.
Building or Use Parking Spaces Required
Building or Use                                                                 Parking Spaces Required
INSTITUTIONAL
1.   Civic and educational; primary and secondary school; library places for 1 space for each employee plus 1 space for each five (5) seats in assembly
public assembly                                                                 rooms.
2.   Governmental; municipal building used for administrative functions      1 space for each two hundred (200) square feet of office floor area plus 1 space
                                                                                for each four (4) seats in assembly room.
3.   Place of worship                                                        1 space for each five (5) seats in principal assembly rooms.
4.   Welfare: Hospital                                                       1 space per three (3) beds plus 1 space for each employee on the largest shift.
   Health Center                                                             1 space per one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area.
   Home for the aging; Nursing Home                                          1 space per each five (5) guest rooms or apartment units plus 1 space for each
                                                                                employee.
   Group Foster Home                                                         1 space per each 2 guests plus 2 spaces for each resident family plus 1 space
                                                                                for each employee.
                                                                                2 off-street parking spaces for each transitional housing dwelling unit, plus 1
   Retreat [Ord. 9804]                                                       space for each employee, plus 1 space for each 2 beds in cabins providing
                                                                                overnight accommodation. [Ord. 9804]
RESIDENTIAL
5.   One, two and multi-family                                               2 spaces per dwelling unit
OFFICE BUILDING
6.   Medical and dental offices and clinics                                  1 space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area plus 1 space for each
                                                                                doctor and dentist.
7.   Other Offices                                                           1 space per four hundred (400) square feet of ground floor area; 1 space per
                                                                                five hundred (500) square feet of floor area of upper floors.
8.   Motel, Hotel                                                            1 space per guest room or unit.
                                                                                1 space    per thirty (30) square feet of assembly rooms, or 1 space for each
9.   Mortuary                                                                four (4) seats, whichever requires the greater number, but in no case less than
                                                                                twenty (20) spaces.
RETAIL BUSINESS
10.   Retail stores, banks, service                                          1 space per three hundred (300) square feet of ground floor area; 1 space per
                                                                                five hundred (500) square feet of floor area of upper floors.
11.   Eating places, bars, taverns                                           1 space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area, or 1 space per two (2)
                                                                                seats, whichever requires the greater number of spaces.
12.   Club, lodge, or other assembly hall                                    1 space per four (4) seats in building.
COMMERCIAL BUSINESS
13.   Indoor Theater                                                         1 space per four (4) seats in building.
14.   Dance hall, skating rink, swimming pool                                1 space per fifty (50) square feet of area used for dancing, skating, or
                                                                                swimming.
15.   Bowling Alley                                                          Four (4) spaces per bowling lane.
16.   Service and Storage                                                    1 space for every two (2) employees on the combined employment on the two (2)
                                                                                largest successive shifts.
17.   Executive Offices, Sales                                               1 space per two hundred (200) square feet of executive and sales office floor
                                                                                area of one and one-half (1½) spaces per employee, whichever is larger.
18.   Service and storage establishments, laboratories, manufacturing plants One (1) space for every two (2) employees on the two largest shifts or one (1)
and other uses provided in the Industrial District [Ord. 10-10-01]              space per 100 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greatest. [Ord. 10-
                                                                                10-01]
19.   Storage and warehousing [Ord. 10-10-01]                                One (1) space per employee on the two (2) largest shifts [Ord. 10-10-01]
20.   For a specific building or use not scheduled, the Zoning Officer shall apply the unit of measurement of the above deemed most similar to the proposed use.
[Ord. 10-10-01]
 
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.04; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, §§ 8-9; and
by Ord. 9804, 9/8/2004, § 3)
§ 1505. Separate or Combined Use or Facilities.
A building containing one (1) use shall provide the off-street parking space as
required for the specific use. A building or group of buildings containing two
(2) or more uses, operating normally during the same hours, and which have
different off-street parking requirements, shall provide spaces for not less
than the sum of spaces required for each use.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.05)
§ 1506. Parking and Garage Facilities for Residences.
Accessory parking facilities shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling
served. Each single family, duplex, two-family and multi-family dwelling shall
have on its premises a private parking space sufficient in capacity for the
storage at one time of at least two (2) automobiles for each dwelling on the
premises.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.06)
§ 1507. Site Plan Approval.
   1.   Each application for a zoning permit (for a use for which parking
spaces are required) shall include a detailed drawing (site plan), drawn to
scale, showing the proposed layout of the parking area. The drawing shall
indicate all of the design elements required hereafter; and,
   2.   No zoning permit shall be issued for any use for which parking spaces
are required unless the site plan has been approved or necessary variances have
been obtained.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.07; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 10)
§ 1508. Surfacing.
   1.   All parking lots shall be constructed and maintained with a paved
surface of bituminous materials or another dust-free surface approved by the
Board.
   2.   All parking compounds proposed for automobiles shall be paved to meet
the following minimum standards:
      A.   Crushed aggregate base course with a minimum thickness of six (6)
inches, as specified in PennDOT Specifications, Publication 408, and its latest
revisions.
      B.   The bituminous surface shall consist of a minimum of two (2) inches
of ID-2 binder course and one and one-half (1½) inch ID-2 wearing course.
Material shall be equal or superior to current PennDOT Specifications
Publication 408/90, as amended, and shall be applied in accordance with those
same specifications.
   3.   Parking compounds proposed for trucks shall require a heavier pavement
section. The pavement section for parking compounds for trucks shall be
designed for their intended use but in all instances the paving section shall
not be less then the design guidelines for the minimum depths of pavement
courses, flexible pavement, collector functional classification, (Table 2.1) as
provided in PENNDOT Publication 70, Guidelines For the Design of Local Roads
and Streets, as amended.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.08; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 11)
§ 1509. Separation From Streets and Sidewalks.
Parking spaces shall be guarded by curbs or concrete wheel stops which are
arranged so that parked cars cannot project into streets, yards, landscaping or
sidewalks.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 12)
§ 1510. Drainage.
Parking lots shall be graded to a minimum slope of one (1) percent and a
maximum slopes of five (5) percent. Adequately sized inlets and stormwater
management facilities shall be provided to discharge storm water in accordance
with the applicable stormwater management regulations.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 13)
§ 1511. Parking Space Size.
Parking spaces shall be sized as follows:
   A.   Parallel parking spaces shall be a minimum of twenty-three (23) feet by
eight (8) feet.
   B.   Non-parallel parking spaces shall be a minimum of nineteen (19) feet by
nine (9) feet.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 14)
§ 1512. Handicap Parking Spaces.
Handicap parking spaces shall be designed and provided in accordance with the
standards of the Americans With Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 15)
§ 1513. Parking Spaces and Interior Drives.
   1.   Interior drives within any commercial or industrial land development
shall be designed so as to prevent blockage of vehicles entering or leaving the
site.
   2.   Interior drives between or along rows of parking spaces shall have the
following minimum width:
 
Angle of Parking Width of Driveway in Feet One- Width of Driveway in Feet Two-
                 Way Traffic                    Way Traffic
90 Degrees       24                             24
60 Degrees       20                             24
45 Degrees       18                             24
30 Degrees       12                             24
Parallel         12                             24
 
   3.   No interior drive shall be less than twelve (12) feet wide for each
lane of travel.
   4.   Not less than a five (5) foot radius shall be provided for horizontal
curves in interior drives and parking areas.
   5.   Areas provided for loading and unloading of delivery trucks and other
vehicles, and for the servicing of shops by refuse collection, fuel and other
service vehicles shall be adequate in size, and shall be so arranged that they
may be used without blockage or interference with the use of interior drives or
parking facilities.
   6.   Interior drives shall be clearly marked by adequate painted markings,
curbing and signs so that operations of vehicles intending to patronize such
parking areas shall not duly impede traffic as a result of any confusion as to
location of entrances and exits and manner of reaching them.
   7.   All parking spaces and interior drives shall be adequately marked and
maintained. The lines defining parking spaces shall be a solid white line with
at least a four (4) inch width. Painted lines for interior drives and painted
arrows shall be provided and maintained to control parking and direct traffic
circulation.
   8.   A sufficient back-up area shall be provided for all dead-end parking
areas by extending the interior drive a minimum of ten (10) feet beyond the
last parking space(s).
   9.   For any parking area designed or expanded for over thirty vehicles,
permanent curbed raised islands shall be provided to separate parking spaces
from access lanes.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 16)
§ 1514. Off Street Loading Areas.
   1.   Size; Surfacing. The loading area shall be at least fifteen (15) feet
wide and sixty-five (65) feet long. It shall be surfaced and maintained with a
bituminous material in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   2.   Layout. The loading area shall be arranged so that there will be no
need for motorists to obstruct or back over any public right-of-way, access
drive, or any parking spaces.
   3.   Location. A ground level loading area may be located in any side or
rear yard. Wherever possible, off-street loading facilities shall be located on
the face of a building not facing any adjoining residentially zoned land.
   4.   Spaces Required. Off-street loading spaces must be provided for each
building erected, enlarged, or for any change of use in accordance with the
following schedule:
Type of Use Number Spaces Unit of Measurement
Type of Use                      Number Spaces Unit of Measurement
                                 None          First 10,000 sq. ft.
Hospital or other institution    1.0           10,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                               (or fraction)
                                 None          First 10,000 sq. ft.
Hotel                            1.0           10,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                 None          First 2,000 sq. ft.
Industry or manufacturing        1.0           2,000 to 25,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 40,000 sq. ft.
                                 None          Less than 100 dwelling units
Multi-family dwelling            1.0           100 to 300 dwelling units
                                 +1.0          Each additional 200 dwelling
                                               units (or fraction)
                                 None          First 10,000 sq. ft.
Office building, including banks 1.0           10,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
                                               (or fraction)
                                 None          First 3000 sq. ft.
Retail sales and services, per   1.0           3,000 to 10,000 sq. ft.
store                            2.0           10,000 to 40,000 sq. ft.
                                 1.0           Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
Shopping centers gross lease     1.0           25,000 sq. ft. up to 100,000 of
area                                           sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
Theater, auditorium, bowling     None          None First 10,000 sq. ft.
alley, etc.                      1.0           10,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 100,000 sq. ft.
Undertaking establishment or     None          First 3,000 square feet
funeral parlor                   1.0           3,000 to 5,000
                                 +1.0          Each additional 10,000 sq. ft.
Wholesale or warehousing,        None          First 1,500 sq. ft.
(except Mini-warehousing)        1.0           1,500 to 10,000 sq. ft.
                                 +1.0          Each additional 30,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 17)
§ 1515. Lighting.
Parking areas, loading areas and pedestrian areas shall be lighted to the
following standards:
   A.   Lighting shall be provided at a minimum average of two (2) foot candles
at an elevation of three (3) feet above the surface.
   B.   All lighting shall be so arranged as to reflect the light downward and
away from adjoining premises and public rights-of-way.
   C.   Poles for mounting lights shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in
height.
   D.   All lighting plans shall be delineated on the plan and shall include
photo metrics.
   E.   Appropriate footer and mounting details shall be included on the plans.
   F.   Light fixture and pole styles shall be approved by the Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 18)
§ 1516. Access Drive Requirements.
Every parking lot shall be connected to a street by means of an access drive.
Access drives shall be designed in accordance with the following:
   A.   Access drives shall be connected to a street of lesser classification
when there is more than one street classification involved.
   B.   The number of access drives intersecting with a street may not exceed
two (2) per lot. The Zoning Hearing Board may, by special exception, grant
additional access drive connections where the street frontage is greater than
two thousand (2000) feet.
   C.   Access drives shall be designed so as to prevent blockage of vehicles
entering or leaving the site.
   D.   The edge(s) of all access drives shall be set back the following
minimum distances:
      (1)    Two hundred (200) feet from any portion of any street
intersection.
      (2)    Two hundred (200) feet from any other access drive located upon
the same lot.
      (3)    Fifteen (15) feet from any side or rear property line. However,
this setback shall be waived when a shared access/parking area is proposed.
   E.   A one-hundred (100) foot clear sight triangle shall be provided and
maintained at the intersections of all access drive and streets.
      (1)   Clear sight triangles shall be indicated on all plans.
      (2)    No building, structure, landscaping, or other obstruction that
would obscure the vision of a motorist shall be permitted within these areas.
   F.   The cartway of all access drives shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the design guidelines for the minimum depths of pavement
courses, flexible pavement, collector functional classification, (Table 2.1) as
provided in PENNDOT Publication 70, Guidelines for the Design of Local Roads
and Streets, as amended.
   G.   Access drives do not require a specific right-of-way; however, the
following standards for cartway width shall apply:
 
Number of Lanes Cartway Width
Three (3) lanes Thirty-six (36) feet
Two (2) lanes   Twenty-four (24) feet
One (1) lane    Twelve (12) feet
 
   H.   Parallel parking may be permitted along one side of access drives
provided the required width is increased by eight (8) feet.
   I.   The maximum grade of any access drive shall not exceed four (4) percent
within one hundred (100) feet of the centerline of the intersecting street. The
maximum grade of access drives shall not exceed ten (10) percent. Vertical and
horizontal curves shall be provided as required by the applicable subdivision
and land development ordinance.
   J.   Access drives shall be provided with an unobstructed green area
(setback) that is parallel to, and along the entire length of the access drive.
      (1)    The width of the green area shall be measured from the edge of
paving and be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet in width.
      (2)   The green area may be utilized for storm water management
facilities, utilities, lighting, landscaping and other compatible uses. In no
case shall any building or structure be located within the required green area.
   K.   Access drives which terminate in a cul-de-sac shall not exceed one
thousand six hundred (1,600) feet in length, measured from the centerline
intersection of a street or access drive which is not a cul-de-sac to the
center of the turnaround area.
   L.   Access Drive Lighting. Any subdivision or land development plan that
proposes an access drive shall provide access drive lighting in accordance with
the following:
      (1)   Lighting shall be provided at a minimum average of one-half (½)
foot candles at an elevation of three (3) feet above the surface.
      (2)   All lighting shall be so arranged as to reflect the light downward
and away from adjoining premises.
      (3)   Poles for mounting lights shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in
height.
      (4)   All lighting plans shall be delineated on the plan and shall
include photo metrics.
      (5)   Appropriate footer and mounting details shall be included on the
plans.
      (6)   Light fixture and pole styles shall be approved by the Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 16.09; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 19)
Part 16
Signs
§ 1601. Definitions.
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   SIGN: The word "sign" includes any writing (including letter, word or
numeral); pictorial representation (including illustration or decoration);
emblem (including device, symbol, or trademark); or any other device or similar
character which (1) is a structure or any part thereof, or is attached to,
painted on, or in any other manner represented on a building, vehicle or other
structure; (2) is used to announce direct attention to, or advertise; and (3)
is visible from outside a building.
      ANIMATED/MOVING SIGN: A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of
motion. Animated signs, which are different from changeable signs as defined
and regulated in this Chapter, include the following types:
         A.   Electrically activated. Animated signs producing the illusion of
movement by means of electronic, electrical or electro-mechanical input and/or
illumination capable of simulating movement through employment of the
characteristics of one or both of the classifications noted below:
            1.   Flashing. Animated signs or animated portions of signs whose
illumination is characterized by a repetitive cycle of intermittent
illumination which includes the illusion of intermittent flashing light by
means of animation. Also any mode of lighting which resembles zooming,
twinkling, or sparkling. For the purposes of this Chapter, flashing will not be
defined as occurring if the cyclical period between on-off phases of
illumination exceeds five (5) seconds.
            2.   Patterned illusionary movement. Animated signs or animated
portions of signs whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement
through alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for
the purpose of producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some
form of constant motion.
         B.   Environmentally activated. Animated signs or devices motivated by
wind, thermal changes or other natural environmental input. Includes spinners,
pinwheels, pennant strings and/or other devices or displays that respond to
naturally occurring external motivation.
         C.   Mechanically activated. Animated signs characterized by
repetitive motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by
electric motors or other mechanically induced means.
      BANNER: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags, or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered banners.
      BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      BUILDING MARKER: Any sign indicating the name of a building and data and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      CANOPY SIGN: Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outside service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
      CHANGEABLE SIGN: A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual or remote input, including signs which are:
         A.   Manually activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or content
can be changed manually.
         B.   Electrically activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or
content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off
switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a
display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as
characterized by lamps or other light-emitting devices; or it may be from an
external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
(See also "Electronic Reader Board/Message Center").
      ELECTRONIC READER BOARD/MESSAGE CENTER: An electrically activated
changeable sign whose variable message capability can be electronically
programmed. A sign that contains a changing message within the copy area that
remains on for a specified minimum period of time and blacks out for a
specified period of time between messages. Messages contained on the sign do
not travel or appear to travel in any direction.
      FLAG: Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision,
or other entity.
      FLASHING SIGN: See "Animated/Moving Sign, electrically activated."
      FREESTANDING SIGN: An independently supported sign which is not attached
to any building or structure.
      IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Any sign indicating the name and address of an
occupant of a building.
      INCIDENTAL SIGN: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as "no parking,"
"entrance," "loading only," "telephone," and other similar directives. No sign
with a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which the sign
is located shall be considered incidental.
      MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made part of a
marquee.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this Chapter.
      PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
      PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A-frames or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used
as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle
is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
      PROJECTING SIGN: A sign erected or displayed which is attached to the
wall of a building and projects in a perpendicular fashion from said wall. Wall
signs that project more than twelve (12) inches shall be treated as projecting
signs.
      ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof
of building supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof. Roof signs shall not exceed the maximum height
requirements for buildings or structures.
      ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL: Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure or design, such that no
part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and
such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space
of more than six (6) inches.
      SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign that is used temporarily and is not permanently
mounted.
      WALL SIGN: A sign erected or displayed on or parallel to the surface of a
building and does not project more than twelve (12) inches therefrom.
      WINDOW SIGN: Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed
to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale,
or service, which is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass
and is visible from the exterior of the window.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING: Any sign which is owned or operated by any person, firm,
or corporation engaged in the business of outdoor advertising for direct profit
gained from the rental of such signs or any sign advertising a commodity not
sold or produced on the premises, including "billboards".
   SIGN, DOUBLE-FACED: A sign consisting of two (2) display areas placed back
to back or joined along a common edge and is treated as having one (1) sign
area. If the display areas are joined along a common edge and the interior
angle is greater than forty-five (45) degrees, the structure shall be treated
as having two (2) sign areas.
   SIGN AREA: The area of a sign shall be construed to include the entire
display surface and background, whether open or enclosed, which encompasses
lettering, wording, designs, and symbols, but not including any supporting
framework and bracing which is incidental to the display itself. The area shall
be determined using the largest visible sign or silhouette area. When the sign
consists of individual letters or symbols attached to or printed on a surface,
the area shall be considered to be the smallest rectangular shape or shapes
which can be drawn together to encompass all of the letters and symbols.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1602. Intent.
   The purpose of these regulations is to permit signs or advertising
structures that will not, by reason of their size, location, construction, or
manner of display, endanger the public safety of individuals, confuse, mislead,
or obstruct the vision necessary for traffic safety or otherwise endanger
public health, safety, and morals; and to permit and regulate signs in such a
way as to support and complement land use objectives set forth in this Chapter.
Signs may be permitted only when in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter and any and all ordinances and regulations relating to the erection,
construction, reconstruction, enlargement, relocation, replacement, alteration
or maintenance of signs and similar devices.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1603. General Regulations.
   All signs and/or advertising structures, where permitted under the terms of
this Chapter, are subject to the following:
      A.   No sign shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced,
altered removed for repair, enlarged, or relocated until a permit is obtained
from the Zoning Officer, except that no permit shall be required by this
Chapter for the following signs:
         1.   Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, postal box numbers or names of the occupants of the premises.
         2.   Flags and insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion.
         3.   Legal notices, official traffic signs, community facilities
signs, municipality identification signs, non-commercial historical or
geographical identification information, or directional signs erected by
government bodies. Such signs may be placed within the road right-of-way.
         4.   Geographical identification and greeting signs erected by civic
and service organizations provided that they do not exceed four (4) square feet
in area and are comprised of the organization's standard emblem or seal.
         5.   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings,
except letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
         6.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, provided that such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet and
such signs shall not contain advertising copy.
         7.   Temporary signs as described in §
1604 and
1606.C. of this Chapter.
         8.   Signs identifying farms, farm associations, and agricultural
products, provided that no farm or association identification signs exceeds ten
(10) square feet in area and no more than one (1) sign shall be erected per
road frontage. Signs identifying agricultural products shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area.
         9.   Hunting, fishing, and trespassing signs and signs indicating
private ownership of roadways or property, provided that such signs do not
exceed two (2) square feet in area and when erected along street frontage the
signs shall be spaced at intervals of not less than one hundred (100) feet.
         10.   Signs up to four (4) square feet in area which are necessary for
the identification, protection, and operation of public utility facilities.
   B.   Every sign shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
structural condition at all times, including the replacement of defective
parts, painting, repainting, cleaning and other acts required for the
maintenance of said sign.
   C.   All signs not owned by the person, firm or organization advertising
thereon shall carry a clearly legible imprint showing the owner's name.
   D.   No sign shall be so illuminated as to have a glaring effect upon
vehicular traffic or adjacent properties. No sign shall be illuminated so as to
constitute a nuisance. No sign shall contain moving parts or use flashing or
intermittent illumination. The source of the light shall be continuous and
stationary.
   E.   No sign shall be higher than thirty-five (35) feet from the ground to
the highest part of the sign.
   F.   No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct entrance to or exit from a
required door, window, fire escape or other required exit way.
   G.   No sign shall be erected that screens traffic signals or signs or
utilizes red, green or amber lights or reflectorized material that creates a
flashing action and is so located as to render ineffective any traffic sign or
signal. Any sign which resembles an official traffic sign or signal, by way of
its appearance or content, shall be prohibited.
   H.   Unless otherwise provided, no sign shall be painted, pasted, or
otherwise affixed to any tree, rock, utility pole, hydrant, bridge, sidewalk,
curb, or street.
   I.   Unless otherwise provided, no portion of any sign shall be erected
within or placed on an existing structure in the road right-of-way.
Additionally, no portion of any sign shall be erected in the "clear sight
triangle" as specified in §
1401.
   J.   Unless otherwise specified, all signs shall be on on-premises, and no
sign shall be erected until a permit has been secured from the Zoning Officer
and approval has been received from any other applicable state or local
agencies.
   K.   No sign shall contain obscene material.
   L.   For the purposes of this Chapter, portable signs, if utilized, shall
comply with the requirements for freestanding signs and shall be included in
the calculation of the maximum allowable sign area for the use.
   M.   For the purposes of this Chapter, canopy signs and suspended signs, if
utilized, shall comply with the requirements for projecting signs and shall be
included in the calculation of the maximum allowable sign area for the use.
   N.   Signs Prohibited Under this Chapter. All signs not expressly permitted
under this Chapter or exempt from regulation hereunder in accordance with the
previous section are prohibited in the Township. Such signs include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   Beacons.
      2.   Pennants.
      3.   Strings of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background,
except for holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message.
      4.   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1604. Signs Permitted in all Districts.
   The following signs are permitted in any zoning district:
   A.   Temporary signs which do not require a permit:
      1.   Temporary signs of painters, mechanics, contractors, realtors, and
the like not exceeding a total of sixteen (16) square feet in area, provided
such signs are removed as soon as the work has been completed.
      2.   Temporary signs and banners of a non-commercial nature across a
public right-of-way are permitted provided (a) permission is obtained from the
Township Supervisors, (b) they are erected in a location which will not cause a
traffic hazard, (c) they meet safety standards and are maintained, and (d) they
are removed when their temporary use is completed.
      3.   Temporary signs announcing a campaign, drive, or event of civic,
philanthropic, educational or religious organization. Such signs shall not
exceed twelve (12) square feet in area and shall be removed within forty-eight
(48) hours after completion of the campaign, drive or event.
      4.   Temporary signs directing patrons, members, audience or customers to
temporary exhibits, shows, events, or activities (e.g. yard sales, fruit sales,
conventions, etc.). Such signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area
and shall be removed within forty-eight (48) hours after completion of the
campaign, drive or event.
      5.   Signs erected in conjunction with a political election provided that
all signs are removed within forty-eight (48) hours after the date of the
election.
   B.   Off-premises directional signs which require issuance of a permit:
      1.   Off-premises directional signs which are used to direct patrons,
members, audience, customers, clients to service clubs, churches, commercial,
industrial, institutional or other organizations may be erected subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   A sign shall indicate only the name of the organization and the
direction to the facility.
         b.   Except at intersections, no sign shall be placed within two
hundred (200) feet of another sign associated with the same principal use.
         c.   All signs shall be placed within two (2) miles of the use and no
more than six (6) signs for each principal use may be erected within the
borders of the municipality.
         d.   All signs shall consist of dark lettering on a light background,
excluding standard issue signs. The signs shall not exceed three (3) square
feet in area, and no moving parts, flashing lights, or any type of illumination
shall be permitted.
         e.   At intersections of public streets, no more than one (1) sign
post accommodating all directional signs may be erected per corner. Said posts
shall not exceed six (6) inches in width and shall not be less than three (3)
feet nor greater than eight (8) feet in height above ground. No more than one
(1) sign per principal use may be attached to any sign post and no portion of
any sign shall be erected within the clear sight triangle as specified in
Section
1401 of this Chapter.
         f.   Application for off-premises directional sign permits shall
include a map indicating location of placement requests and the land owner's
written approval, name to be placed on sign, and distances from the facility to
each sign.
   C.   One (1) name plate for a home occupation, provided that the sign does
not exceed four (4) square feet in size and identifies only the name of the
occupant and title of the occupation. If lighted, the sign shall be illuminated
without objectionable glare. No displays or change in façade shall indicate
from the exterior that the building is being used for any purpose other than
that of a dwelling.
   D.   One (1) institutional sign and/or one (1) bulletin board, for places of
worship, schools, hospitals, libraries, museums, social clubs, and similar
uses, provided each sign or bulletin board does not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet in area and is located no closer to a road right-of-way than 1/2 the depth
of the existing front yard or twenty-five (25) feet, whichever is less. If
lighted, it shall be illuminated without objectionable glare. Additionally, if
such property fronts on more than one (1) street, each street frontage may
contain the above mentioned signs.
   E.   Subdivision signs.
      1.   Temporary - a sign advertising lots for sale, giving prices,
dimensions, services, etc., and which shall be removed within thirty (30) days
of the sale date of the last lot.
      2.   Permanent - a sign containing only the name of the development or
subdivision and designed to be permanently affixed to the land.
One (1) sign per road frontage may be permitted provided the sign is placed at
an entrance to the subdivision, is located on the property to be subdivided,
and does not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in area. No portion of any
sign shall be erected within the clear sight triangle as specified in §
1401.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§1605. Signs in Agricultural Districts.
   The following types of on-premises signs may be permitted in Agricultural
Districts unless otherwise prohibited:
   A.   Signs for the advertisement of permitted agricultural businesses. For
each property involved in a permitted agri-business, one sign may be erected,
provided no sign or portion thereof shall be located closer to the road right-
of-way than 1/2 the depth of the existing front yard or twenty-five (25) feet,
whichever is less.
      1.   Wall, or projecting sign - maximum sign area shall not exceed
sixteen (16) square feet.
      2.   Freestanding sign - maximum sign area shall not exceed twenty-five
(25) square feet.
   B.   Signs for permitted and nonconforming commercial, industrial or
institutional uses. For each property involved in a permitted or nonconforming
commercial, industrial or institutional use, a total sign area of thirty (30)
square feet shall be permitted. No sign or portion thereof shall be located no
closer to the road right-of-way than 1/2 the depth of the existing front yard
or fifteen (15) feet, whichever is less.
      1.   Projecting sign - maximum sign area shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet.
      2.   Freestanding sign - maximum sign shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet.
      3.   Wall or window sign - maximum sign size shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet.
   C.   Signs as permitted in §
1604 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§1606. Signs in Residential Districts.
   The following types of on-premises signs may be permitted in residential
districts unless otherwise prohibited:
   A.   Signs for permitted and nonconforming commercial, industrial,
institutional and/or agricultural uses. For each property involved in a
permitted or nonconforming commercial, industrial, institutional and/or
agricultural use, a total sign area of thirty (30) square feet shall be
permitted. No sign or portion thereof shall be located closer to the road
right-of-way than 1/2 the depth of the existing front yard or fifteen (15)
feet, whichever is less.
      1.   Projecting sign - maximum sign area shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet.
      2.   Freestanding sign - maximum sign shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet.
      3.   Wall or window sign - maximum sign size shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet.
   B.   Signs as permitted in §
1604 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1607. Signs in General Commercial, Highway Commercial and Industrial
Districts.
Unless otherwise specified, only on-premises signs may be permitted, provided
the maximum signs area shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet per
street frontage. All wall, projecting, marquee, roof or freestanding signs must
be erected in compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Signs for the advertisement of agri-business as permitted in §
1605 of this Chapter.
   B.   Signs for permitted and nonconforming commercial, office,
institutional, and industrial uses as follows:
      1.   One (1) or more wall signs for each road frontage provided each wall
sign is attached to the wall of the principal building and projects
horizontally not more than twelve (12) inches therefrom and the total of all
wall signs on the wall shall occupy not more than fifteen (15) percent of the
total area of the front of the principal building. No wall sign shall project
more than three (3) feet above the roof line or parapet wall.
      2.   One (1) projecting, marquee or roof sign for each road frontage
provided it shall not project beyond a vertical plane two (2) feet inside the
road right-of-way line and shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area.
Said signs shall not exceed a height of thirty-five (35) feet.
      3.   One (1) freestanding sign for each road frontage, provided it does
not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area. It shall not extend beyond a
vertical plane two (2) feet inside the lot from the road right-of-way line and
shall not exceed a height of thirty-five (35) feet.
      4.   Shopping center identification signs, provided they are separate and
not attached to any building. There shall be a maximum of two (2) such signs
for any one (1) shopping center. The height of signs shall be a maximum of
thirty-five (35) feet measured from the ground, and the maximum size of the
sign portion itself shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
   C.   Off-premises billboards and advertising sign boards may be erected and
maintained by special exception, provided the total display area of any sign
shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in area. Each such sign shall
not be placed less than five hundred (500) feet apart or within five hundred
(500) feet of existing billboards or advertising sign boards. No sign or
portion thereof shall be located closer than twenty-five (25) feet to the road
right-of-way and shall not exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height. Any
electrically activated changeable sign shall also comply with §
1608.
   D.   Signs as permitted in §1604 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1608. Electrically Activated Changeable Signs and Electronic Reader Boards/
Message Centers.
Electrically activated changeable signs and electronic reader boards/message
centers may be erected and maintained in the General Commercial and Industrial
Districts by special exception; and as accessory uses to institutional uses in
any zoning district, provided that:
   A.   No electrically activated changeable sign or electronic reader board/
message center shall be placed in such a position, or have such a source of
illumination, that it will cause any danger to pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
   B.   Except as noted below, electrically activated changeable signs and
electronic reader boards/message centers may not contain any flashing, pulsing,
scrolling or moving lights, text or graphics, or any full-motion video.
   C.   When approved as a special exception by the zoning hearing board,
electrically activated changeable signs and electronic reader boards/message
centers, may also contain electrically activated, patterned illusionary
movement (animation) as defined in this Chapter. As part of its approval, the
Zoning Hearing Board may attach whatever conditions it deems necessary (a) to
maintain the character of the neighborhood in which the sign is located and (b)
to mitigate any negative impacts on neighboring properties and/or uses.
   D.   Change Interval. Electrically activated changeable signs and electronic
reader boards/message centers must provide a minimum change interval of at
least five (5) seconds. A change interval is defined as the time period in
which the display of an electronic sign must remain static and during which the
display may not transition to display another image.
   E.   Transition Interval. Electrically activated changeable signs and
electronic reader boards/message centers must provide a maximum transition
interval of one (1) second. The "transition interval" is defined as the time
period in which the display of an electronic sign transitions to another
display.
   F.   On-premises electrically activated changeable signs and electronic
reader boards/message centers shall not be illuminated more than one-half hour
before the time at which the premises is open to the public or more than one-
half hour after the time at which the premises is closed to the public, or 11:
00 p.m., whichever is later, unless a special exception to allow longer hours
is granted by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   G.   The changeable portion of an electrically activated changeable sign or
electronic reader board/message center other than a billboard shall not exceed
an area of thirty-two (32) square feet, unless a special exception to allow a
larger area is granted by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   H.   The display may only be used to advertise goods and services sold on-
premises, time and temperature, and public service announcements.
   I.   No electrically activated changeable sign or electronic reader board/
message center shall be permitted on any residential lot.
   J.   Any premises with an electrically activated changeable sign or
electronic reader board/message center shall not be permitted to have any other
freestanding sign on the property.
   K.   Video is prohibited.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
§ 1609. Nonconforming Signs.
Any sign erected, constructed, replaced, altered, enlarged, or relocated before
the effective date of this Chapter that would not otherwise be permitted under
the terms of this Chapter may remain and continue to be used, maintained and
repaired provided:
   A.   A nonconforming sign shall not be replaced, altered, relocated, or
reconstructed except to bring the sign into total compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   A nonconforming sign may be used, maintained and repaired subject to
the following requirements:
      1.   Maintenance and repair of a nonconforming sign is permitted when
said activities are necessary to maintain the sign in a presentable, functional
condition. Maintenance and repair activities shall not include alterations,
relocation or reconstruction but may include: replacement of defective parts,
painting, repainting, cleaning and other acts required for the maintenance of
said sign. Prior to the removal of a nonconforming sign for maintenance, repair
or message change, a permit shall be secured from the Zoning Officer. Said
permit shall allow the applicant to re-erect the repaired or re-messaged
nonconforming sign within thirty (30) days of issuance. If the nonconforming
sign is not erected within the specified time, it shall lose its nonconforming
status and any successive sign shall conform with all applicable Chapter
requirements.
      2.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the change in advertising,
identifying, or directional message of a nonconforming sign so long as the
change does not involve any alterations, relocation or reconstruction of the
nonconforming sign. Message changes of a nonconforming sign that are a result
of a transfer in ownership of the premises on which the principal use is
located, excluding contract advertising signs, shall be prohibited and any
successive sign shall conform to the Chapter requirements. If the message
change requires removal of the sign, a permit shall be secured as in the above
sub-section.
      3.   A nonconforming sign, which has been damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, accident, or calamity, to an extent which is greater than fifty (50)
percent of the sign or sign value, may not be repaired except in compliance
with the provisions of this Chapter. A nonconforming sign which has sustained
less than fifty (50) percent damage of the sign or sign value may be repaired
provided:
         a.   The repaired sign is virtually unchanged, except for building
materials and message, or is less nonconforming than the original sign; and
         b.   Repair is completed within sixty (60) days from the date of
damage. Failure to repair within sixty (60) days shall result in the loss of
nonconforming sign rights and any successive sign shall conform with all
applicable Chapter requirements.
      4.   When a nonconforming sign has been demolished or destroyed by
deterioration or removal, or has been moved from its location for reasons other
than for an approved repair, maintenance or a change in message, said sign
shall not be reconstructed or replaced except in complete conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   A nonconforming sign which pertains to a time, event, purpose or use
which no longer applies, has been abandoned or changed, shall be removed by the
owner of the sign or the owner of the premises on which the sign is located.
   D.   Proposed signs that are associated with a nonconforming use shall
conform to the regulations of the district in which the sign is located.
(Ord. 10-11-17, 10/11/2017)
Part 17
Building Permits and Certificates of Zoning Compliance
§ 1701. Administration and Enforcement.
An administrative official designated by the Township Supervisors shall
administer and enforce this Chapter. He may be provided with the assistance of
such other person as the Township Supervisors may direct.
If the administrative official shall find that any of the provisions of this
Chapter are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible
for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of
land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or
of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
Chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.01)
§ 1702. Building Permits Required.
No building or other structure shall be erected, constructed, moved, added to,
altered, nor the use therein changed without a permit therefor issued by the
administrative official except in conformity with the provisions of this
Chapter, unless he receives a written order from the Zoning Hearing Board in
the form of an administrative review, Special Exception, or variance as
provided by this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.02)
§ 1703. Application for Zoning Permit.
   1.   Application for Zoning Permit. The application for a zoning permit
shall be submitted in such form as the Zoning Administrator may prescribe by
the owner or lessee of any building, structure or land or the agent of either,
provided, however, that if the application is made by a person other than the
owner or lessee, the applicant shall demonstrate that the application has
authorization from the owner or lessee to make such application. The full name
and address of the applicant and the landowner, if different, shall be stated
on the application. If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses
of the officers of the corporation shall be included on the application. If the
applicant is requesting a reasonable accommodation under the United States Fair
Housing Amendments Act of 1988 or the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
applicant shall identify the disability which is protected by such statutes,
the extent of the modification of the provisions of this Chapter necessary for
a reasonable accommodation, and the manner by which the reasonable
accommodation requested may be removed when such person with a protected
disability no longer will be present on the property.
   2.   Description of the Work. The application shall contain a description of
the proposed work and/or use and occupancy of the building, structure and/or
land and any other information required by the Zoning Administrator to
determine compliance with this Chapter and other applicable Township and County
ordinances, statutes and regulations. The application shall be accompanied by
plans in a form acceptable to the Zoning Administrator, drawn to scale, showing
the actual dimensions and shape of the lot, the size and location and
dimensions of the proposed use, building or alteration, distance from existing
lot lines and street right-of-way lines, parking areas, and other pertinent
information. The application shall be accompanied by all required fees as
established by the Board of Supervisors by ordinance or resolution.
   3.   Approval or Disapproval of Application. Upon receipt of the
application, the Zoning Administrator shall examine the application and
supporting information to determine compliance with this Chapter and other
applicable Township and County ordinances, statutes and regulations. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine if subdivision and/or land development approval
has been obtained, if State sanitation inspection requirements have been met,
and, in the case of public buildings, the required permits have been issued by
the Department of Labor and Industry. No zoning permit shall be issued unless
the applicant presents the Zoning Administrator with proof that any applicable
subdivision and/or land development approval has been granted, a sewage permit
has been issued by the Township Sewage Enforcement Officer for the lot, a
driveway permit under the Township Driveway Ordinance or a PENNDOT Highway
Occupancy Permit has been issued in order that access may be gained to the lot,
and all other required Township approvals and permits have been granted or
issued. The Zoning Administrator shall mark the application as either approved
or disapproved. The Zoning Administrator shall retain a copy of the application
for the Township files. If disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall forward
a statement to the application explaining the reasons for such disapproval and
informing the applicant of his right to appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board.
   4.   Issuance and Posting of Permits. Upon approval of the application by
the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit
and a placard which placard shall be visibly posted on the site of operations
during the entire time of construction.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.03; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 22)
§ 1704. Certificates of Zoning Compliance for New, Altered, or Nonconforming
Uses.
   1.   It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of
any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, if
erected, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use of
structure until a Certificate of Zoning Compliance has been issued by the
administrative official stating that the proposed use of the building or land
conforms to this Chapter.
   2.   No nonconforming structure or use shall be maintained, renewed,
changed, or extended until a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall have been
issued by the administrative official. The Certificate of Zoning Compliance
shall state specifically wherein the nonconforming use differs from the
provisions of this Chapter. Upon enactment or amendment of this Chapter, owners
or occupants of nonconforming uses or structures shall apply for Certificates
of Zoning Compliance.
   3.   No permits for erection, alteration, moving, or repair of any building
shall be issued until an application has been made for a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance, and the certificate shall be issued in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter upon completion of the work.
   4.   A temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance may be issued by the
administrative official for a period not to exceed six (6) months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion. Such
temporary Certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as will
protect the safety of the occupants and public.
   5.   The administrative official shall maintain a record of all Certificates
of Zoning Compliance and a copy shall be furnished upon request of any person.
   6.   Failure to obtain a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be a
violation of this Chapter and punishable under §
2005 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.04)
§ 1705. Temporary Use Permits.
It is recognized that it may be in accordance with the purpose of this Chapter
to permit temporary activities for a limited period of time, which activities
may be prohibited by other provisions of this Chapter. If such uses are of such
a nature and are so located that, at the time of petition of Special Exception
they will:
   A.   In no way exert a detrimental effect upon the uses of land and
activities normally permitted in the zone, or
   B.   Contribute materially to the welfare of the Township, particularly in a
state of emergency, under conditions peculiar to the time and place involved,
then the Zoning Hearing Board may, subject to all regulations for the issuance
of Special Exceptions elsewhere specified, direct the Zoning Officer to issue a
permit for a period not to exceed six (6) months. Such permits may be extended
not more than once for an additional period of six (6) months.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.05)
§ 1706. Expiration of Building Permit.
   1.   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within
ninety (90) days from the issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall
be cancelled by the administrative official; and written notice thereof shall
be given to the persons affected.
   2.   If the work described in any building permit has not been substantially
completed within two (2) years of the date of issuance thereof, said permit
shall expire and be cancelled by the administrative official, and written
notice that future work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed
unless and until a new building permit has been obtained.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.06)
§ 1707. Construction and Use to be Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits,
and Certificates of Zoning Compliance.
Building permits or Certificates of Zoning Compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the administrative official authorize only
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approval plans and
applications. No changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans submitted with the application without the written approval
of the Zoning Officer. Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter and punishable as
provided by §
2005 hereof.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, § 17.07)
Part 18
Zoning Hearing Board; Establishment and Procedure
§ 1801. Establishment And Membership.
   1.   There shall be a Zoning Hearing Board which shall consist of three
members who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Membership of the Zoning Hearing Board shall consist of residents of
the Township. Their terms of office shall be three (3) years and shall be so
fixed that the term of office of no more than one member shall expire each
year. The Zoning Hearing Board shall promptly notify the Board of Supervisors
of any vacancies that occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for
the unexpired portion of the term. Members of the Zoning Hearing Board shall
hold no other office in the Township. Any member of the Zoning Hearing Board
may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office or for
other just cause by a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors taken after the
member has received a fifteen (15) day advance notice of the intent to take
such a vote. A hearing shall be held in connection with the vote if the member
shall request it in writing. The Board of Supervisors may appoint by resolution
at least one but no more than three (3) residents of the municipality to serve
as alternate members of the Board. The terms of office of an alternate member
shall be three (3) years. When seated pursuant to the provisions of §
1802, an alternate shall be entitled to participate in all proceedings and
discussions of the Board to the same and full extent as provided by law for
Board members, including specifically the right to cast a vote as a voting
member during the proceedings, and shall have all the powers and duties set
forth in this act and as otherwise provided by law. Alternates shall hold no
other office in the Township, including membership on the Planning Commission
and Zoning Officer. Any alternate may participate in any proceeding or
discussion of the Board but shall not be entitled to vote as a member of the
Board nor be compensated pursuant to §
1803 unless designated as a voting alternate member pursuant to §
1802 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 18; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 23)
§ 1802. Organization.
The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who shall serve
annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any hearing
and the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less than a majority of all
members of the Board, but the Board may appoint a hearing officer from its own
membership to conduct any hearing on its behalf and the parties may waive
further action by the Board as provided in § 2204. If, by reason of absence or
disqualification of a member, a quorum is not reached, the chairman of the
Board shall designate as many alternate members of the Board to sit on the
Board in all proceedings involving the matter or case for which the alternate
was initially appointed until the Board has made a final determination of the
matter or case. Designation of an alternate pursuant to this section shall be
made on a case-by-case basis in rotation according to declining seniority among
all alternates. The Board may make, alter, and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with Ordinances of the Township and laws of the
Commonwealth. The Board shall keep full public records of its business, which
records shall be the property of the Township, and shall submit a report of its
activities to the Board of Supervisors upon request.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 18; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 23)
§ 1803. Expenditures For Services.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors may prescribe reasonable fees with respect to
hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board. Fees for said hearings may include
compensation for the secretary and members of the Zoning Hearing Board, notice
and advertising costs and necessary administrative overhead connected with the
hearing. The costs, however, shall not include legal expenses of the Zoning
Hearing Board, expenses for engineering, architectural or other technical
consultants or expert witness costs.
   2.   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the Board of Supervisors,
the Zoning Hearing Board may employ or contract for secretaries, clerks, legal
counsel, consultants and other technical and clerical services. Members of the
Board may receive compensation for the performance of their duties, as may be
fixed by the Board of Supervisors. Alternate members of the Board may receive
compensation, as may be fixed by the Board of Supervisors, for the performance
of their duties when designated as alternate members pursuant to §
1802. In no case shall the compensation paid to members of the Board or any
alternate members exceed the rate of compensation authorized to be paid to the
members by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 18; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 23)
§ 1804. Hearings.
The Zoning Hearing Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in
accordance with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, Act of July 3, 1968, as amended and reenacted, as well as the following
requirements:
   A.   Public notice shall be given and written notice shall be given to the
applicant, the Zoning Officer, such other persons as the Township Board of
Supervisors shall designate by ordinance and to any person who has made timely
request for the same. Written notices shall be given at such time and in such
manner as shall be prescribed by ordinance, or in the absence of Ordinance
provision, by rules of the Zoning Hearing Board. In addition to the written
notice provided herein, written notice of said hearing shall be conspicuously
posted on the affected tract of land at least one (1) week prior to the
hearing.
   B.   All persons who wish to be considered parties to a hearing shall enter
their appearance on forms provided by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   C.   Every person who requests a hearing before the Zoning Hearing Board
shall submit a fully completed application to the Zoning Officer or the Zoning
Hearing Board on the form prescribed by the Zoning Hearing Board. The Zoning
Officer shall reject all incomplete applications. The date of an Applicant's
request shall be the date when a fully completed Application accompanied by the
appropriate fee is submitted to and received by the Zoning Officer.
   D.   All requests for a continuance of a scheduled hearing shall be
submitted in writing with the reasons therefor and shall contain a statement
that the Applicant agrees to an extension of time period, within which the
Zoning Hearing Board is required to hold a hearing or to render a written
decision. No more than two (2) continuances shall be permitted unless the party
requesting the continuance pays the fee prescribed by the Board of Supervisors
pursuant to resolution.
   E.   The Zoning Hearing Board or the hearing officer shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or hearing officer; or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Zoning Hearing Board if such appeal is made, and in either
event the cost of additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such
copy or copies. In other cases, the party requesting the original transcript
shall bear the costs.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 18; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 23)
§ 1805. Effect of Zoning Hearing Board's Decision.
The following time requirements and conditions shall apply to approvals granted
by the Zoning Hearing Board:
   A.   Permit Period.
      (1)    The applicant or appellant shall secure all necessary zoning and
building permits within two (2) years after the approval date of the variance,
special exception, or other action of approval by the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (2)    The Zoning Hearing Board may grant an extension of the two (2)
year permit period provided that the applicant or appellant has demonstrated
good cause in a written application to the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (3)   Should the applicant or appellant fail to obtain all necessary
zoning permits within the time limitations of this Section, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the appellant or applicant has waived, withdrawn, or
abandoned the appeal or application, and all provisions, variances, special
exceptions and Zoning Permits granted shall be deemed automatically rescinded
by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   B.   Construction Period.
      (1)    The applicant or appellant shall complete the building,
alteration, or use within two (2) years after a Zoning Permit has been issued.
      (2)    The Zoning Hearing Board may grant an extension of the two (2)
year construction period provided that the applicant or appellant has
demonstrated good cause in a written application to the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (3)    Should the applicant or appellant fail to complete such
construction, alteration, or use within the time limitations of this Section,
the Zoning Hearing Board may rescind or revoke the granted variance, special
exception, or Zoning Permit. The Zoning Officer shall provide the applicant or
appellant with a written notice at least ten (10) days prior to such decision
of the Zoning Hearing Board. The decision to rescind or revoke such approvals
shall be based on one or more of the following findings of the Zoning Hearing
Board:
         (a)   That there is no good cause for the failure to complete such
construction, alteration, or use within the required time.
         (b)   That conditions have so changed since the approval of the Zoning
Permit that revocation of the action is justified.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 18; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 23)
Part 19
Zoning Hearing Board; Powers and Duties
§ 1901. Appeals from the Zoning Officer.
   1.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and decide the following appeals:
      A.   Appeals in which it is alleged by the appellant that the Zoning
Officer has failed to follow prescribed procedures or has misinterpreted or
misapplied any provision of a valid ordinance or map or any valid rule or
regulation governing the action of the Zoning Officer.
      B.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application therefore, the issuance of any cease and desist order or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure or lot.
      C.   Appeals from the Zoning Officer's determination of a preliminary
opinion pursuant to Article IX, Section 916.2 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code;
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1902. Substantive Challenges to the Validity of the Zoning Ordinance.
The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear substantive challenges to the validity of
the Zoning Ordinance, except those brought before the Board of Supervisors.
   A.   If a challenge heard by the Zoning Hearing Board is found to have
merit, the decision of the Zoning Hearing Board shall include recommended
amendments to the challenged Zoning Ordinance which will cure the defects
found. In reaching its decision, the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider the
amendments, plans and explanatory material submitted by the applicant and shall
also consider;
      (1)    The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools and other public service facilities;
      (2)    If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the
proposal upon regional housing needs, and the effectiveness of the proposal in
providing housing units of a type actually available to, and affordable by,
classes of persons otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions
of the Zoning Ordinance or map;
      (3)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed by
the site's soils, slopes, woodland, wetlands, flood plains, aquifers, natural
resources and other natural features;
      (4)    The impact of the proposed use on the site's soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, natural resources and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development and any adverse environmental impacts; and
      (5)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture and
other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
   B.   The Zoning Hearing Board, shall render its decision within forty-five
(45) days after the conclusion of the last hearing. If the Zoning Board fails
to act on the applicant's request within this time limit, a denial of the
request is deemed to have occurred on the forty-sixth (46th) day after the
close of the last hearing.
   C.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall commence its hearings within sixty (60)
days after the request is filed unless the applicant requests or consents to an
extension of time.
   D.   Public notice of the hearing shall be provided as specified in §
1804(1) of this Chapter.
   E.   Challenges to the validity of the Zoning Ordinance, raising procedural
questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or adoption which
challenges, shall be raised by an appeal taken within thirty (30) days after
the effective day of the Ordinance.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1903. Variances.
   1.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for variances where it is
alleged that the provisions of this Chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon
the applicant. The Zoning Hearing Board may grant a variance upon a finding
that the applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code
regarding the granting of variances have been met by the applicant. In granting
any variance the Board may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards as
it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of the MPC and this Chapter.
   2.   All applicants for a variance shall submit the following:
      A.   Statement describing the proposed use.
      B.   A location map showing the entire tract and its relation to the
surrounding area drawn at a scale of one thousand (1,000) feet to the inch.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1904. Special Exceptions.
   1.   General. Special exceptions are deemed to be uses that may be allowed
in their respective districts subject to the satisfaction of the requirements
and standards set forth in this Part, in addition to all other requirements of
this Chapter. All such uses are hereby declared to possess characteristics of
such unique and special forms that each specific use shall be considered as an
individual case. Before any special exception shall be granted, the Zoning
Hearing Board shall review the proposed special exception in accordance with
the following requirements and criteria and satisfy itself that they have been
met in addition to any other requirements necessary to fulfill the objectives
of this Chapter. The Zoning Hearing Board may attach such reasonable conditions
and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of and insure
compliance with the MPC and this Chapter, which conditions may include
plantings and buffers, harmonious designs of buildings and the elimination of
noxious, offensive or hazardous elements.
   2.   Plan Required. The applicant shall submit a site plan, the number of
copies of which shall be established by the Board, at a sufficient scale and at
a sufficient level of detail to demonstrate compliance with all applicable
requirements drawn to a scale of not more than one hundred (100) feet to the
inch and which shall include all of the following:
      A.   The location of all existing floodplains, watercourses, railroads,
areas of subsidence, wooded areas (marking all wooded areas to be cleared),
bridges, culverts, and other significant natural features on the tract and
within two hundred (200) feet of the tract.
      B.   The location of all streets, adjoining tracts, and buildings within
two hundred (200) feet of the tract.
      C.   The location of all proposed land uses including residential uses by
types.
      D.   Size and intensity of use data, including the number of residential
or commercial lots, lot sizes, the number and types of dwelling units, and the
density per acre of each type of dwelling unit.
      E.   The location and arrangement of all open spaces and yards,
landscaping, fences and buffer yards, including the methods and materials to be
employed for screening.
      F.   The location, size (numbers shown), arrangement and capacity of all
areas to be used for motor vehicle access, off-street parking, off-street
loading and unloading, and provisions to be made for lighting such areas.
      G.   The dimensions (numbers shown), location and methods of illumination
for signs and exterior lighting.
      H.   The location and dimensions of sidewalks and all other common areas.
      I.   If applicable, a description of any proposed industrial or
commercial operation in sufficient detail to indicate the effects of those
operations in producing noise, glare, air pollution, water pollution, fire
hazards, traffic congestion or other safety hazards.
      J.   Provisions to be made for the treatment and disposal of sewage and
industrial wastes and for water supply.
      K.   Site contours at two (2) foot intervals.
      L.   All proposed site grading and drainage provisions and proposals.
Zoning districts and applicable area, bulk, and yard requirements.
Certification by the person who prepared the site plan.
      M.   Zoning districts and applicable area, bulk, and yard requirements.
      N.   Certification by the person who prepared the site plan.
      O.   Certification of ownership and acknowledgment of plans signed by
owner and developer.
   2.   General Standards. In order for the Zoning Hearing Board to grant a
special exception, the applicant shall demonstrate all of the following. The
burden of proof shall rest with the applicant.
      A.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence compliance with
all conditions on the special exception enumerated in the Section which gives
the applicant the right to seek the special exception.
      B.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
special exception shall be properly serviced by all existing public service
systems. The peak traffic generated by the subject of the approval shall be
accommodated in a safe and efficient manner or improvements made in order to
effect the same. The applicant shall have similar responsibilities with respect
to other public service systems including but not limited to police protection,
fire protection, utilities, parks and recreation.
      C.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
special exception shall be in and of itself properly designed with regard to
internal circulation, parking, buffering, and all other elements of proper
design as specified in this Chapter and any other governing law or regulation.
      D.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
use shall not substantially change the character of the subject property's
neighborhood and shall meet the requirements of the district in which it lies.
      E.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that adequate
public facilities are available and existing to serve the proposed use (e.g.,
schools, fire, police and ambulance protection, sewer, water and other
utilities, parks, vehicular access, recreation, and etc.).
      F.   For development within the Floodplain Districts, the applicant shall
establish by credible evidence that the application complied with those
requirements listed in
Chapter 8 of the Code of Ordinances and the necessity of the development to be
located in the floodplain.
      G.   The applicant shall establish by credible evidence that the proposed
use of the site complies with the requirements of any other public agency
having jurisdiction over the proposed use.
      H.   For all lands located in the Agricultural District or adjacent to
the Agricultural District, the applicant shall establish by credible evidence
that the proposed use of the site or development shall not be inconsistent with
or frustrate the legislative intent of the Agricultural District.
      I.   The applicant shall provide the Board with sufficient plans, studies
or other data to demonstrate compliance with all applicable regulations.
      J.   The proposed special exception shall not substantially injure or
detract from the use of neighboring property or from the character of the
neighborhood and that the use of property adjacent to the area included in the
special exception application is adequately safeguarded.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1905. Appeals Regarding the Floodplain Zone.
Appeals from a determination by a municipal engineer or the Zoning Officer with
reference to the administration of any provisions contained within the
Floodplain Zone.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1906. Appeals Regarding Development Rights and Density.
Appeals from the determination of any officer or agency charged with the
administration of any transfers of development rights or performance density
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1907. Appeals Regarding Sedimentation and Erosion Control and Storm Water
Management.
Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or municipal engineer in
the administration of any land use ordinance with reference to sedimentation
and erosion control, and/or stormwater management for applications not
involving a subdivision/land development, nor a planned residential development
as regulated in Articles V and VII of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1908. Appeals from a Notice of Violation Issued under Part 17 of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as added by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1909. Parties Appellant Before Zoning Hearing Board.
   1.   Appeals and proceedings to challenge any provision under this Chapter
may be filed with the Zoning Hearing Board in writing by the landowner
affected, by any officer or agency of the Township, or any person aggrieved.
Requests for a variance and for a special exception under this Chapter may be
filed with the Zoning Hearing Board by any landowner. An appeal or request
shall state:
      A.   The name and address of the applicant.
      B.   The name and address of the owner of the real estate to be affected
by the proposed special exception, or variance.
      C.   A brief description and location of the real estate to be affected
by such proposed change.
      D.   A statement of the present zoning classification of the real estate
in question, the improvements thereon, and the present use thereon.
      E.   A statement of the section of this Ordinance under which the
variance, or special exception is requested, may be allowed, and reasons why it
should be granted.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art, 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1910. Time Limitations.
No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding with the Zoning Hearing Board
later than thirty (30) days after any application for development, preliminary
or final, has been approved by the Board of Supervisors, if such proceeding is
designed to secure reversal or to limit the approval in any manner, unless such
person alleges and proves that he had no notice or knowledge, or reason to
believe that such approval had been given. If such person has succeeded to his
interest after such approval, he shall be bound by the knowledge of his
predecessor in interest.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
§ 1911. Stay Of Proceedings.
Upon the filing of any proceeding referred to in this Part and during its
pendency before the Zoning Hearing Board, all land development pursuant to any
challenged ordinance, order or approval of the Zoning Officer, or of any agency
or body, and all official action thereunder, shall be stayed unless the Zoning
Hearing Board determines there are facts indicating that such stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property; in which case, the development or official
action shall not be stayed, otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be
granted by the Zoning Hearing Board or by the court having jurisdiction of
zoning appeals on petition after notice to the Zoning Officer or other
appropriate agency or body. When an application for development, preliminary or
final, has been duly approved and proceedings designed to reverse or limit the
approval are filed with the Zoning Hearing Board, by persons other than the
applicant, the applicant may petition the court having jurisdiction of zoning
appeals to order such persons to post bond as a condition to continuing the
proceedings before the Zoning Hearing Board. The question whether or not such
petition should be granted and the amount of the bond shall be within the sound
discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 19; as amended by Ord. 10-10-01, 10/10/2001, § 24)
Part 20
Administrative Matters
§ 2001. Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses.
   1.   The Township Supervisors shall establish a schedule of fees, charges,
and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, Certificates of
Zoning Compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this Chapter. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrative official,
and may be altered or amended only by the Township Supervisors.
   2.   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or application of appeal.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 22)
§ 2002. Amendments.
   1.   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this Chapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed provided,
however, that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto by the Township Supervisors, at which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fourteen (14) days
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the Township at least once in each of two (2)
successive weeks.
   2.   If the amendment is initiated by any party other than the municipal
planning agency or county planning agency, the governing body shall submit each
amendment to the municipal planning agency and/or county planning agency at
least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment to
provide these agencies with an opportunity to submit recommendations. If after
any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed amendment is revised,
or further revised to include land previously not affected by it, the governing
body shall hold another public hearing, pursuant to public notice, before
proceeding to vote on the amendment.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 23)
§ 2003. Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this
Chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the most
restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 24)
§ 2004. Complaints Regarding Violations.
Whenever a violation of this Chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrative official. He
shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action
thereon as provided by this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 25)
§ 2005. Violations.
The construction, alteration, maintenance or use of any structure, building,
sign, land, or landscaping or the change of use, area of use, percentage of use
or displacement of the use of any structure, building, sign, land or
landscaping without first obtaining a permit; or the use of any building,
structure, sign or land without receipt of a certificate of use and occupancy;
or the use or maintenance of any building, structure, sign or land for a use or
in a manner which is not in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; or
the use of property for a use different from that set forth in any zoning or
certificate of zoning compliance which has been granted for the property
without applying for and being granted a permit and certificate of zoning
compliance for such new or different use; or the excavation, grading of or
earthmoving activities on any property in preparation for the erection of a
structure or change in use of a property without first obtaining a permit; or
the failure to comply with any other provision of this Chapter; or the
violation of any conditions imposed upon the grant of a special exception or
variance by the Zoning Hearing Board or a conditional use by the Board of
Supervisors or by a court of competent jurisdiction if a special exception,
variance or conditional use is granted by such court are hereby declared to be
violations of this Chapter. The owner or tenant of any land or structure or
parts thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, assists in or maintains a violation shall also be considered to have
violated this Chapter and shall be subject to penalties and remedies for such
violation.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 26; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2006. Enforcement Notice.
If it appears to the Zoning Administrator that a violation of this Chapter
shall exist, the Zoning Administrator shall send an enforcement notice to the
owner of record of the lot on which the violation has occurred, to any person
who has filed a written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that
lot, to any other person requested in writing by the owner of record, and to
any person against whom the Township may bring an enforcement action. The
enforcement notice shall contain the name of the owner of record and any other
persons against whom the Township may take action, the location of the property
in violation, the specific violation with a description of the requirements
which have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of
this Chapter, the date before which steps for compliance must be commenced and
that date before which the steps must be completed, that the recipient of the
enforcement notice has the right to appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board within
thirty (30) days, and that a failure to comply with the notice within the time
specified, unless extended by an appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board,
constitutes a violation with sanctions as provided in this Chapter.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2007. Enforcement Action.
If the enforcement notice is not complied with promptly, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors
may request the Township Solicitor to institute in the name of the Township any
appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such violation or to require the removal or termination of the
unlawful use of the structure, building, sign, landscaping or land in violation
of the provisions of this Chapter or the order or direction made pursuant
thereto. The Board of Supervisors may also direct the Zoning Administrator or
Township Solicitor to institute a civil enforcement proceeding before a
district justice.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2008. Penalties.
Any person who or which has violated or permitted the violation of the
provisions of this Chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the Township, pay a judgment of not more
than Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars plus all court costs, including the
reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Township as a result thereof. No
judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or be payable until the date of
the determination of a violation by the district justice. If the defendant
neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the Township may enforce the
judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation, unless a district
justice determining that there has been a violation further determines that
there was a good faith basis for the person violating this Chapter to have
believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed
to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of
the determination of a violation by the district justice, and thereafter each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. All
judgments, costs and reasonable attorneys' fees collected for the violation of
this Chapter shall be paid over to the Township for the general use of the
Township.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2009. Remedies.
In case any building, structure, sign or landscaping is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building,
structure, sign or land is used; or any hedge, shrub, tree, or other growth is
maintained in violation of this Chapter or of any of the regulations made
pursuant thereto or any of the permits or certificates of use and occupancy or
certificates of use issued under this Chapter; or any conditions imposed upon
the grant of a special exception or variance by the Zoning Hearing Board or
upon the grant of a conditional use by the Board of Supervisors, then in
addition to any other remedies provided by law, any appropriate action or
proceeding may be instituted or taken to prevent or restrain such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance or use or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in
and about such premises.
(Ord. 7/8/1978; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2010. Separability Clause.
Should any Section or provision of this Chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
Chapter as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 27; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
§ 2011. Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances; Effective Date.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Zoning Chapter, or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter, are here repealed to the
extent necessary to give the Chapter full force and effect. This Chapter shall
become effective on July 13, 1978.
(Ord. 7/8/1978, Art. 28; as amended by Ord. 91102, 9/11/2002, § 8)
Zoning Map Amendments
 
Ord.            Date       Subject
                           Amending the Official Zoning Map of South Annville
                           Township to reflect the change in terminology
Ord. 5-9-2012   5/9/2012   regarding the Floodplain Districts. The current F1 -
                           Approximated Flood Plain shall be renamed to SFHA -
                           Zone A. The current F2 Floodway and F3 - Flood
                           Fringe shall be renamed to SFHA - Zone AE.
                           Amend the Zoning Ordinance by changing the
                           classification of tracts of land with frontage on
                           the west side of Mount Pleasant Road and the south
Ord. 10-10-12-1 10/10/2012 side of West Main Street (SR 0422) containing a
                           total of 116 acres, more or less, from their present
                           classification of Agricultural District to a New
                           Classification of C-1 General Commercial District.
                           Amend the Zoning Ordinance by changing the
                           classification of two tracts of land south of West
Ord. 9-8-21-1   9/8/2021   Main Street (SR 0422) containing a total of 42
                           acres, more or less, from their present
                           classification of C-1 General Commercial District to
                           I Industrial District.
 
 
APPENDIX
The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical interest, it has not been
considered necessary to include their entire text. Instead, they are arranged
in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group listed by title
in chronological order. The content of the ordinances and resolutions is
indexed, in all necessary detail, in the general index at the end of this
volume. The annual budget and tax ordinances have been listed only in the "Key
to the Disposition of Ordinances." Any person who desires to read the full text
of any of the ordinances or resolutions may do so by consulting the original
Ordinance Books on file in the Township Offices.
The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
   
A   Bond Issues and Loans
   
B   Franchises and Services
   
C    Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
   
D   Plan Approval
   
E    Public Property
   
F   Sewers
   
G   Streets and Sidewalks
   
H   Water
   
I    Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Appendix A
Bond Issues and Loans
 
Ord./Res.  Date       Subject
                      Determining to incur debt in the maximum principal amount
                      of $3,795,679; determining that such debt shall be
                      incurred as lease rental debt to be evidenced by a
11-18-10-1 11/18/2010 guaranteed sewer revenue note, in the maximum principal
                      amount of $3,795,679, to be dated as of the date of
                      delivery and to be authorized and issued by South
                      Annville Township, Lebanon County, Authority
                      Increasing the indebtedness of South Annville Township,
8-8-12     8/8/2012   Lebanon County, by the issue of a general obligation note
                      in the maximum principal amount of $350,000.00 for
                      purposes of making improvements to Township streets
                      Incurring debt in the maximum principal amount of
                      $3,571,822.97; determining that such debt shall be
7-9-14     7/9/2014   incurred as lease rental debt to be evidenced by a debt
                      obligation, dated March 3, 2011, as modified by that
                      certain modification of debt obligation and other funding
                      documents
                     
 
Appendix B
Franchises and Services
 
Ord./Res. Date       Subject
                     Granting to Comcast of Southeast Pennsylvania, Inc, and to
                     the Comcast of the South, Inc., a nonexclusive franchise
111203    11/12/2003 to erect, install, maintain and operate a cable system in
                     the Township, including permission to erect, install and
                     maintain poles and wires for the purpose of transmission
                     for a 10-year term.
                     Authorizing the execution of a franchise agreement between
10-9-13-1 10/9/2013  the Township and Comcast of Southeast Pennsylvania, LLC,
                     and Comcast of the South, Inc.
                    
 
Appendix C
Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./   Date   Subject
Res.
Agrmt.  6/2/   Regarding Police services to be provided by South Londonderry
6/2/    1975   Township
1975
Agrmt.  6/8/   Regarding mutual aid agreement for fire services with South
6/8/    1985   Londonderry Township.
1985
Res. 9/ 9/1/   Declaring and accepting an Agricultural Area in the Township
1/1990  1990   pursuant to the Agricultural Security Law, 3 P.S. §§ 901-915.
Res.           Recognizing the adoption of the "CABO One and Two Family
91-     6/9/   Dwelling Code" on behalf of certain municipalities by the
060991  1991   County of Lebanon and authorizing the appropriate officials of
               the County to enforce said Code within the Township.
               Implementing an agreement between the Township of South
               Annville, the County of Lebanon and the Commonwealth of
94-     7/13/  Pennsylvania to provide mutual aid and assistance in drug
71394   1994   investigations of the Lebanon County Drug Task Force and
               establishing procedures for such aid and assistance between one
               another.
               Implementing an agreement involving the Township of South
               Annville, the County of Lebanon and the Commonwealth of
71394-2 7/13/  Pennsylvania to provide mutual aid and assistance in drug
        1994   investigations of the Lebanon County Drug Task Force and
               establishing procedures for such aid and assistance between one
               another.
               Authorizing South Annville Township to enter into an
6-28-   6/28/  intermunicipal agreement to provide the formation of the
04-2    2004   Lebanon County Code Appeals Board or the establishment of
               related administrative requirements, in accordance with the
               provisions of the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code.
               Providing for South Annville Township to enter into an
        6/11/  intermunicipal agreement with other municipalities within the
6-11-08 2008   Annville-Cleona School District for the purpose of selecting a
               representative and alternate for the Executive Committee of the
               Lebanon County Earned Income Tax Bureau.
               Authorizing this Township to enter into an intermunicipal
9-10-08 9/10/  agreement with other municipalities within Lebanon County and
        2008   with the County of Lebanon to provide for the collection of
               certain taxes.
               Authorizing execution of an intermunicipal agreement among
11-18-  11/18/ municipalities and school district within Lebanon County and
10-2    2010   the Lebanon County Earned Income Tax Bureau to settle claims
               relating to the collection and distribution of earned income
               taxes.
               Authorizing execution of an intermunicipal agreement among
        5/11/  municipalities and school district within Lebanon County and
5-11-11 2011   the Lebanon County Earned Income Tax Bureau to settle claims
               relating to the collection and distribution of earned income
               taxes.
               Authorizing Annville Township, Cleona Borough, North Annville
8-14-   8/14/  Township, South Annville Township, and the Lebanon County
13-1    2013   Planning Department to enter into an intergovernmental
               agreement to implement the Annville-Cleona Regional
               Comprehensive Plan.
        1/14/  Authorizing the participation of South Annville Township in the
1-14-15 2015   PSATS Unemployment Compensation Group Trust pursuant to the
               Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Law.
        3/14/  Authorizing the Township of North Annville and the Township of
1-2016  2016   South Annville to enter into an agreement concerning the
               maintenance of a traffic signal.
        3/9/   Authorizing the Township of North Annville and the Township of
3-9-16  2016   South Annville to enter into an agreement concerning the
               maintenance of a traffic signal.
               Authorizing the participation of the Township of South Annville
12-14-  12/14/ in the Pennsylvania Townships Health Insurance Cooperative
2016    2016   Trust Pursuant to the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
               Cooperation Law.
              
 
Appendix D
Plan Approval
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
Appendix E
Public Property
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
Appendix F
Sewers
Ord./Res. Subject
Ord./Res.      Subject
Undated        Authorizing Annville Township Authority to enter public streets
               so as to construct and maintain sanitary sewer lines.
               Adopting a plan by Lebanon County Planning Department for water
Res. 3/5/1971  supply and sewage facilities to serve South Annville Township
               residents.
               Authorizing agents of Lebanon County Planning Department to
Ord. 3/11/1975 administer and enforce Sewage Facilities Act, collect fees, make
               inspections, initiate legal actions within the Township.
Res. 6/2/1975  Adopting plan for sewage disposed at Smith's Modern A Quality
               Dairy.
               Authorizing South Annville Township and Annville Township to
Ord. 3-13-13   enter into an agreement concerning the provision of public sewer
               service.
Res. 8-13-14-1 Adopting an Official Sewage Facilities Plan.
               
 
Appendix G
Streets and Sidewalks
Activities concerning streets within the Municipality are listed hereunder the
street name as alphabetized, for ease of reference.
Street Activity Location Ordinance
Street             Activity  Location                                Ordinance
Bachman St.        Opening   From Rt. 322 to McCurdy Ave.            12/3/1973
                   Vacating  From Rt. 322 to McCurdy Ave.            --/--/
Beech St.          Opening   From S. Londonderry Township to Cul-de- 985
                             sac
Behney Dr.         Opening   From Louser Rd. to Erinn Ln.            985
Chris Ln.          Opening   From Louser Rd. to Cul-de-sac           985
College Ave.       Opening   From Royal Rd. to School House Ln.      985
College Plaza      Opening   From College Ave. to Cul-de-sac         985
Crestview Ave.     Opening   From College Ave. to Bachman Rd.        985
Elm Dr.            Opening   From Oak Dr. to Cul-de-sac              985
Erinn Ln.          Opening   From Behney Dr. to Cul-de-sac           985
Gingrich Ave.      Opening   From College Ave. to Bachman Rd.        985
Ironwood Dr.       Opening   From Valley Ln. to Cul-de-sac           985
Lake Dr.           Opening   From TR-241 to Maple Dr.                985
Lancaster St.      Opening   From Reigerts Ln. to Quittie Park Dr.   985
Maple Dr.          Opening   From Elm Dr. to Oak Dr.                 985
Mill Place         Opening   From Quittie Park Dr. to end            985
Oak Dr.            Opening   From Maple Dr. to Elm Dr.               985
Old Reigert's Lane Vacating  From New Reigert's Lane to New          2/4/1974
                             Reigert's Lane
Pearl St.          Opening   From Gingrich Ave. to School House Ave. 985
Quittie Park Dr.   Accepting From Reigert's Lane to Ridge Rd.        Res.
                   Opening   From Reigert's Lane to Ridge Rd.        985
Ridge Rd.          Accepting From Rt. 934 to Quittie Park Dr.        Res.
                   Opening   From Quittie Park Dr. to Lancaster St.  985
Rill Dr.           Opening   From TR-934 to Cul-de-sac               985
Russel St.         Opening   From Crestview Ave. to Gingrich Ave.    985
School House Ln.   Opening   From TR-934 to Pearl St.                985
Schoolhouse Plaza  Opening   From Gingrich Ave. to Cul-de-sac        985
Unnamed street     Opening   From Rt. 241 to Township line           10/10/1955
Valley Ln.         Opening   From U.S. 322 to end of paving          985
Valley View Ave.   Opening   From Louser Rd. to Russel St.           985
Woodlawn Dr.       Opening   From Mine Rd. to Cul-de-sac             985
                                                                   
 
Appendix H
Water
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
Appendix I
Zoning; Prior Ordinances
      1.   Comprehension Zoning Ordinance (Ord. 2-1975)
   A.   Amendment re: Group Foster Homes (Ord. 11/3/1975)
KEY TO DISPOSITION OF ALL ORDINANCES
Ord./Res. Date Disposition Number
Ord./Res. Date Disposition Number
          10/
10/7/1955 7/   Chapter 1   § 201
          1955
          10/
10/7/1955 7/   Appendix    G
          1955
6/1/1956  6/1/ Superseded  14
          1956 by
3/7/1958  3/7/ Repealed by 8/9/1986
          1958
          11/  Superseded
11/3/1959 3/   by          15
          1959
4/6/1962  4/6/ Chapter 6   §§ 101-102
          1962
7             Repealed by 13
2/2/1968  2/2/ Superseded  2-9-05
          1968 by
5/3/1968  5/3/ Superseded  12-14-11
          1968 by
2/7/1969  2/7/ Repealed by 8/9/1986
          1969
Res. 8/1/ 8/1/ Superseded  14
1969      1969 by
Res. 3/5/ 3/5/ Appendix    F
1971      1971
8/9/1971  8/9/ Chapter 14  §§ 101-116
          1971
3/5/1973  3/5/ Superseded  7/8/1978
          1973 by
8/6/1973  8/6/ Chapter     22
          1973
          12/
12/3/1973 3/   Appendix    G
          1973
          12/
12/3/1973 3/   Appendix    G
          1973
2/4/1974  2/4/ Appendix    G
          1974
Res. 6/2/ 6/2/ Appendix    C
1975      1975
          11/  Superseded
1-1975    3/   by          2-9-05
          1975
2-1975        Superseded  7/8/1978
               by
Agrmt. 6/ 6/2/ Appendix    C
2/1975    1975
Res. 6/2/ 6/2/ Appendix    F
1975      1975
          11/  Superseded
11/3/1975 3/   by          7/8/1978
          1975
          11/  Superseded
11/3/1975 3/   by          7/8/1978
          1975
6/7/1976  6/7/ Chapter 1   §§ 301-306
          1976
7/8/1978  7/8/ Chapter 27  §§ 101-2011
          1978
9/8/1978  9/8/ Superseded  11/8/1980
          1978 by
          10/
10-78     7/   Chapter 27  § 102
          1978
          10/
10/7/1978 7/   Repealed by 8/9/1986
          1978
          11/
11/8/1980 8/   Chapter 27  §§ 901-906
          1980
(Art. 12)     Repealed by 8/9/1986
          7/   Superseded
7/11/1981 11/  by          8/9/1986
          1981
Res. 2/   2/   Superseded
13/1982   13/  by          2-9-05
          1982
          7/
7/11/1983 11/  Chapter 13  §§ 101-111
          1983
          11/
11/2/1983 2/   Repealed by 8/9/1986
          1983
          1/   Superseded
1/12/1984 12/  by          11905
          1984
Agrmt. 6/ 6/8/ Appendix    C
8/1985    1985
3/8/1986  3/8/ Superseded  91-11091
          1986 by
8/9/1986  8/9/ Adopting    Pg. vii
          1986 Ord.
Ch. 1, §     Superseded  8-14-13-2
101            by
12/11/    12/
1986      11/  Chapter 20  §§ 201-211
          1986
R-91-     6/9/ Appendix    C
060991    1991
          7/   Superseded
91-71391  13/  by          2-9-05
          1991
91-71391- 7/   Superseded
2         13/  by          6-28-04-1
          1991
          11/  Superseded
91-1109-1 6/   by          5-9-2012
          1991
          11/
91-1109-2 9/   Chapter 20  §§ 301-312
          1991
          1/
94-112    12/  Chapter 15  §§ 201, 302
          1994
          7/
94-71394  13/  Appendix    C
          1994
          7/
71394-2   13/  Appendix    C
          1994
          8/
81094A    10/  Chapter 15  § 403
          1994
          8/
81094B    10/  Chapter 15  § 201
          1994
          6/
95-0614   14/  Chapter 15  § 403
          1995
          1/
1/17/96   17/  Chapter 27  § 503
          1996
7997      7/9/ Chapter 15  § 201
          1997
          1/
1-14-98   14/  Chapter 27  §§ 102, 401-405
          1998
          1/
12998     29/  Chapter 15  § 201
          1998
          10/              §§ 102, 1001-1008, 1418-1421, 1504, 1507-1516, 1639, 1640, 1642, 1703, 1801-
10-10-01  10/  Chapter 27  1805, 1901-1911
          2001
          12/
12-12-01  12/  Chapter 15  § 301
          2001
10902     1/9/ Chapter 15  § 401, § 403
          2002
          9/
91102     11/  Chapter 27  §§ 102, 502, 602, 702, 1003, 1422-1424, 2005-2011
          2002
111203        1/12/2003   AppendixB
          2/
2/12/2003 12/  Chapter 27  § 403
          2003
          6/
6-28-04-1 28/  Chapter 5   §§ 101-105
          2004
          6/
6-28-04-2 28/  Appendix    C
          2004
          6/
6-28-04-3 28/  Chapter 21  §§ 201-215
          2004
9804      9/8/ Chapter 27  §§ 102, 502, 1504
          2004
2-9-05    2/9/ Chapter 18  §§ 101-130
          2005
          11/
11905     9/   Chapter 19  §§ 201-213
          2005
          6/
61406     14/  Chapter 27  §§ 102, 602, 605, 702, 705, 1201-1207, 1425, 1426
          2006
9-13-06-  9/
01        13/  Chapter 27  §§ 804, 904
          2006
9-13-06-  9/
02        13/  Chapter 18  §§ 102, 104, 113, 117, 121-123
          2006
          12/
12-12-07  12/  Chapter 15  § 401
          2007
2-13-08-  2/
01        13/  Chapter 24  §§ 201-219
          2008
          6/
6-11-08   11/  Appendix    C
          2008
          9/
9-10-08   10/  Appendix    C
          2008
          11/
11-12-08  12/  Chapter 15  §§ 401, 403
          2008
11-10-10- 11/
01        10/  Chapter 18  §§ 301-308
          2010
11-18-10- 11/
1         18/  Appendix    A
          2010
11-18-10- 11/
2         18/  Appendix    C
          2010
          4/
4-13-11   13/  Chapter 1   § 501
          2011
          5/
5-11-11   11/  Appendix    C
          2011
          12/
12-14-11  14/  Chapter 24  §§ 101-110
          2011
               Chapter 27
5-9-2012  5/9/ Partially   §§ 204, 1101-1118, 1427, Zoning Map Amendments
          2012 repealed by
               4-8-20
8-8-12        8/8/2012    AppendixB
10-10-12- 10/
1         10/  Chapter 27  Zoning Map Amendments
          2012
          3/
3-13-13   13/  Appendix    F
          2013
          8/
8-14-13-1 14/  Appendix    C
          2013
          8/
8-14-13-2 14/  Chapter 1   §§ 101-103
          2013
          10/
10-9-13-1 9/   Appendix    B
          2013
7-9-14    7/9/ Appendix    A
          2014
Res. 8-   8/
13-14-1   13/  Appendix    F
          2014
          1/
1-14-15   14/  Appendix    C
          2015
          3/
3-11-15-1 11/  Chapter 27  § 1410
          2015
          10/
10-14-15  14/  Chapter 27  §§ 102, 1002
          2015
          3/
1-2016    14/  Appendix    C
          2016
3-9-16    3/9/ Appendix    C
          2016
          5/
5-11-16   11/  Chapter 15  §201
          2016
          12/
12-14-16  14/  Appendix    C
          2016
8-9-17-1  8/9/ Chapter 15  §§201, 203
          2017
          10/
10-11-17  11/  Chapter 27  §§27-1601 - 27-1609
          2017
Res. 12-  12/
13-17     13/  Chapter 13  §13-201
          2017
          2/
2-14-18-1 14/  Chapter 27  §§102, 402, 502, 902, 1429
          2018
          10/
10-10-18  10/  Chapter 15  §§201, 203
          2018
10-10-18- 10/
1         10/  Chapter 27  §402
          2018
1-9-19    1/9/ Chapter 27  §§102, 402, 1428
          2019
          4/
4-10-19   10/  Chapter 27  §§1002 - 1005, 1007
          2019
          7/
7-10-19-1 10/  Chapter 21  §§301 - 311, 401 - 408
          2019
4-8-20    4/8/ Chapter 27  §§1101 - 1134
          2020
9-9-20    9/9/ Chapter 15  §§201, 203
          2020
          12/
12-9-20   9/   Chapter 14  §106
          2020
          5/
5-12-21-1 12/  Chapter 27  §102
          2021
9-8-21-1  9/8/ Chapter 27  Zoning Map Amendments
          2021
11-10-21- 11/
1         10/  Chapter 21  §§501 - 513
          2021
          1/
1-12-22   12/  Chapter 27  §§102, 802, 902, 1002, 1302, 1431
          2022
          9/
9-14-22   14/  Chapter 27  §§102, 902
          2022
          10/
10-12-22  12/  Chapter 15  §§201, 203
          2022
          9/
9-13-23   13/  Chapter 27  §§102, 703, 1425
          2023
          8/
8-14-24   14/  Chapter 15  §201
          2024
                         
 
 
