SPRINGFIELD TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 209, passed 10-22-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   Amendments and supplements; numbering
   
10.03   Definitions and interpretation
   
10.04   Separability of provisions
   
10.05   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.06   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.99   General code penalty; complicity
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   This volume consists of all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature of the municipality, as revised, codified, arranged, numbered and
consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, and as such
shall be known and designated as the “codified ordinances of Springfield
Township”, for which designation “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to titles, chapters and sections are to such components
of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation section symbol (“§”) followed by
the number, such as “§
10.01”.
§ 10.02 AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS; NUMBERING.
   (A)   The codified ordinances of Springfield Township may be amended or
supplemented at any time and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Supervisors to make the
same a part thereof, such amendment or supplement shall be incorporated in, and
deemed a part of, the codified ordinances, so that a reference to the codified
ordinances shall be understood and construed as including the codified
ordinances of Springfield Township and any and all such amendments and
supplements.
   (B)   All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the codified
ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan set forth in the original codified ordinances as follows: each title
shall be subdivided into chapters, and each chapter shall be subdivided into
sections, which shall be numbered in accordance with the decimal numbering
system. The numbering of all sections, except penalty sections, shall be
consecutive within each chapter commencing with the first section of Chapter
10, which shall be numbered 10.01, the first “10” signifying the chapter number
within the code, and the two figures “01” after the decimal signifying the
first section in Chapter 10 of the code. Penalty sections shall be designated
“99” and shall be the last section of a chapter.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   In the construction of the codified ordinances, the following rules and
definitions shall control, excepting those inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Board of Supervisors as disclosed in a particular provision,
section or chapter. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the municipality adopting the codified
ordinances of Springfield Township in conformity with the Second Class Township
Code.
   AUTHORITY. Whenever in the codified ordinances authority is given to an
officer or an act is required to be performed, such authority may be exercised
and such act may be performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy or
subordinate, unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any such
particular provision.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The legislative authority of the township.
   CALENDAR; COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the calendar
month or year. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
   CONJUNCTIONS. AND includes OR and OR includes AND, if the sense so requires.
   COUNTY. The County of Bucks, Pennsylvania.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine shall extend and be applied to the
feminine and neuter genders.
   GENERAL RULE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, words and
phrases shall be construed according to the common usage of the language,
provided, however, that technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a special meaning in the law shall be construed according to such
technical or special meaning.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving authority to a board, commission, authority or
to three or more officers or employees or other persons shall be construed as
giving authority to a majority thereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
copartnerships, whether acting themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND and REAL ESTATE. Include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. All applicable laws of the United States of America and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   MUNICIPALITY. Springfield Township, Pennsylvania.
   NUMBER. Words in the plural include the singular and words in the singular
include the plural.
   OATH. Includes affirmation. When an OATH is required or authorized by law,
an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious
scruples about taking an oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and
effect as an OATH.
   ORDINANCE. Includes any ordinance of the municipality, including any
provision of these codified ordinances.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of such property.
   PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes land
and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except real property; REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   PUBLISH. To print in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
the entire document or a brief summary thereof with a listing of places where
copies have been filed and times when they are available for inspection.
   REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be done
or notice to be given within a reasonable time, it shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such act or the
giving of such notice.
   RESIDENCE. An abode in which a person permanently resides.
   SECOND CLASS TOWNSHIP CODE. The Second Class Township Code of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, being the Act of May 1, 1933 (P.L. 103, No. 69),
re-enacted and amended November 9, 1995 (P.L. 350, No. 60), as amended.
   SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state highways
and other public ways in the municipality.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
   TENSES. The use of any verb in the present tense includes the future.
   TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or a legal holiday, such time shall
not expire on such day but shall expire on the next week day.
   TOWNSHIP. The Municipality of Springfield, Pennsylvania.
   UNIT. Any governmental entity of the municipality.
§ 10.04 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section and each part of each section of these codified ordinances,
including each section and each part of each section of any standard technical
code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such section or part of a section, or any
provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to which it is held invalid or
unconstitutional, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that these codified ordinances would have been
adopted independently of such section or part of a section so held to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 10.05 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the municipality, and
parts of the same, in conflict with any of the provisions of these codified
ordinances, are hereby repealed.
§ 10.06 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.05 shall not affect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the municipality, or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
   (C)   The administrative ordinances and resolutions of the Board of
Supervisors not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of these
codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of the Board of Supervisors on any person;
   (E)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing, naming, relocating or
vacating any street or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or resolution or part thereof providing for the
establishment of positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing or changing the boundaries of
the municipality; or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors after
the adoption of these codified ordinances.
§ 10.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY; COMPLICITY.
   (A)   Civil enforcement. Except as provided in division (A), when the
penalty imposed for the violation of an ordinance enacted pursuant to the
provisions of the Second Class Township Code is not voluntarily paid to the
township, the township shall initiate a civil enforcement proceeding before a
district justice. The civil enforcement proceeding shall be initiated by
complaint or by such other means as may be provided by the Pennsylvania Rules
of Civil Procedure. An ordinance which is to be enforced through a civil
enforcement proceeding may prescribe civil penalties not to exceed $600 per
violation. In addition to or in lieu of civil actions before a district
justice, townships may enforce ordinances in equity. In any case where a
penalty for a violation of a township ordinance has not been timely paid and
the person upon whom the penalty was imposed is found to have been liable
therefor in civil proceedings, the violator shall be liable for the penalty
imposed, including additional daily penalties for continuing violations, plus
court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in the
enforcement proceedings. A township shall be exempt from the payment of costs
in any civil case brought to enforce an ordinance in accordance with this
division (A).
   (B)   Enforcement as summary offenses. For an ordinance regulating building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire, public safety, parking,
solicitation, curfew, water, air or noise pollution, the Board of Supervisors
shall provide that its enforcement shall be by action brought before a district
justice in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure. The municipal solicitor may
assume charge of the prosecution without the consent of the District Attorney
as required under Pa.R.Crim.P. No. 83(c) (relating to trial in summary cases).
The Board of Supervisors may prescribe criminal fines not to exceed $1,000 per
violation and may prescribe imprisonment to the extent allowed by law for the
punishment of summary offenses.
(Ord. 105, passed 11-12-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP MANAGER
      
32.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
35.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Each Supervisor of Springfield Township who takes office after the
effective date of this section shall receive compensation for attending duly
advertised general or special public meetings or hearings of the Board of
Supervisors, or other meetings authorized by the Board of Supervisors at the
rate of $50 for each meeting attended by such Supervisor, not to exceed $1,875
per year. (Note: The amount may not exceed the maximum allowed by law based on
the population of the township.)
   (B)   Such compensation shall be paid in monthly or quarterly installments.
   (C)   Supervisors and employees who use their personal motor vehicles for
authorized township business shall be compensated in accordance with the
Uniform Mileage Fee Law, 65 P.S. § 371.
   (D)   This section shall be effective on December 17, 2007.
(Ord. 143, effective 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 31: TOWNSHIP MANAGER
Section
   
31.01   Creation of position
   
31.02   Appointment and removal
   
31.03   Qualifications
   
31.04   Bond
   
31.05   Compensation; benefits
   
31.06   Powers and duties
§ 31.01 CREATION OF POSITION.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby creates the position of
Township Manager and assigns thereto the following rights, duties, obligations
and conditions.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of
Supervisors. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and may be
removed with or without cause at any time by a majority vote of said Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
§ 31.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Manager shall be chosen on the basis of his or her educational
accomplishments, executive, budgetary and administrative abilities, and
experience, with particular reference to the duties of his or her office as
hereinafter outlined.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties and continuously thereafter, the
Manager shall provide a bond to the township with a bonding company, as surety,
to be approved by the Board of Supervisors, in the sum of $50,000, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. The premium for said bond
will be paid by the township from the General Fund.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
§ 31.05 COMPENSATION; BENEFITS.
   The salary and benefits package of the Township Manager shall be fixed at
the time of his or her employment and may be adjusted from time to time by a
majority vote of the Board.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
§ 31.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the township,
and he or she shall be responsible to the Board as a whole for the proper and
efficient administration of the affairs of the township. The powers and duties
of administration of all township business shall be vested in the Manager,
unless imposed or conferred by statute upon other township officers.
   (B)   Subject to amendment by the Board, some of the illustrative powers and
duties of the Township Manager shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Supervise and be responsible to the Board of Supervisors for the
activities of all municipal departments;
      (2)   Hire, and when necessary for the good of the township, reprimand,
discipline, suspend, remove, discharge or reduce in rank or position, any
employee under his or her supervision, but only with the advice and consent of
the Board of Supervisors;
      (3)   Have the power to fix wages and salaries of all personnel under his
or her supervision, within a range previously determined by the Board, and
serve as the Human Resources Manager for all other personnel under his or her
supervision;
      (4)   Prepare and submit to the Board, before October 31 of each year, a
budget for the next fiscal year and an explanatory budget message;
      (5)   Be responsible for the administration of the budget after its
adoption by the Board;
      (6)   In conjunction with the preparation of the yearly budget, develop
long-range fiscal plans and capital improvements plans for the township, such
plans to be presented annually to the Board for its review and adoption;
      (7)   Hold such other township offices and head such township departments
as the Board may from time to time direct;
      (8)   Attend all meetings of the Board and its committees, as well as all
meetings of the Planning Commission, with the right to take part in the
discussions;
      (9)   With the concurrence of the Chairperson of the Board, monitor the
status of all pending township matters and prepare the agenda for any regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board and supply all information pertinent to the
subject matter on the agenda to each Board member at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting;
      (10)   Keep the Board informed as to the conduct of township affairs,
submit periodic reports on the condition of the township finances and such
other reports as the Board requests and make such recommendations to the Board
as he or she deems advisable;
      (11)   Submit to the Board, on or before March 31, a complete report on
the finances and the administrative activities of the township for the
preceding year; and
      (12)   See that the provisions of all franchises, leases, permits and
privileges granted by or to the township are observed.
(Ord. 2005-131, passed - -2005)
CHAPTER 32: TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Term
   
32.03   (Reserved)
   
32.04   Residence
   
32.05   Compensation
   
32.06   Powers and authority
Environmental Advisory Council
   
32.20   Creation
   
32.21   Composition
   
32.22   Appointment
   
32.23   Compensation
   
32.24   Advisory in nature
   
32.25   Duties
   
32.26   Records
   
32.27   Appropriation of funds
Park and Land Preservation Board
   
32.40   Creation
   
32.41   Term
   
32.42   Duties
   
32.43   Membership
Historical Commission
   
32.50   Creation
   
32.51   Membership
   
32.52   Compensation
   
32.53   Removal of members
   
32.54   Organization
   
32.55   Responsibilities
   
32.56   Appropriations
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   The Township Planning Commission shall consist of seven members pursuant to
the provisions of 53 P.S. § 10202.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-8-1962; Ord. 51, passed 5-13-1986)
§ 32.02 TERM.
   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be appointed to serve for the
term of four years, or until his or her successor is appointed.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-8-1962; Ord. 51, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 32.03 (RESERVED).
§ 32.04 RESIDENCE.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall reside within the township.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-8-1962)
§ 32.05 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation but
may be reimbursed for necessary expenses.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-8-1962)
§ 32.06 POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Planning Commission shall have all of the powers and authorities
conferred upon the Planning Commissions by 53 P.S. § 10209.1.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-8-1962)
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 32.20 CREATION.
   An advisory council, to be known as the Springfield Township Environmental
Advisory Council, is hereby created and shall continue to function until this
subchapter is revoked.
(Ord. 118, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-
2021)
§ 32.21 COMPOSITION.
   The Environmental Advisory Council shall be composed of five residents of
the municipality.
(Ord. 118, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 122, passed 2-11-2003; Ord. 126, passed 4-13-
2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 32.22 APPOINTMENT.
   Council members shall be appointed in accordance with the following
procedures.
   (A)   All Council members shall be appointed by the governing body of the
political subdivision.
   (B)   Council members' terms of office shall expire on the first Monday in
January following the last year of their term of office.
   (C)   Duly appointed Council members shall serve a term of three years,
except that initial appointment shall be so staggered that the terms of
approximately one-third of the membership shall expire each year.
(Ord. 118, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-
2021)
§ 32.23 COMPENSATION.
   Council members shall receive no compensation for their services, but may be
reimbursed for the expenses actually and necessarily incurred by them in the
performance of their duties, upon prior authorization of the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 118, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-
2021)
§ 32.24 ADVISORY IN NATURE.
   The Environmental Advisory Council is to be advisory to, and shall
coordinate its activities with the Board of Supervisors, Planning Commission,
Historical Commission, Parks and Land Preservation Board and other such local
governmental agencies.
(Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 32.25 DUTIES.
   The Environmental Advisory Council shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Research and recommend actions to the Board of Supervisors (or other
township boards and commissions) to address environmental issues identified as
affecting the township including those issues brought to the attention of the
Council by township residents and those that may require regulatory action;
   (B)   Recommend and promote plans, programs and initiatives for the
conservation of natural resources, and for the protection and improvement of
the quality of the environment, within the area of this municipality and the
greater region where plans, programs and initiatives are transboundary in
nature; and
   (C)   At the request of the Township Manager and the Board of Supervisors
(or other township boards and commissions in coordination with the Township
Manager) to review and provide advice on any decisions that have potential
environmentally sensitive aspects, including but not limited to, new and
existing ordinances, plans, resolutions and zoning or planning applications.
(Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 32.26 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Environmental Advisory Council shall keep records of its meetings
and activities.
   (B)   Minutes of each meeting shall be forwarded to the governing body.
   (C)   An annual report shall be presented to the governing body which shall
be made known and available to the public.
(Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-2021)
§ 32.27 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The governing body of this municipality may, from time to time, appropriate
funds for the expenses incurred by the Council. Funds raised by the Council
will be accounted for separately and available for legal expenditure related to
Council activities.
(Ord. 126, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 198, passed 5-25-2021)
PARK AND LAND PRESERVATION BOARD
§ 32.40 CREATION.
   Contemporaneously with the dissolution of the Open Space Committee and the
Park and Recreation Board, the Park and Land Preservation Board is hereby
created consistent with statutory authority contained in § 2204 of the Second
Class Township Code.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 32.41 TERM.
   (A)   Those former members of the Open Space Committee and the Park and
Recreation Board (dissolved July 1, 2018) who wished to be appointed to the
Park and Land Preservation Board could apply by submitting a letter of intent
and were provided first consideration.
   (B)   A term length shall be five years, except for initial appointments
which shall be as follows:
      (1)   Term 1 - expiration on December 31, 2019;
      (2)   Term 2 - expiration on December 31, 2019;
      (3)   Term 3 - expiration on December 31, 2020;
      (4)   Term 4 - expiration on December 31, 2020;
      (5)   Term 5 - expiration on December 31, 2021;
      (6)   Term 6 - expiration on December 31, 2021;
      (7)   Term 7 - expiration on December 31, 2022.
   (C)   The individual appointed to Term 7 shall be designated Temporary Chair
of the Park and Land Preservation Board, and shall organize the inaugural
meeting until such time as a Chair is elected per §
32.43.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 32.42 DUTIES.
   The tasks of the Park and Land Preservation Board are:
   (A)   Not later than August 30 of each year, prepare an estimate of the
township’s available balance from the previous fiscal year – or the difference
between revenue from the dedicated tax and expenses to pay the bonds in the
upcoming year – for computation of allowable spending under Act 115 of 2013 for
the Board of Supervisor’s review and certification. The Board of Supervisors
may allocate up to 100% of the estimate at its discretion.
   (B)   Once certified, draft an annual budget recommendation for the purpose
of fulfilling the objectives described in the tax referendum of 2000 for
Supervisor approval.
   (C)   Seek, facilitate and recommend to the Board of Supervisors the
acquisition of conservation easements – and in rare cases fee simple purchase –
for land preservation consistent with the purposes set forth in the bond
referendum of 2007.
   (D)   Supervise, regulate, equip and maintain township funded recreation
program and facilities, with the exception that no expense greater than $1,000
shall be incurred without prior consent of the Board of Supervisors. Recommend
to the Board of Supervisors contributions to township controlled facilities for
the purposes of maintenance, capital improvements, and the like, so long as the
property is within the township boundaries and is made available to township
residents for public use.
   (E)   Prepare updates to the township’s Park and Recreation Plan (2013) and
Open Space Plan (2010) for Board of Supervisor’s approval when requested by the
Board of Supervisors. Prepare an annual report for delivery to the Board of
Supervisors not later than February 28 on funds spent the previous year and
including an analysis of the adequacy and effectiveness of community recreation
areas, facilities and leadership.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-26-2018)
§ 32.43 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership on the Park and Land Preservation Board is set at seven residents
of the township. The Park and Land Preservation Board shall elect its own
officers on an annual basis.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-26-2018)
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
§ 32.50 CREATION.
   Pursuant to the powers granted by the Second Class Township Code, a
Commission is hereby created to be known as the Springfield Township Historical
Commission.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.51 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Historical Commission:
   (A)   Shall consist of a maximum of five members who shall be residents of
Springfield Township.
   (B)   Shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Shall be appointed for a term of three years, except the terms of:
      (1)   Two of the members first appointed shall be for one year.
      (2)   Two of the members first appointed shall be for two years.
      (3)   One member first appointed shall be for three years. Thereafter,
the members will serve for three-year staggered terms as of January of each
year.
   (D)   A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the Board of
Supervisors for the unexpired term.
   (E)   The Commission shall have the right to make recommendations to the
Board of Supervisors for proposed appointees to the Commission to fulfill full
or unexpired terms.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.52 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Historical Commission shall serve without compensation,
although they may be reimbursed for expenses necessary to carry out the
objectives of the Commission when those expenses are deemed necessary and
appropriate and approved by the Board of Supervisors in advance of such
expenditures.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.53 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Board of Supervisors may remove, by resolution, any member for the
Springfield Township Historical Commission at any time during such member's
term for any reason or no reason.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.54 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Historical Commission shall elect its own chairman and create and
fill such offices as it deems proper and necessary. The Commission may make and
alter its rules of procedure consistent with the ordinances of the township and
the laws of the Commonwealth. It shall keep records of its minutes,
transactions, findings and determinations, and such records shall be a public
record except when prejudicial to a negotiation and therefore not in the public
interest. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, and action
taken at a meeting shall require the affirmative vote of the majority.
   (B)   The Historical Commission shall hold a minimum of four meetings
annually, with one meeting being held in each calendar quarter.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.55 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Board of
Supervisors and Planning Commission for historic preservation and to accomplish
this purpose, the Commission shall:
   (A)   Make a record of the township's history and its significant
architectural and historic sites and maintain an inventory and map(s) of these
historic resources including informational data appropriately classified.
   (B)   Cooperate with all township officials and agencies in relation to the
preservation and restoration of historic structure and sites, including the
possible acquisition and use of the same by the township.
   (C)   Consider, promote and, with the approval of the Board of Supervisors
and in agreement with the current property holders, to apply for technical and
financial assistance in the form of grants or otherwise, from all appropriate
local, township, county, state, federal and other agencies, and conservation
and environmental organizations, in connection with the preservation of
significant architecture, natural and historic sites within the township, and
to report all related action to the Board of Supervisors. Candidates for such
activities can be brought to the attention of the Historical Commission through
its members, residents and or the Board of Supervisors for consideration.
   (D)   Prepare and submit a yearly budget to the Board of Supervisors for
sums deemed necessary to carry out the duties and objectives of the Historical
Commission, on or before August of the preceding year. Funds shall be allocated
to the Commission as the Board of Supervisors shall determine in its sole
discretion.
   (E)   Upon request from the Board of Supervisors prepare a yearly report of
activity by January of each year, for presentation to the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Make recommendations for suitable plaques or markers to distinguish
historic sites and or buildings of Springfield Township.
   (G)   Cooperate with and encourage the activities of interested residents in
such activities which will serve in the historical interests of Springfield
Township.
   (H)   Upon request from the Board of Supervisors and in conjunction and
cooperation with the Planning Commission and other interested township
officials, to study the feasibility of creating historic districts within the
township in accordance with and pursuant to the Act of June 13, 1961, P.L. 282,
No. 167, as amended, entitled the Municipalities Planning Code.
   (I)   Annually review and maintain the historic resource list contained in
Chapter 154, Zoning, of the Township Code and make recommendations for
revisions, inclusions and exclusions to the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 32.56 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors may appropriate from the general township funds
such funds as may be necessary and available for the work of the Historical
Commission in the year for which the appropriation is made.
(Ord. 192, passed 2-26-2019)
CHAPTER 33: TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
Section
   
33.01   Social Security
   
33.02   PSATS unemployment compensation trust group
   
33.03   Police pension plan; DROP
   
33.04   Pennsylvania Municipal Health Insurance Cooperative
   
33.05   Municipal Risk Management Workers’ Compensation Pooled Trust
§ 33.01 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township ordain that this township
become a participant in the Social Security System and that the benefits of Old
Age and Survivors Insurance be extended to its employees and officers.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors and the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors
of the township are authorized to execute and deliver to the Secretary of Labor
and Industry of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the state agency charged with
the administration of 65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq., the plan and agreement required
under the provisions of 65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq., to extend coverage to the
employees and officers of this township, and to do all other things necessary
to that end.
   (C)   The Township Secretary be and he or she is hereby authorized to make
all required payments into the Contribution Fund established by 65 P.S. §§ 201
et seq. and to establish such system of payroll deductions from salaries of
officers and employees as may be necessary to their coverage under said 65 P.S.
§§ 201 et seq.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby appropriate from the
proper fund or funds of the said township the amounts necessary to pay into the
Contribution Fund as provided by 65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq. and in accordance with
the plan or plans and agreement.
   (E)   The proper officials of the township shall do all things in accordance
with the provisions contained in the plan and agreement necessary to the
continued implementation of said 65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq.
   (F)   The township shall become a participant in the Social Security System,
and that such participation shall commence as of April 1, 1956.
(Ord. 1, passed 2-7-1956)
§ 33.02 PSATS UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION TRUST GROUP.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors adopts the Restated Trust Agreement and
agrees to participate in the Trust in accordance with the amended and updated
terms of the Restated Trust Agreement and that the Chairperson of the Board of
Supervisors and Secretary of the Township are hereby authorized to sign the
Restated Trust Agreement and any other agreements necessary for the township’s
participation in the Trust.
      (2)   The Restated Trust Agreement is on file for inspection and review
at the township’s offices at 2320 Township Road, Quakertown, Pennsylvania
18951. The Restated Trust Agreement may be subsequently modified or amended in
accordance with its terms, but in no event shall such modifications or
amendments divert any of the trust funds from the purposes of the Trust. The
township may withdraw from the Trust in accordance with the Restated Trust
Agreement, including if the Board of Supervisors determines the modifications
or amendments are not in the best interests of the township.
   (B)   The participation of the township in the Trust is authorized for the
purpose of pooling resources for the purpose of providing unemployment
compensation insurance for participating employers at reasonable cost.
   (C)   That, as set forth in greater detail in the Restated Trust Agreement
and as otherwise stated herein, the following conditions apply to the
participation of the township in the Trust:
      (1)   Each participating employer must meet the admission and eligibility
requirements set forth therein;
      (2)   Each participating employer agrees to pay all contributions when
due as provided in the Restated Trust Agreement or as otherwise established by
the Board of Trustees; and
      (3)   Each participating employer complies with all other conditions of
the Restated Trust Agreement.
   (D)   The township agrees to participate in the Trust and may withdraw for
any reason and in accordance with the Restated Trust Agreement, provided that
it has fulfilled all its financial obligations to the Trust upon withdrawal.
   (E)   The effective date of the township’s agreement to and joinder in the
Restated Trust Agreement and the participation of the township in the Trust
pursuant to the terms of the Restated Trust Agreement will be March 24, 2015.
   (F)   Each participating employer delegates to the Board of Trustees the
powers enumerated in the Restated Trust Agreement.
   (G)   The organizational structure of the Trust shall consist of a Board of
Trustees. Under the Restated Trust Agreement, the Board of Trustees is
authorized to, among other things, enter into contracts with third parties to
perform various services necessary for the administration of the Trust.
   (H)   The funds required for the operation of the Trust shall be provided by
the participating employers through scheduled appropriations as determined by
the Board of Trustees.
   (I)   The Trust is empowered to enter into contracts for policies of group
insurance and employee benefits, including Social Security, for employees of
the Trust, if any.
   (J)   As a condition of participating in the Trust, the township agrees to
comply with all of the terms and conditions in the Restated Trust Agreement.
   (K)   The Secretary of the township shall provide a certified copy of the
ordinance as codified in this section upon its enactment to the Board of
Trustees of the Trust.
   (L)   The Board of Supervisors of the township is hereby authorized to take
any and all such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out
the purposes of this section and comply with the requirements of the Restated
Trust Agreement, attached to the ordinance as codified in this section, and any
duly adopted amendments thereto.
   (M)   The duration of the term of the township’s participation in the Trust
and obligations under the Restated Trust Agreement shall continue until
withdrawal from the Trust by the township in accordance with the terms of the
Restated Trust Agreement.
   (N)   The Board of Supervisors hereby specifically finds and determines as
follows.
      (1)   The conditions of the intergovernmental cooperative agreement are
set forth in the Restated Trust Agreement incorporated by reference herein.
      (2)   The township shall participate in the Trust in accordance with the
Restated Trust Agreement until it withdraws by giving notice to the Board of
Trustees in accordance with the terms of the Restated Trust Agreement.
      (3)   The purpose and objectives of the intergovernmental cooperative
arrangement, including powers and scope of authority delegated to the Board of
Trustees, are set forth in the incorporated Restated Trust Agreement.
      (4)   The manner and extent of financing of the agreement are that:
         (a)   Funds to implement the township’s obligations under the
agreement shall come from the normal and usual budgeted amounts for township
employee compensation and employee benefits; and
         (b)   No borrowing is anticipated to be required.
      (5)   The Trust shall be managed by the Board of Trustees pursuant to the
terms of the Restated Trust Agreement.
      (6)   All assets and property, real or personal, of the Trust shall be
titled to, acquired, managed, licensed or disposed of by the Trust, and its
Board of Trustees, in accordance with the terms of the Restated Trust
Agreement.
      (7)   The Trust, in accordance with the Restated Trust Agreement, shall
be empowered to enter into contracts for policies of group insurance and
employee welfare benefits to be offered to participating employers for their
eligible employee and dependents.
   (O)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to affect any rights or
liabilities of the township, or to affect any cause of action, existing prior
to the enactment of this section.
(Ord. 180, passed 3-24-2015)
§ 33.03 POLICE PENSION PLAN; DROP.
   (A)   Pension annuity contracts. The township hereby enacts and ordains as
follows.
      (1)   Any funds received by the township from the Commonwealth arising
from the tax on premiums paid by foreign casualty insurance companies shall be
expended to secure pension annuity contracts, as herein defined, for the
benefit of township police officers; provided, however, that any surplus funds
not so expended shall be invested in securities authorized by law as
investments for fiduciaries and registered in the name of “Springfield Township
Police Pension Fund” , which securities may later be liquidated to secure
additional pension annuity contracts; and, provided, further, that all funds
thus received from the Commonwealth shall be utilized either for the securing
of pension annuity contracts or invested as above set forth within two years of
the receipt thereof.
      (2)   PENSION ANNUITY CONTRACT is defined as any contract made by the
township with an insurance or other authorized company to provide pension,
retirement or disability benefits to the police officers employed by the
township, or death benefits to the beneficiary designated by such police
officer. The township shall be the owner of all rights under the contract,
except the rights to designate the beneficiary, to change the beneficiary, and
to receive the death, pension and retirement benefits thereunder. When the
employment of any police officer is terminated other than by death or
retirement, the township shall apply the value of such contract to provide for
the police officer, death, pension, retirement or disability benefits in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract.
      (3)   The pension annuity contracts shall be secured from such companies
and pursuant to such terms, consistent with this division (A), as the Board of
Supervisors shall from time to time determine.
      (4)   POLICE OFFICER is defined as a full-time paid police officer
working not less than 40 hours per week at a definite salary.
      (5)   Pending expenditure or investment of the funds received from the
Commonwealth referred to in division (A)(1) above, said funds shall be
deposited with a banking institution authorized to do business in the state in
the name of “Springfield Township Police Pension Fund”. All checks on said
account shall be signed by both the Chairperson and the Secretary of the
Township Board of Supervisors.
      (6)   All pension annuity contracts and securities shall be placed in a
safe deposit box in a banking institution authorized to do business in the
state. The box shall be registered in the name of “Springfield Township Police
Pension Fund”, and in all instances, access to the box shall require both the
Chairperson and the Secretary of the Township Board of Supervisors.
      (7)   A separate fidelity bond shall be maintained to cover both the
Chairperson and the Secretary of the Township Board of Supervisors, said bond
to be in an amount equal to at least 25% of the monies on deposit at any time
in the checking account plus 15% of the cash surrender value of all pension
annuity contracts (including prepaid premiums) plus 15% of the value of all
registered securities. Such bond must contain a clause stating that the
insurance company issuing the same cannot cancel the bond as issued unless it
shall first have given to the Office of the Auditor General of the
Commonwealth, 30- days’ notice in writing of its intention so to cancel.
   (B)   DROP pension.
      (1)   Title. This division (B) shall be known and referred to as the
“DROP Pension Division of Springfield Township”.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DROP. The Deferred Retirement Option Plan created as an option form of
benefit under the existing Springfield Township Pension Plan.
         DROP ACCOUNT. A bookkeeping account created to accept DROP
participant’s monthly pension payments. The pension payments may be credited
with interest in an amount to be determined from time to time by the Investment
Manager.
         MEMBER. A full-time township police officer covered by the Springfield
Township Pension Plan.
         PARTICIPANT. A member who is eligible for normal retirement and who
has elected to participate in the DROP program, within the window of time set
forth in division (B)(3) below.
         PLAN. The Springfield Township Pension Plan adopted pursuant to Act
600, being 65 P.S. §§ 767 et seq.
      (3)   Eligibility. Any police officer who is a member and has fulfilled
the age and service requirements for retirement as set forth in the collective
bargaining agreement shall be eligible to participate in DROP at his or her
option in conformance with this division (B) and after providing at least 30
days’ written notice to the township.
      (4)   Procedures.
         (a)   Entry into DROP. Election to participate by an eligible police
officer shall be made on any date within the length of the collective
bargaining agreement terms and following the date on which the police officer
fulfills the minimum age and service requirements for normal retirement under
the pension plan. Once a police officer commences participation in DROP, he or
she may not choose to end participation in DROP and resume contributions to the
pension plan.
         (b)   Request to enter and enrollment forms. Election to participate
shall be made by completing the required request and enrollment forms, which
shall show the entry date into DROP and the deferred retirement date for the
term chosen by the police officer. The deferred retirement date shall not
exceed 60 months from the date of enrollment and entry into DROP.
         (c)   The length of DROP. The DROP term shall be for a period of no
more than 60 months from the date of entry. Termination of participation in
DROP shall take place:
            1.   At the end of the 60-month period or at any other time
(earlier than 60 months) the police officer chooses to end his or her
participation; or
            2.   If the participant is terminated from employment for reasons
set forth under applicable state law.
         (d)   Retirement status and pension contribution. Once enrolled in
DROP, the DROP participant shall be retired under the pension plan for the
purpose of calculating pension benefits, but not for the purpose of employment
with the Township Police Department. Once a police officer enters DROP, he or
she shall no longer be required to make contributions to the pension plan, nor
shall he or she be eligible for any further pension benefits other than the
pension benefit determined in division (B)(4)(e) below.
         (e)   Retirement rate. Payments to DROP will be made at the
participant’s normal retirement monthly benefit amount, determined by the
collective bargaining agreement at the date the police officer enters DROP.
Payments shall be sent to the DROP participant’s account with the Investment
Manager.
         (f)   Administration. DROP accounts shall be administered by
Investment Manager(s) who shall be selected and agreed upon, by both the
township and the Union. The DROP participant shall be responsible for all
administrative costs and risks associated with his or her account with the
Investment Manager. If more than one Investment Manager is available for
administration of DROP participant’s account, the participant shall be
responsible to designate which Investment Manager is to receive monthly benefit
amounts. The township shall not be responsible for the performance of an
officer’s funds while invested in DROP.
         (g)   Disability issues. If, while a police officer is enrolled in
DROP, he or she is injured while on duty, to the extent that he or she is
permanently disabled from performing police work for the township, the police
officer shall be retired. Participation in DROP shall terminate and
distribution of accumulated pension benefits shall be disbursed to retiree in
accordance with IRS regulations as well as applicable state and federal laws.
The retiree shall not be eligible for disability pension benefits, since his or
her pension benefits have been finalized as per divisions (B)(4)(d) and (B)(4)
(e) above.
         (h)   Survivorship options. If a DROP participant dies during his or
her participation period, all funds in that participant’s account shall be
disbursed to the participant’s beneficiary or beneficiaries listed in the DROP
contract. Upon death of a DROP participant, either during or following his or
her DROP terms, the death and survivor benefits will be payable by the pension
plan in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement with the
stipulation that the monthly pension benefit upon which survivorship
calculations are determined shall be that amount determined by division (B)(4)
(e) above.
      (5)   Pending legislation. In the event of the passage of legislation
governing DROPs in the Commonwealth, this division (B) shall be amended to
comply with any new legal requirements set forth in such legislation. The
application of any amendments to police officers actively employed as of the
effective date of any such legislation shall be governed by and consistent with
constitutional principles applicable to the pension and retirement benefits.
   (C)   Killed in service death benefit. The killed in service death benefit
is hereby restated in its entirety to read as follows. If a member is killed in
service, the killed in service death benefit shall be funded for and provided
by the Commonwealth as defined in Act 51 of 2009, being 53 P.S. § 891. No
killed in service death benefit shall be provided by the Township Police
Pension Plan.
(Ord. 8, passed 12-12-1967; Ord. 140, passed 10-23-2007; Ord. 157, passed - -
2010)
§ 33.04 PENNSYLVANIA MUNICIPAL HEALTH INSURANCE COOPERATIVE.
   (A)   (1)   A number of political subdivisions within the state have
investigated whether it would be mutually beneficial to cooperate with each
other in obtaining employee benefit insurance.
      (2)   A plan has been presented to establish the Pennsylvania Municipal
Health Insurance Cooperative (the “PMHIC”) for the purpose of collectively
purchasing employee benefits insurance.
      (3)   The PMHIC will be established pursuant to an intergovernmental
cooperation agreement entitled the Pennsylvania Municipal Health Insurance
Cooperative Agreement (“the Agreement”).
      (4)   Pursuant to the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 53
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 481 et seq., a municipality may enter into an intergovernmental
cooperation agreement upon the passage of an ordinance by its governing body.
   (B)   (1)   The township hereby approves entering into the Agreement, a copy
of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (and which
shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting at which this section was
enacted), with the intent and effect that this political subdivision shall be
bound by the Agreement.
      (2)   The Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the governing body, acting
alone or together with the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, are hereby
authorized and directed on behalf of the political subdivision to:
         (a)   Execute and deliver the Agreement; and
         (b)   Execute and deliver such additional instruments, and to take
such further actions, as may be necessary or appropriate to carry forth the
Agreement and the transactions to be effected under the Agreement, including
payment to the PMHIC of such amounts as are due by the political subdivision
pursuant to the Agreement.
      (3)   All actions of any officer, agent or other representative of this
political subdivision heretofore taken in the pursuit of the establishment of
the PMHIC and/or the political subdivision’s participation therein, are hereby
ratified and approved in all respects.
      (4)   The governing body of the political subdivision is hereby
authorized to take such other action as may be necessary or appropriate to
carry out the purposes of this section and of the Agreement.
      (5)   As required by the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Act,
the following matters are specifically found and determined.
         (a)   The conditions of the Agreement are set forth in the Agreement.
         (b)   This political subdivision shall participate in the PMHIC for an
initial term of three years from the date that it first elected to purchase
benefits through PMHIC. Thereafter, termination of the Agreement shall be as
further set forth therein.
         (c)   The purpose and objectives of the Agreement are as set forth in
division (A) above and in the Agreement.
         (d)   The manner and extent of financing the Agreement are that:
            1.   No borrowing will be required by the political subdivision;
            2.   Funds to implement the political subdivision’s obligations
under the Agreement same shall come from normal and usual budgeted amounts for
such matters; and
            3.   Other provisions governing the manner and extent of the
financing of the PMHIC shall be as set forth in the Agreement.
         (e)   The PMHIC shall be managed by its Board of Directors pursuant to
the terms of the Agreement.
         (f)   All property, real or personal, of the PMHIC, shall be acquired,
managed, licensed or disposed of by the PMHIC in accordance with the terms of
the Agreement.
         (g)   The PMHIC created by the Agreement shall be empowered to enter
into contracts for policies of group insurance and employee benefits pursuant
to the terms of the Agreement.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are severable and if any section,
sentence, clause or part or provision hereof shall be held to be illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision of the court shall not affect the remaining sections, clauses, parts
or provisions of this section. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the
political subdivision that such section would have been enacted if such
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional section, sentence, clause, part or
provision had not been included herein.
      (7)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to affect any
suit or proceeding in any court, or any rights acquired or liability incurred,
or any cause of action existing prior to the enactment of this section.
(Ord. 155, passed 2-9-2010)
§ 33.05 MUNICIPAL RISK MANAGEMENT WORKERS’ COMPENSATION POOLED TRUST.
   (A)   The proper municipal officers are hereby authorized to execute and
deliver the following documents:
      (1)   The Municipal Risk Management Workers’ Compensation Pooled Trust
Agreement (hereafter the Agreement); and
      (2)   The participant’s application, which documents are attached the
ordinance codified herein and made part hereof as if set out in length, and
which may be inspected by any interested citizen at the office of the Municipal
Secretary.
   (B)   The purpose and objectives of the Agreement are set forth in Article V
of the Agreement.
   (C)   The powers and scope of authority delegated are set forth in Article
II, Article V, Article VI, Article VIII and Article IX of the Agreement.
   (D)   The funds for meeting the obligations of the political subdivision
under the Agreement shall be appropriated from the general funds of the
political subdivision.
   (E)   The organizational structure necessary to implement the Agreement
consists of the trust, trustees, service agents and fiscal agents created by
the Agreement.
   (F)   Property acquired for purposes of the Trust shall be acquired, managed
and disposed of under the terms of the attached Trust Agreement.
   (G)   The Trust shall be empowered to enter into contracts for policies of
group insurance and employee benefits, including Social Security for its
employees.
(Ord. 133, passed 2-28-2006)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Earned Income Taxation
   
34.001   Incorporation of statute
   
34.002   Imposition of tax
   
34.003   Declarations, returns and payment of tax
   
34.004   Collection at source
   
34.005   Administration
   
34.006   Interest and penalties for late payment
Taxation Upon a Transfer of Real Property
   
34.020   Preamble
   
34.021   Definitions
   
34.022   Imposition of tax; interest
   
34.023   Exempt parties
   
34.024   Excluded transactions
   
34.025   Documents relating to associations or corporations and members,
partners, shareholders or stockholders
   
34.026   Acquired company
   
34.027   Credits against tax
   
34.028   Determination by Department of Revenue
   
34.029   Extension of lease
   
34.030   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
34.031   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   
34.032   Statement of value
   
34.033   Lien
   
34.034   Enforcement
   
34.035   Regulations
   
34.036   Millage freeze
Local Services Tax
   
34.050   Title
   
34.051   Authority
   
34.052   Definitions
   
34.053   Incorporation of statute
   
34.054   Levy of tax; exemption
   
34.055   Duty of employers
   
34.056   Withholding by employer; employer’s returns and commissions; annual
report and payment; exemptions
   
34.057   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation
   
34.058   Self-employed individuals
   
34.059   Collection of taxes
   
34.060   Recovery of unpaid tax; interest and penalty; examinations
   
34.061   Nonresident employers
   
34.062   Examination; violations
   
34.063   Refunds, minimums and interest
   
34.064   Applicability; validity
 
   
34.999   Penalty
EARNED INCOME TAXATION
§ 34.001 INCORPORATION OF STATUTE.
   The provisions of 53 P.S. § 6913 of the Local Tax Enabling Act, P.L. 1257,
No. 511, December 31, 1965, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., as hereafter amended,
supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania,
are incorporated herein by reference thereto; except to the extent that options
are provided in said 53 P.S. § 6913, this subchapter designates the option
selected, and except as and where hereinafter specifically provided otherwise.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989)
§ 34.002 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The township hereby adopts a tax of 0.25% on wages, salaries,
commissions and other earned income of individuals residing in the township, in
addition to the 0.50% earned income tax previously imposed, effective January
1, 2001. The additional 0.25% shall be used solely to retire indebtedness
incurred in purchasing interest in real property or in making additional
acquisitions of real property for the purpose of securing an open space benefit
under the provisions of Act 153 of 1996. Revenue from the tax levy shall be
used in accordance with the procedures to be established by the Township Board
of Supervisors in compliance with the Open Space Act, being 32 P.S. § 5007.1.
The tax levy shall continue indefinitely until revoked by an ordinance of
Springfield Township. The administration of the tax levy shall be governed by
the local Tax Enabling Act of the Commonwealth. This tax levy was authorized by
the electors of Springfield Township at the general election of November 7,
2000.
      (2)   All residents aged 18 and over shall be required to file a tax
return by April 15 of each year for the preceding tax year.
      (3)   All residents who are under age 18 and are enrolled in a
(elementary, junior or senior high) school from which they have not graduated
and residents age 70 and older shall be exempt from this tax for any calendar
year in which their total income from all sources is less than $5,000.
   (B)   The tax levied under division (A)(1) above shall relate to and be
imposed upon salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation paid by an
employer or on his or her behalf to any person who is employed by or renders
services to him or her. The tax levied under division (A)(2) above will relate
to and be imposed on the net profits of any business, profession or enterprise
carried on by any person as owner or proprietor, either individually or in
association with some other person or persons.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989; Ord. 117, passed 11-7-2000)
§ 34.003 DECLARATIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every taxpayer whose net profits are subject to the tax imposed by
this subchapter shall file a return declaring of his or her net profits for the
current year and shall pay the tax due thereon in one annual installment, all
as provided in 53 P.S. § 6913, III, A.(l)(i) of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (B)   Every taxpayer whose earnings are subject to the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall make and file final returns and pay to the officer the balance
of the tax due, as provided in 53 P.S. § 6913, III., B., first paragraph of the
Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (C)   Every taxpayer whose earnings are not subject to collection at the
source, shall make and file with the officer quarterly returns and shall pay
quarter-annually the amount of tax shown as due on such returns all as provided
in 53 P.S. § 6913, III., B.(2) of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (D)   The officer is hereby authorized to provide by regulation, subject to
the approval of the Board of Supervisors, that the return of an employer or
employers, showing the amount of tax deducted by said employer or employers
from the salaries, wages or commissions of any employee, and paid by him, her
or them to the officer shall be accepted as the return required of any employee
whose sole income, subject to the tax or taxes under this subchapter, is such
salary, wages or commissions.
   (E)   Upon filing a tax return, any tax balance under $1 need not be
remitted.
   (F)   The tax officer is empowered to refund all tax monies paid for said
calendar year upon receipt of proof of age (driver’s license or school records)
and a copy of the taxpayer’s state tax return.
   (G)   Proof of income and business loss shall be filed with all tax returns
including, but not limited to, W-2 and 1099 forms, Schedules C, E and F.
   (H)   Allowable business expenses must be documented on Federal Form 2106 or
Commonwealth forms PA UE-1 or UE-2 and shall be filed with the tax return.
   (I)   No refund shall be made to any resident who has not filed a completed
return including all forms and schedules documenting income and loss.
   (J)   (1)   Post-dated checks shall not be accepted.
      (2)   A check with a current date may, upon the request of the taxpayer
and at the discretion of the tax officer, be held a maximum of three working
days.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989)
§ 34.004 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse or
other place of business within the township who employs one or more persons,
other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation, shall register with the officer, deduct the tax imposed by this
subchapter on the earned income of his or her employee or employees and shall
make and file quarterly returns and final returns and pay quarterly to the
officer the amount of taxes deducted, all as provided in 53 P.S. § 6913, IV. of
the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989)
§ 34.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   The earned income tax officer shall be selected from time to time by
resolution of, and shall receive such compensation for his or her services and
expenses as determined from time to time by the Board of Supervisors. Such
officer shall have the powers and duties, and shall be subject to the penalties
as provided in 53 P.S. § 6913, V., VI., VII. of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989)
§ 34.006 INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% per annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 0.5% of
the amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof during which
the tax remains unpaid shall be added and collected.
   (B)   Where suit is brought for the recovery of any such tax, the person
liable therefor shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection and
the interest and penalties herein imposed.
      (1)   The tax officer is authorized to forgive penalty and interest
balances totaling less than $5 unless a late filing fee is also due.
      (2)   The tax officer is not authorized to use legal action (either wage
attachment or District Court) to pursue delinquent monies under $10. The
minimum delinquent monies for District Court action shall be $50.
      (3)   There shall be no extension for payment of taxes due. Delinquent
taxes may be paid over a period of time upon the signing of a time payment
agreement by both the tax officer and taxpayer.
      (4)   Any resident whose check is rejected by the bank for any reason
shall be charged a $10 fee and the check redeposited (unless the account is
closed or payment stopped). If a check is returned a second time, there shall
be an additional $20 charge and the resident shall be sent a certified mail
letter giving him or her ten days to make payment by cash or money order. The
tax officer shall prosecute for any appropriate offenses, including the passing
of bad checks, any resident who fails to do so.
      (5)   Any resident whose tax return is postmarked after April 15 and
received after April 20 shall be charged a late filing fee of $10.
      (6)   Any resident filing a federal extension of time for filing shall
file a copy with the tax office on or before April 15. Extension requests
postmarked after April 15 and received after April 20 shall not be honored. The
taxpayer shall be charged a late filing fee of $10 at the time of the filing of
his or her tax return.
      (7)   Since the reason for an extension of time request is that all
income/expense information has not been documented by April 15, extension
requests shall not be honored for any resident whose sole source of income is
wages (documented by a W-2 or 1099) with no allowable business expenses.
      (8)   Any resident who finds it necessary to file an additional time
extension request with the Internal Revenue Service shall file a copy with the
tax office on or before the expiration date of the initial request. Additional
time requests postmarked after the expiration date of the initial request and
received more than five days beyond that date will not be honored and a late
filing fee of $10 will be charged at the time of the filing of the taxpayer’s
tax return.
      (9)   Any employer whose quarterly withholding is postmarked after the
due date and is received more than five days past said due date shall be
charged a late filing fee of $10 plus penalty and interest.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989)
TAXATION UPON A TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY
§ 34.020 PREAMBLE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township, pursuant to the authority
contained in the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq. and the
Local Real Estate Transfer Tax, 72 P.S. § 8101-D and the Second Class Township
Code being 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., hereby enacts the following subchapter
levying, assessing and providing for the collection of a tax on the transfer of
an interest in real estate.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more person other than a
private trust or decedent’s estate.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States or any other state, territory, foreign country or dependency.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers, demises,
vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds  or trusts or other instruments of
like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release thereof to the
debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years, or instruments which solely grant, vest or confirm a public
utility easement. DOCUMENT shall also include a declaration of acquisition
required to be presented for recording under §
34.031.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION. A corporation of which at least 75% of its assets
are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75% of each class of
stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      (1)   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing;
      (2)   The raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
      (3)   Fur farming;
      (4)   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations; or
      (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, association or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term
PERSON as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   All lands, tenements or hereditaments within the township,
including without limitation buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals,
oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees and
other improvements, immovable or interests which by custom, usage or law pass
with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery and
equipment in an industrial plant;
      (2)   A condominium unit; and
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate, 90% or more of the
ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      (1)   Derives 60% or more of its annual gross receipts from the ownership
or disposition of real estate; or
      (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and actively traded as an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, or perpetual leasehold;
or
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which, either by reasons of the length of the term or the agent of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Springfield.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE.
      (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length
for actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor,
paid or to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing
before the transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying
indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where
such liens or other encumbrances and ground rents also encumbered or are
charged against other real estate; provided, that where such documents shall
set forth a nominal consideration, the VALUE thereof shall be determined from
the price set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale;
      (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon
the foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties or the real estate of an acquired company,
the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting the
assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for the
common level ratio factor developed by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue
for Pennsylvania realty transfer tax base calculations as established by the
State Tax Equalization Board;
      (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determined under division (1) or (2) above of this
definition, the actual monetary worth of such interest; or
      (4)   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principal of the grantor of a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.022 IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   (A)   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1% of
the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be
payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for recording or
within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an
acquired company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds whereon the
date of the payment of the tax, the amount of the tax and the signature of the
collecting agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations
prescribed in the Local Enabling Act, Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, 53
P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall
impose or hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer then
the tax levied by the township under the authority of that Act shall, during
the time such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, be one-half of the rate and such one-half rate shall become effective
without any action on the part of the township; provided, however, that the
township and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same
person or transfer may agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates
to one-half of the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively
different rates, the total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted
under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (D)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
in effect at the time the tax is due, shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.023 EXEMPT PARTIES.
   The United States, the Commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivision shall be exempt from payment of the tax
imposed by this subchapter. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall
not, however, relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the
tax.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.024 EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   Transactions excluded from the imposition of Realty Transfer Tax are those
enumerated in 72 P.S. § 8102-C.3, as amended. To exercise an exclusion set
forth in 72 P.S. § 8102-C.3, the procedure therein shall be followed.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.025 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, SHAREHOLDERS OR STOCKHOLDERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
34.024, documents which make, confirm or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this subchapter, corporations and associations are entities
separate from their members, partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.026 ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the Recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax
Declaration of Acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.027 CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by the builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be
allowed.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.028 DETERMINATION BY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
   Whenever the amount of tax due to the Commonwealth pursuant to 72 P.S. §§
8101-C et seq. upon final determination, redetermination or review by the
Department of Revenue, is more than the amount actually paid to the
Commonwealth on account thereof, such amount, including all interest or
penalties thereon, shall be deemed to be the amount due and payable to the
township pursuant to this subchapter and shall be collectable by the Recorder
of Deeds upon re-recording as hereinafter provided. If the amount of such tax
as finally determined is less than the amount actually paid, then upon
application to the township together with proof of payment and final
determination by the Department of Revenue, the township shall refund such
portion of the overpayment that the township actually received. All
applications for refunds must be received by the township within two years of
the date of payment for which a refund is requested.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.029 EXTENSION OF LEASE.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.030 PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before other obligation, claim,
lien judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which the sale
is made, except the state realty transfer tax, and the sheriff, or other
officer, conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed out of the
first monies paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the
sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall
be liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.031 DUTIES OF RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   (A)   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983
(P.L. 40, No. 21), the Recorder of Deeds shall be the collection agent for the
local realty transfer tax, including any amount payable to the township based
on a redetermination of the amount of tax due by the Commonwealth of the state
realty transfer tax, without compensation from the township.
   (B)   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the Recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   (C)   On or before the tenth of each month, the Recorder shall pay over to
the township all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2% for use of the
county, together with a report containing the information as is required by the
Commonwealth in reporting collections of the state realty transfer tax. The 2%
commission shall be paid to the county.
   (D)   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
Commonwealth, the Recorder shall re-record the deed or record the additional
realty transfer tax form only when both the state and local amounts and a re-
recording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.032 STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording, shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true,
full and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of
value executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing
such connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or
the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this
subchapter. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value
may be submitted for this purpose. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any excludable real estate transfer which are exempt from taxation
based on family relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of
stamps shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement
of value executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction
showing such connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value
thereof or the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.033 LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated,
wholly or in part within the boundaries of the township, which lands,
tenements, hereditaments or interest therein, are described in or conveyed by
or transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed
and levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax
under this subchapter is due and payable, and continue until discharge by
payment, or in accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file
a municipal or tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of the county, in
accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923,
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.034 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.035 REGULATIONS.
   The Tax Collector of the township is charged with enforcement and collection
of tax and is empowered to promulgate and enforce reasonable regulations for
enforcement and collection of the tax. The regulations which have been
promulgated by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue under 72 P.S. §§ 8101-
C et seq., to the extent they are applicable, are incorporated into and made a
part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 34.036 MILLAGE FREEZE.
   (A)   Exemption. Pursuant to Act 153 of 1996, as amended by Act 4 of 2006,
the Board of Supervisors of the township does hereby exempt real property
within the township that is subject to a conservation easement in accordance
with the Agricultural Area Security Law (Act of June 30, 1981 P.L. 128, No. 43)
from millage increases for the township taxes in the year 2007 which consist of
the following:
42-9-134-7
42-9-138-1
42-9-143
42-9-145
42-12-95
42-12-96
42-12-115
42-12-158
42-21-4
42-21-5
42-21-8
42-21-10
42-21-11
42-21-13
42-21-15-4
42-21-18
42-21-19
42-21-85
42-21-94
42-21-96
42-24-30
42-24-31
 
   (B)   Date of exemption. The millage freeze authorized by this section shall
apply to all eligible real properties located in the township (as identified in
division (A) above) as long as the real property met the criteria of this
section prior to or during the year 2006. However, as provided in § 1.B.4 of
Act 4 of 2006, this millage freeze shall only become effective when the
Palisades School District, in addition to the county and the township, has
enacted a resolution exempting from further tax millage increase properties
subject to a conservation easement established in accordance with the
Agricultural Security Law.
   (C)   Exemption for future agricultural conservation easements and future
tax years. Not withstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above, the
exemption from further tax millage increases shall apply to those properties
subjected to an agricultural conservation easement in accordance with the
Agricultural Security Law in future years. In addition, this tax millage freeze
shall apply to future tax years until the Board of Supervisors of the township
by an ordinance duly enacted, shall terminate the exemption from real estate
millage tax increases or until such time as the exemption is terminated by
operation of law. However, the exemption provided in this division (C) shall
only take effect when the county and the Palisades School District shall have
approved exemptions from tax millage increases consistent with this division
(C).
   (D)   Severability. The millage freeze authorized by this section shall
apply to all eligible real properties located in the township.
(Ord. 135, passed 11-14-2006)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 34.050 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and any supplements and amendments thereto, shall be known
and may be cited as the Springfield Township Local Services Tax Subchapter.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.051 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted under the authority of the Pennsylvania Local Tax
Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., as amended by Act 7 of 2007, 53 P.S.
§§ 6924.101 et seq.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.052 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 7. The Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.,
which was enacted on December 31, 1965, as amended.
   COLLECTOR. The person or agency appointed from time to time by the Township
Board of Supervisors to assess and collect the tax imposed and to administer
the provisions of this subchapter.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, governmental body, agency or any other entity employing one
or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, barter or other compensation
basis, including a self-employed person.
   FISCAL YEAR. The 12-month period beginning January 1 and ending December 31,
and each 12- month period thereafter.
   HE, HIS or HIM. Indicates the singular and plural as well as male, female
and neuter gender.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, over the age of 18 years, engaged in
any occupation, trade or profession within the corporate limits of the township
for any length of time in any given fiscal year.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, carried on or performed
within the corporate limits of the township for which compensation is charged
or received, whether by means of salary, wages, commission, barter or fees for
services rendered.
   PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION. The occupation which provides an individual with his
or her primary source of income.
   RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES. The United States Army Reserve,
United States Navy Reserve, United States Marine Corps Reserve, United States
Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army
National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
   TAX. The local services tax in the amount of $52 per individual per fiscal
year levied by this subchapter.
   TOWNSHIP. The area within the corporate limits of the Township of
Springfield, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.053 INCORPORATION OF STATUTE.
   The provisions of Act 511, as amended by Act 222 of 2004 and Act 7 of 2007,
53 P.S. §§ 6924 et seq. are incorporated in this subchapter by reference,
except as and where specifically and expressly provided otherwise.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.054 LEVY OF TAX; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2008, the township hereby levies and imposes on
each occupation engaged in by individuals within its corporate limits during
the fiscal year of 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter a local services tax in
the amount of $52 per annum. Each individual who engages in an occupation shall
pay the tax in the amount of $52 for the fiscal year in which the individual
has engaged in the occupation, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature
previously levied by the township. This tax shall continue in force on a
calendar year basis, without annual reenactment, unless the rate of the tax is
subsequently changed or this subchapter is repealed or amended.
   (B)   (1)   All persons deriving less than $12,000 per year in earned income
and net profits from all sources within the township are hereby exempt from
such local services tax. A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local
services tax shall execute a low income exemption certificate annually and file
it with the township and the person’s employer.
      (2)   The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all
of the employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the
township for the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is
requesting an exemption.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise
instructed by the township, the employer shall not withhold the tax from the
person during the calendar year or the remainder of the calendar year for which
the exemption certificate applies.
      (4)   Employers shall have exemption certificate forms available at all
times and shall provide them to new employees at the time of hiring.
   (C)   Any person who served in any war or armed conflict in which the United
States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under honorable
circumstances from active service shall be exempt from paying the local
services tax if, as a result of military service, the person is blind,
paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or has a service-connected
disability declared by the United States Veterans’ Administration or its
successor to be a total 100% permanent disability.
   (D)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the armed
forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year shall
be exempt from paying the local services tax.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.055 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS.
   (A)   Each employer who engages in business within the township is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting from each of his or her employees engaged
by him or her and performing for him or her within the township the tax of $52
per annum on a payroll based deduction basis and making a return and payment
thereof to the Collector.
   (B)   If the employer fails to file the return provided for elsewhere in
this subchapter and pay the tax, whether or not he or she makes collection
thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to the
employee, the employer shall be responsible for payment of the tax in full
without deducting a commission and as though the tax had originally been levied
against the employer.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.056 WITHHOLDING BY EMPLOYER; EMPLOYER’S RETURNS AND COMMISSIONS; ANNUAL
REPORT AND PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Each employer in the township is hereby required to deduct this tax
from each employee in his or her employ, whether the employee is paid by
salary, wages or commission and whether or not part or all of such services are
performed within the township.
   (B)   Taxes deducted from wages by an employer shall at all times be and
remain the property of the township and shall constitute a trust fund in the
employer’s hands until remitted to the Collector. Deduction of taxes from wages
shall, as between the employee and the township, constitute payment of the tax
by the employee, regardless of any insolvency or failure to remit on the
employer’s part.
   (C)   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of
the tax on forms to be supplied by the Collector.
   (D)   Each employer shall assess a pro rata share of the local services tax
for each payroll period in which the person is engaging in occupation in the
township. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a payroll
period shall be determined by dividing the combined rate of the local services
tax levied for the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established
by the employer for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata
share, an employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each
payroll period to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the
local services tax shall be made on a payroll period basis for each payroll
period in which the person is engaging in an occupation in the township.
   (E)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes to the
township within 30 days of the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
   (F)   Employers who withhold the local services tax shall deliver to an
individual employed in more than one jurisdiction evidence of deductions on a
form to be furnished to the employer by the Collector, which form shall be
evidence of deductions having been made and, when presented to any other
employer, shall be authority for such employer to not deduct this tax from the
employee’s wages, but to include such employee on his or her return by setting
forth his name, address and the name and address of the employer who deducted
this tax.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.057 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION.
   Each individual who shall have more than one occupation shall be subject to
the payment of this tax in only one jurisdiction per payroll period. If an
individual works in more than one taxing area, the priority of the claim to
collect the local services tax shall be in the following order: first, the
municipality in which a person maintains the person’s principal occupation or
is principally employed; second, the municipality in which the person resides
and works, if the tax is levied by that municipality; third, the municipality
in which a person is employed and which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the
person’s home. Employers who withhold the local services tax shall deliver to
an individual employed in more than one jurisdiction evidence of deductions on
a form to be furnished to the employer by the Collector which form shall be
evidence of deductions having been made and when presented to any other
employer shall be authority for such employer to not deduct this tax from the
employee’s wages, but to include such employee on his or her return by setting
forth his or her name, address and the name and address of the employer who
deducted this tax.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.058 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   All self-employed individuals who perform services of any type or kind or
engage in any occupation or profession within the township shall be required to
comply with this subchapter within 30 days of the end of each quarter of a
calendar year.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.059 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   The Collector shall accept and receive payments of this tax and shall
maintain a record showing the amount received by him or her from each employer,
together with the date on which the tax was received.
   (B)   The Collector shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of payment upon
request by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.060 RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAX; INTEREST AND PENALTY; EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates set forth in this subchapter, the township or
Collector may sue for the recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this
subchapter together with interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% per annum on the amount of the tax shall be calculated beginning with the
due date of the tax, and an additional penalty of 0.5% of the amount of the
unpaid tax shall be added and collected for each month or fraction thereof
during which the tax remains unpaid. Where suit is brought for the recovery of
this tax, the individual liable therefor shall, in addition, be responsible and
liable for the costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.061 NONRESIDENT EMPLOYERS.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their place
of business outside the township but who perform services of any type or kind,
or engage in any occupation or profession within the township do by virtue
thereof agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the township. Any individual
engaged in an occupation within the township and an employee of a nonresident
employer may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered a self-employed
person and in the event this tax is not paid, the township shall have the
option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for the collection
of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.062 EXAMINATION; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Collector or his or her duly authorized representative or agent is
hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll records of any employer in
order to verify the accuracy of any return made by an employer, or, if no
return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer is hereby directed and
required to give the Collector or his or her duly authorized representative or
agent the means, facilities and opportunity for such examinations.
   (B)   Any person who makes any false or untrue statement on any return
required by this subchapter, or who refuses inspection of his or her books,
records or accounts in his or her custody and control setting forth the number
of employees subject to this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever
fails or refuses to file any return required by this subchapter commits a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.063 REFUNDS, MINIMUMS AND INTEREST.
   (A)   An individual who has paid the local services tax to the Collector may
file a written request with the Collector for a refund or credit of the local
services tax. A request for a refund shall be made within one year after actual
payment of the local services tax.
   (B)   The Collector shall assess all written requests for refund of the
local services tax and provide a refund within 75 days of the receipt of the
written request to an individual who is due such refund. The Collector shall
only provide refunds for amounts overpaid in a calendar year that exceed $1.
   (C)   A refund provided pursuant to this section shall not be subject to
interest so long as the refund is provided within 75 days of the receipt of the
written request for the refund. Any refund provided 75 days or more after the
receipt of a written request for refund shall bear interest in accord with 53
Pa.C.S. § 8426.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.064 APPLICABILITY; VALIDITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
township to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation not
within the taxing power of the township under the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of the Commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held to be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or of
the laws of the Commonwealth as to any individual, such decision shall not
affect or impair the right to impose or collect the tax, or the validity of the
tax so imposed, on other persons or individuals as herein provided.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed on an occupation by the township and the Palisades School District
shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in Act 7 of 2007, 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq., and therefore the Palisades School District shall be entitled
to its share of the tax in accordance with the provisions of Act 7 of 2007, 53
P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.
   (D)   In accord with Act 7 of 2007, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., the
township shall use no less than 25% of the funds derived from the local
services tax for emergency services, which include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services. The remainder of the funds, if any, shall
be used for road construction and/or maintenance, reduction of property taxes
or property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and farmstead
exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F.
(Ord. 145, passed 12-11-2007)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Earned income taxation.
      (1)   Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to make any declaration
or return required by §§
34.001 through
34.006, any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to register or to pay the
tax deducted from his or her employees, or fails, neglects or refuses to deduct
or withhold the tax from his or her employees, any person who refuses to permit
the officer or any agent designated by him or her to examine his or her books,
records and papers, any person who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return, or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of his or her net profits or earned income in order to
avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed by §§
34.001 through
34.006, shall upon conviction therefor before any district justice of the
peace, or court of competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $2,500 for each offense, and costs and in default of payment, to be
imprisoned for a period not six months.
      (2)   Any person who divulges any information which is confidential under
the provisions of §§
34.001 through
34.006, shall, upon conviction therefor, before any district justice of the
peace, or court of competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $500 for each offense, and costs, and in default of payment, to be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding 60 days.
      (3)   The penalties imposed under this division (B) shall be in addition
to any other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
34.001 through
34.006
      (4)   The failure of any person to receive or procure forms required for
making the declaration or returns required by §§
34.001 through
34.006 shall not excuse him or her from making such declaration or return.
      (5)   Any employer required under this chapter to collect, account for
and distribute income taxes who willfully fails to collect or truthfully
account for and distribute income taxes, commits a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment
not exceeding two years, or both.
   (C)   Taxation upon a transfer of real property.
      (1)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by §§
34.020 through
34.035 is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50%
of the underpayment.
      (2)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under §§
34.020 through
34.035 on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure is
due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the amount of
such tax if the failure is for not more than one month, with an additional 5%
for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such failure
continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
   (D)   Local services tax.
      (1)   If the township or the Collector determines that a person has
committed or permitted the commission of a violation of §§
34.050 through
34.064, the township may institute summary criminal proceedings and/or may seek
equitable relief. In the event summary criminal proceedings are instituted, the
fine for the first offense shall be not less than $100 and not more than $600.
The fine for a second offense shall not be less than $300 and not more than
$600. The fine for a third or greater offense shall not be less than $500 and
not more than $600. Each day or portion thereof in which a violation exists
shall be considered a separate violation of §§
34.050 through
34.064. Each section of §§
34.050 through
34.064 which is violated shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   The amount of any fine imposed by a magisterial district judge or a
court shall be in addition to any other fine which may be imposed under any
other provisions of this code of ordinances of the township or under any
statute. In default of payment of any fine, such person shall be liable to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
      (3)   The action to enforce the provisions of §§
34.050 through
34.064 may be instituted against any person in charge of the business of any
employer who shall have failed or refused to file a return required by §§
34.050 through
34.064.
(Ord. 56, passed 12-9-1986; Ord. 79, passed 12-26-1989; Ord. 145, passed 12-11-
2007; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 35: TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Use of fire insurance proceeds
   
35.02   Imposition of attorney’s fees in connection with the collection of
delinquent municipal claims and accounts
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Use of fire insurance proceeds.
      (1)   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter
“insurers”) doing business in the Commonwealth shall pay a claim of a named
insured for fire damage to a structure located within the township where the
amount recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies
exceeds $7,500, unless the insurer is furnished by the Treasurer of the
township with a certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law
of 1921 as amended by Act 98 of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994 (collectively the
“Act”, being 40 P.S. § 638) and unless there is compliance with the procedures
set forth in §§ 508(c) and 508(d) of the Act.
      (2)   (a)   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or
user charges against the property (“municipal claims”), or there are expenses
which the township has incurred as costs for removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Secretary of the township shall immediately render a bill for
such work, if he or she has not already done so. Upon written request of the
named insured specifying the tax description of the property, the name and
address of the insurer and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report
of the claim, the Treasurer of the township shall furnish a certificate within
14 working days after the request to the insurer (or at his or her discretion
an oral notice confirmed in writing) either:
            1.   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or
            2.   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
         (b)   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
division (A)(2)(a)1. above, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of the
township an amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay said sums
prior to making payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of
division (A)(3) below.
      (3)   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to division (A)(2) above or when the Treasurer of the township has
issued a certificate described in division (A)(2)(a)1. above indicating that
there are no municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the
insurer shall pay the claim of the named insured.
      (4)   If the loss agreed upon by the named insured and the insurer equals
or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies
covering the building or structure, the procedures set forth in this division
(A)(4) shall apply in place of the procedure specified in division (A)(2)
above:
         (a)   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Treasurer of the township, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such
claim or fraction thereof.
         (b)   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the township, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under
the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of
the township from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
If there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro
rata basis by all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Secretary of the township shall do the following:
            1.   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the township to be
required in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as
required by this section. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the township in
connection with such removal, repair or securing any proceedings related
thereto;
            2.   Mail to the named insured at the address received from the
insurer a notice that the proceeds have been received by the township and that
the procedures under this division (A)(4)(c)2. shall be followed;
            3.   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the
township a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or
securing the building or other structure, in which event the Secretary of the
township shall, if such estimate is deemed by the Secretary of the township to
be reasonable, return to the insured the amount of the funds transferred to the
township in excess of that amount required to pay the municipal expenses;
provided, however, that the township has not commenced to remove, repair or
secure the building or other structure in which case the township will complete
the work;
            4.   Pay to the Secretary for reimbursement to the Township General
Fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the township;
            5.   Pay the remaining balance in the fund without interest to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Secretary of the
township that the repair, removal or securing of the building or other
structure has been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations of the township; and
            6.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
ability of the township to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal
claims or municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this subchapter, or to
insure proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the codes of the
township or to enter into an agreement with the named insured with regard to
such other disposition of the proceeds as the township may deem responsible.
   (B)   Limits of liability. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
make an insurance company, association or exchange liable for any amount in
excess of proceeds payable under its insurance policy or for any other act
performed pursuant to this section or to make the township or any public
official of the township an insured under a policy of insurance or to create an
obligation to pay delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal of liens or
expenses other than as provided in this section.
   (C)   Insurance company rights reserved. An insurance company, association
or exchange making payment of policy proceeds under this section for delinquent
taxes or structural removal liens or removal expenses incurred by the township
shall have a full benefit of such payment including all rights of subrogation
and of assignment.
   (D)   Construction. This section shall be liberally construed to accomplish
its purpose to deter the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage
the abandonment of property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
   (E)   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community Affairs. The
Solicitor of the township shall transmit an attested copy of this section
promptly to the Governor’s Center for Local Government Services.
(Ord. 161, passed 8-23-2011) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.02 IMPOSITION OF ATTORNEY’S FEES IN CONNECTION WITH THE COLLECTION OF
DELINQUENT MUNICIPAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Springfield Township Attorney's Fee Schedule Ordinance”.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The Township Board of Supervisors determines that this fee schedule
is fair and reasonable for the services to be rendered by its solicitor or
other legal counsel in the collection of delinquent municipal claims and
accounts. The Board hereby directs that the same be imposed, as applicable,
upon the affected property owners (the “owner”) and shall be imposed and
recovered as part of each municipal claim against the affected real property in
proceedings to recover delinquent municipal claims, together with any
additional out-of-pocket costs incurred by the township for necessary expenses
in connection therewith.
      (2)   Legal fees for the following services/actions shall be as follows.
         (a)   Municipal liens/claims.  Attorney’s fees in the amount of $250
shall be added to the total delinquent amount of each municipal lien filed by
the township in connection with the following legal services provided:
            1.   Prepare and file municipal lien;
            2.   Prepare order to satisfy and calculate payoff statements;
            3.   Prepare and mail correspondence;
            4.   Prepare proof of claim.
         (b)   Municipal claims.  Attorney’s fees for the collection of all
other municipal claims and delinquent accounts shall be determined by the
following table:
            1.   Attorney’s fees in the amount of $250 shall be assessed for
all claims not exceeding $1,000;
            2.   Attorney’s fees in the amount of $500 shall be assessed for
all claims in excess of $1,000 and not exceeding $2,500;
            3.   Attorney’s fees in the amount of $1,000 shall be assessed for
all claims in excess of $2,500 and not exceeding $5,000;
            4.   Attorney’s fees in the amount of $1,500 shall be assessed for
all claims in excess of $5,000 and not exceeding $7,500;
            5.   Attorney’s fees in the amount of $2,000 shall be assessed for
all claims in excess of $7,500 and not exceeding $10,000;
            6.   Attorney’s fees for claims in excess of $10,000 shall be
charged according to the standard charge of the solicitor to the township in
effect at the time of collection in connection with the following legal
services provided:
               a.   Prepare and file writ of scire facias;
               b.   Reissue writ;
               c.   Prepare and mail correspondence per Pa.R.C.P. 237.1;
               d.   Prepare motion for alternate service;
               e.   Prepare motion for summary judgment;
               f.   Prepare and file default judgment;
               g.   Prepare and file writ of execution for sheriff sale;
               h.   Attendance at sale and evaluate schedule of distribution
and resolve issues ancillary to sale;
               i.   Miscellaneous litigation.
   (C)   Municipal claim. For purposes of this part, the term MUNICIPAL CLAIM
shall mean any claim identified, defined, prescribed or provided for under 53
P.S. § 7106.
   (D)   Procedure for collection.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to assessing or imposing attorney’s fees in
connection with the collection of a delinquent account, the township shall by
United States certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, mail
to the owner the notice required by this division (D).
      (2)   If within 30 days of mailing the notice in accordance with division
(A), the certified mail is refused or unclaimed, or the return receipt is not
received, then at least ten days prior to assessing or imposing attorney’s fees
in connection with the collection of a delinquent account, the township shall,
by United States first-class mail, mail to the owner the notice required by
this division (D).
      (3)   The notice required by this section shall be mailed to the owner’s
last known post office address by virtue of the knowledge and information
possessed by the township and by the county office responsible for assessments
and revisions of taxes, it shall be the duty of the township to determine the
owner’s last post office address known to said collector and county assessment
office.
      (4)   The notice to the owner shall include the following:
         (a)   A statement of the township's intent to impose or assess
attorney’s fees within 30 days of mailing the notice pursuant to division (A),
or within ten days of the mailing of the notice pursuant to division (B);
         (b)   The manner in which the imposition or assessment of attorney’s
fees may be avoided by payment of the delinquent account.
(Ord. 208, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner of property, any named insured or insurer who violates the
provisions of §
35.01 or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof shall be
sentenced upon conviction thereof to pay a fine not greater than $1,000 plus
costs in any default of payment.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-28-1987; Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 161, passed 8-23-
2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Prohibited activities
   
50.04   Standards for collection and transportation
   
50.05   Licensing and registration requirements
   
50.06   Reporting requirements
   
50.07   Injunctive powers
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the Municipal Waste
Collection and Transportation Chapter of Springfield Township.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT 90. The Pennsylvania Waste Transportation Safety Act of 2002 (P.L.
596, No. 90, June 29, 2002), 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq.
      ACT 97. The Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act of 1980 (P.L. 380,
No. 97, July 7, 1980), 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.
      ACT 101. The Pennsylvania Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act of 1988 (Act 1988-101, July 28, 1988), 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et
seq.
      COLLECTOR or WASTE HAULER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
public agency who is engaged in the collection and/or transportation of
municipal waste and/or source-separated recyclable materials.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in a nonmanufacturing
or nonprocessing business, including, but not limited to, stores, markets,
offices, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
      COUNTY. The County of Bucks, Pennsylvania.
      DISPOSAL. The deposition, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that the solid
waste or a constituent of the solid waste enters the environment, is emitted
into the air or is discharged to the waters of this Commonwealth. Disposal
facilities include, but are not limited to, municipal waste landfills and
construction/demolition waste landfills as defined by Act 101 being 53 P.S. §§
4000.101 et seq., Act 97, being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., and/or PADEP rules
and regulations (25 Pa.Code Chapter 271).
      INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
production activities, including, but not limited to, factories, foundries,
mills, processing plants, refineries, mines and slaughterhouses.
      INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment or facility engaged in
services, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, schools and
universities.
      LEAF WASTE. Leaves, garden residues, shrubbery and tree trimmings, and
similar materials, but not including grass clippings.
      LICENSED COLLECTOR or LICENSED WASTE HAULER. A person who has written
authorization from the PADEP under Act 90, being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq.
to collect, haul, transport and dispose of municipal waste.
      MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office
waste and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained
gaseous material, resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial or institutional establishments and from community activities, and
any sludge not meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under Act
97, being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq. from a municipal, commercial or
institutional water supply treatment plant, wastewater treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility. The term does not include any source-separated
recyclable materials.
      MUNICIPALITY. Any of the 54 minor civil divisions in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
      PADEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, municipality, municipal authority, federal
government or agency, state institution or agency, or any other legal entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In any provisions of
this chapter prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty or any combination of
the foregoing, the term PERSON shall include the officers and directors of any
corporation or other legal entity having officers and directors.
      PROCESSING. Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or
bulk of municipal or residual waste or any technology used to convert part or
all of such materials for off-site reuse. Processing facilities include, but
are not limited to, transfer facilities, recycling facilities, composting
facilities and resource recovery facilities.
      RECYCLING. The collection, separation, recovery and sale or reuse of
metals, glass, paper, leaf waste, plastics and other materials which would
otherwise be disposed or processed as municipal waste or the mechanized
separation and treatment of municipal waste (other than through combustion) and
creation and recovery of reusable materials other than a fuel for the
generation of energy.
      SCAVENGING. The unauthorized and uncontrolled removal of any material
stored or placed at a point for subsequent collection or from a processing or
disposal facility.
      SOURCE-SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials, including leaf waste,
that are separated from municipal waste at the point of origin or generation
for the purpose of recycling.
      TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any municipal waste at any time
after generation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the singular shall include the plural
and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 50.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect and/or transport
municipal waste from any residential, public, commercial, industrial or
institutional establishment within the township without first securing written
authorization from the PADEP in accordance with the provisions of Act 90, being
27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, collect and/or transport
municipal waste or source-separated recyclable materials from any sources
within the township in a manner not in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, any applicable municipal ordinance, the Revised County Plan, Act 90
being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq., Act 101 being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.,
the minimum standards and requirements established in 25 Pa.Code Chapter 285 of
the PADEP Municipal Waste Management Regulations, any applicable County
Department of Health regulations, and/or any other federal, state or local
regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any material from any
municipal waste or source-separated recyclable materials that are stored or
placed for subsequent collection within the township without prior approval
from the municipality.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 STANDARDS FOR COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   All collectors or waste haulers operating within the township must comply
with the following minimum standards and regulations.
   (A)   All trucks or other vehicles used for collection and transportation of
municipal waste and/or source-separated recyclable materials must comply with
the applicable requirements of Act 90 being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq., Act
97 being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., Act 101 being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.
and PADEP regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et
seq. and Act 101 being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq., including the Title 25
Pa.Code Chapter 285, Subchapter B regulations for the collection and
transportation of municipal waste. All collection vehicles conveying municipal
waste and/or source-separated recyclable materials shall be operated and
maintained in a manner that will prevent creation of a nuisance or a hazard to
public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   All collection vehicles conveying putrescible municipal waste shall be
watertight and suitably enclosed to prevent leakage, roadside littering,
attraction of vectors and the creation of odors and other nuisances.
   (C)   All collection vehicles conveying nonputrescible municipal waste and/
or source-separated recyclable materials shall be capable of being enclosed or
covered to prevent litter and other nuisances.
   (D)   All collection vehicles conveying municipal waste and/or source-
separated recyclable materials shall bear signs identifying the name and
business address of the person or municipality which owns the vehicle and the
specific type of material transported by the vehicle. All such signs shall have
lettering which is at least six inches in height as required by Act 101 being
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.
   (E)   All collection vehicles and equipment used by collectors or waste
haulers shall be subject to inspection by the township or its authorized agents
at any reasonable hour without prior notification.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall collect or remove any municipal waste from within the
township without first obtaining written authorization from PADEP in accordance
with the provisions of Act 90, being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq. and providing
a copy of such written authorization to the township. This section shall not
apply to private individuals (e.g., homeowners) who wish to transport their own
household waste to PADEP approved facilities or recyclables to appropriate
recycling centers, nor to farmers, landscapers or nurserymen, who collect,
remove, haul or otherwise, transport agricultural or other organic waste
associated with their respective business activities.
   (B)   For a collector or waste hauler to collect and transport municipal
waste within the township, a collector or waste hauler shall submit a
registration form to the township which shall include a copy of their state
issued written authorization, and a copy of their Municipal and Residual Waste
Transporter Authorization Application (DEP form 2500-PM-BWM0015) along with any
of the following information that may be deemed appropriate by the
municipality:
      (1)   A list of collection vehicles covered under the written
authorization including, as a minimum, the following information for each
vehicle: identification information for each vehicle (such as vehicle license
number, vehicle registration number or company identification number); date and
location of most recent vehicle inspection; and hauling capacity of the
vehicle;
      (2)   The type of municipal waste to be collected and transported;
      (3)   Certificate(s) of insurance evidencing that the waste hauler or
collector has valid liability, automobile and worker’s compensation insurance
in the minimum amounts established and required by separate resolution of the
governing body of the municipality; and
      (4)   If they are hauling or collecting source-separated recyclable
materials in the municipality, identify the materials being hauled or collected
and provide the following information for each vehicle: identification
information for each vehicle (such as vehicle license number, vehicle
registration number or company identification number); date and location of
most recent vehicle inspection; and hauling capacity of the vehicle.
   (C)   Any person who fails to satisfy the minimum standards and requirements
of this chapter or is in violation of the provisions of this chapter may not
lawfully collect municipal waste or source-separated material in the township.
   (D)   All licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers shall meet the
requirements of Act 90 being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq., Act 97 being 35 P.S.
§§ 6018.101 et seq., Act 101 being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq., the County
Municipal Waste Management Plan and all PADEP rules and regulations (25 Pa.Code
Chapter 285).
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers and collectors and
haulers of source-separated recyclable materials operating within the township
shall participate in the County Municipal Recycling Documentation Program. The
program will provide a system for documenting the origin of municipal waste and
source-separated recyclable material by the municipality and the ultimate
disposal point of said waste and recyclables. Each licensed collector and
licensed waste hauler and collectors and haulers of source-separated recyclable
materials operating in the township shall prepare and submit an annual report
to the municipality on the official Collectors and Haulers Recyclables
Documentation Reporting Form. The report shall be submitted by the PADEP
licensed collector or licensed waste hauler and collectors and haulers of
source-separated recyclable materials to the township by January 31 of each
year and include all of the required information pertaining to the preceding
calendar year.
   (B)   All annual reports submitted to the municipality from licensed
collectors and licensed waste haulers and collectors and haulers of source-
separated recyclable materials shall be combined into a single report and
submitted by the municipality on the official Municipal Recyclables
Documentation Reporting Form to the county by February 28 of the year following
the reporting period.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 50.07 INJUNCTIVE POWERS.
   The township may petition the County Court of Common Pleas for an
injunction, either mandatory or prohibitive, in order to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues or each
section of this chapter which shall be found to have been violated shall
constitute a separate offense. For purposes of this section, the doing of any
act or thing prohibited by any provision of this chapter, or the failure to do
any act or thing as to which any provision of this chapter creates any
affirmative duty, shall constitute a violation of this chapter punishable as
herein stated. Licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers who shall violate
any provision of this chapter may be reported to the PADEP, by the township and
may be subject to the revocation of the state authorization to transport
municipal waste, as described in Act 90, being 27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq.
(Ord. 93, passed 12-30-1991; Ord. 139, passed 9-11-2007)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewage Management
   
51.01   Short title; introduction; purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Applicability
   
51.04   Permit requirements
   
51.05   Right of entry
   
51.06   Sewage system maintenance
   
51.07   Inspections
   
51.08   Operation
   
51.09   Sewage management priority
   
51.10   System rehabilitation; repair; replacement
   
51.11   Disposal of septage
   
51.12   In ground, drip irrigation and sand mound sewage systems
   
51.13   Individual residential spray irrigation systems (IRSIS)
   
51.14   Small flow treatment facilities (SFTF)
   
51.15   Holding tanks
   
51.16   Alternate and experimental systems
   
51.17   Community sewage systems
   
51.18   Replacement areas
   
51.19   Sewage maintenance agreements; fees
   
51.20   Administration
   
51.21   Appeals
On-Lot Sewage Systems
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Sewage Facilities Act implemented
   
51.37   Connections with individual sewage systems
   
51.38   Conformity to all regulations
   
51.39   Holding tanks
   
51.40   Individual residential spray irrigation systems
   
51.41   Small flow treatment facilities
   
51.42   Conventional sewage systems
   
51.43   Sewage maintenance agreements; fees
   
51.44   Additional rules and regulations authorized
Zion Hill
   
51.55   Generally
   
51.56   Definitions
   
51.57   Sewage Facilities Act
   
51.58   Connection to sewer system required
   
51.59   Sewer service regulations
   
51.60   Rules and regulations
   
51.61   Connection notice
   
51.62   Sewer rental
   
51.63   Material and specifications for sewer connections
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWAGE MANAGEMENT
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE; INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the Springfield Township Sewage
Management Ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority set forth in the
Second Class Township Code, the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law (35 P.S. §§
699.1 through 699.1001), and the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act of
January 24, 1966), P.L. 1535, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., also known
as Act 537. This subchapter is also adopted pursuant to the official Sewage
Facilities Plan adopted for the township pursuant to Act 537.
   (C)   This subchapter is intended to prevent and abate groundwater and
surface water pollution and the hazards to public health caused by the improper
treatment and disposal of sanitary sewage. This subchapter is further intended
to provide for the inventory and inspection of individual and community
sanitary sewage disposal systems within the township, which said inventory and
inspections are designed to provide for the adequate maintenance, management,
rehabilitation/repair/replacement and construction of sewage disposal systems;
to permit the township to intervene in events which are public nuisances or
hazards to the public health; and, to establish penalties and appeal procedures
necessary for the appropriate administration of the Township Sanitary Sewage
Disposal System Program.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT 537. The Act of January 4, 1966, P.L. 1535, as amended, 35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq., known as the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act.
      ALTERNATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A method of demonstrated on-lot sewage
treatment and disposal not described in 35 P.S. § 750.7 of the Pennsylvania
Sewage Facilities Act, which may be permitted by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection pursuant to 25 Pa.Code Chapter 73, § 73.72 of the
Sewage Facilities Act, as amended.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any representative of the township authorized by the
Board of Supervisors to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
      BCHD. Bucks County Health Department.
      BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township.
      CESSPOOL. A covered pit with open jointed lining which receives sanitary
sewage or other organic wastes directly from a building drain or building
sanitary sewer. It retains and allows liquid waste to pass through the bottom
and sides. This is an antiquated system which predates PADEP standards (25
Pa.Code Chapter 73).
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (CEO). An individual employed by the township to
administer and enforce ordinances in the township.
      COMMUNITY ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system of piping, tanks or other
facilities serving two or more lots or two or more equivalent dwelling units
and collecting, treating and disposing of sewage into a soil absorption area or
retaining tank located on one or more of the lots.
      COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection of sanitary sewage from two or more lots or two or more
equivalent dwelling units, and the treatment and/or disposal of the sewage on
one or more lots or at any other site.
      COMMUNITY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A publicly- or privately-owned community
sewage system which uses a method of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment,
and disposal other than renovation in a soil absorption area, or retention in a
retaining tank.
      CONVENTIONAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system employing the use of demonstrated
on-lot sewage treatment and disposal technology in a manner specifically
recognized by the regulations  promulgated under Act 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq. The term includes individual and community on-lot sewage systems,
including sand mounds.
      DEPARTMENT. Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania (PADEP).
      EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). An amount of sewage equal to the amount
usually and typically produced in a single-family dwelling unit, in volume,
strength and character. For the purpose of determining the number of lots in a
subdivision only as it relates to the determination of planning exemptions and
fees for planning module reviews under this subchapter, that part of a
multiple- family dwelling or commercial or industrial establishment with flows
equal to 400 gpd. These flow figures are not intended to be used for the
calculation of flows for the design of community sewage systems or for the
allocation of flows related to community sewage systems. Community sewage
system flows for design and permitting purposes shall be calculated using the
procedures established in the Department’s Domestic Wastewater Facilities
Manual (DEP-1357).
      EVIDENCE OF MALFUNCTION.
         (a)   Wet, murky conditions (not resulting from surface water runoff
or ponding) in areas designated as the absorption area of an on-lot sanitary
sewage disposal system. These conditions are typically accompanied by high
grass and/or increased growth in warm, dry months. In the winter, these areas
generally do not freeze and the area is typically spongy and soft. Snow does
not normally accumulate in these areas;
         (b)   There is a discharge of effluent directly or indirectly to the
surface of the ground through ponding, surface breakout or damp soils above the
disposal area or to a surface water of the Commonwealth;
         (c)   There is backup of sewage into the facility served by the system
or any component of the system as a result of an overloaded and/or clogged soil
absorption system or cesspool;
         (d)   The static liquid level in the distribution box is above the
level of the outlet invert;
         (e)   The liquid depth in a cesspool is less than six inches from the
inlet pipe invert or the remaining available volume within a cesspool above the
liquid depth is less than one-half of one day’s design flow;
         (f)   The septic tank or cesspool requires pumping more than four
times a year;
         (g)   Septic tank and/or the tight tank is cracked or is otherwise
structurally unsound, indicating that substantial infiltration or exfiltration
is occurring or is imminent; or
         (h)   Indications of previous repairs and/or extensions of the system
not permitted by the County Health Department, and/or evidence of recently
placed soil and/or dirt in the vicinity where the absorption area is located.
      EXPERIMENTAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A method of on-lot sewage treatment
and disposal not described in the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq. which is proposed for the purpose of testing and observation.
      GRAY WATER. Domestically generated liquid wastes, including kitchen and
laundry wastes that do not contain sewage.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. Bucks County Health Department (BCHD).
      HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle that receives and retains sewage
and is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage
at another site.
      INDIVIDUAL ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEM. An individual sewage system which uses a
system of piping, tanks or other facilities for collecting, treating and
disposing of sewage into a soil absorption area or spray field or by retention
in a retaining tank.
      INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL SPRAY IRRIGATION SYSTEM (IRSIS). An individual
sewage system permitted under 35 P.S. § 750.7 of the Sewage Facilities Act,
which serves a single dwelling and which treats and disposes of sewage
utilizing a system of piping, treatment tanks and soil application through
spray irrigation.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system of piping, tanks, or other facilities
serving a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage, in whole or in
part, into the soil or into waters of this Commonwealth, or by means of
conveyance to another site for disposal.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. An individual sewage system which uses a
method of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal other than
renovation in a soil absorption area, or retention in a retaining tank.
      LICENSED SEWAGE HAULER. A sewage hauler licensed by the Bucks County
Department of Health.
      LOT. A part of a subdivision or a parcel of land used as a building site
or intended to be used for building purposes, whether immediate or future.
      MAINTENANCE. Those actions required to provide for the long-term proper
functioning of any sanitary sewage disposal system, including, but not limited
to, the pumping of septage from a septic tank, cesspool or dry well and pump
tank; cleaning, pumping and/or leveling of a distribution box; removal of trees
or growth affecting the operation of an on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system;
diversion  of surface water away from an on-lot sanitary sewage disposal
system; and, reduction of flow from the structure being served (e.g.,
installation of water conservation devices).
      MALFUNCTION. The condition which occurs when on-lot sanitary sewage
disposal system discharges untreated or inadequately treated sewage onto the
surface of the ground, into groundwater, or into surface waters of the
Commonwealth. MALFUNCTION also occurs when sanitary sewage backs up into the
building connected to the system, or otherwise causes a nuisance or hazard to
the public health, pollution of the ground or surface water or contamination of
any public and/or private drinking water wells.
      MARGINAL CONDITIONS FOR LONG-TERM ON-LOT SEWAGE DISPOSAL. Conditions of a
site for use of on-lot sewage disposal facilities, as determined by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and/or the County
Department of Health, which may include: soil profile examinations which
document areas of suitable soil intermixed with areas of unsuitable soils; site
evaluation which documents soils generally suitable for elevated sand mounds,
with some potential lots with slopes over 12%; site evaluation which documents
soils generally suitable for inground systems, with some potential lots with
slopes in excess of 20%; or lot density of more than one EDU/acre.
      MUNICIPAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sanitary sewer system and/or the treatment
facility owned, operated or maintained by a municipality or municipal authority
approved by the Department under a permit issued to the Clean Streams Law, 35
P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
      MUNICIPALITY. Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
      NEW SYSTEM. The installation of an on-lot sewage disposal system on a
property where a system does not currently exist, or the installation of a
larger on-lot sewage disposal system in conjunction with the expanded use of an
existing structure after the effective date of this subchapter. A NEW SYSTEM
does not include replacement systems installed on properties with existing on-
lot sewage disposal systems where rehabilitation/repair efforts are required to
correct an existing malfunction.
      OFFICIAL SEWAGE FACILITIES ACT 537 PLAN. The plan adopted by the township
and approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection in
furtherance of the requirements as set forth in the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
      ON-LOT SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OLDS). Individual on-lot sewage
systems and community on-lot sewage systems.
      PADEP. Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
      PERSON. Any individual, company, association, public or private
corporation for profit or not for profit, partnership, firm, trust, estate,
department, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth, political subdivision,
municipality, district, authority or any other legal entity whatsoever which is
recognized by law as having rights and duties. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty or imposing a fine, the term PERSON shall
include the members of an association, partnership or firm and the officers of
any local agency or municipal, public or private corporation for profit or not
for profit.
      PUMPER/HAULER. Any person, as that term is defined in this subchapter,
who engages in cleaning community or individual sanitary sewage systems and
transports the septage removed from these systems for disposal, and, is
licensed by the County Health Department.
      PUMPER’S REPORT. Form used by licensed pumper/haulers to report pumping
of an on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system.
      REGISTRATION FORM. Form which shall be made available by the township for
property owners to register their on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system with
the township.
      REHABILITATION or REPAIR. Work completed pursuant to a permit issued by
BCHD to modify, alter or repair an existing on-lot sanitary sewage disposal
system or individual components thereof, including the enlargement of the total
absorption area, provided the flows from the structure being served are
unchanged or reduced.
      REPLACEMENT AREA. An area of a lot or property reserved for the
installation of a replacement sanitary sewage system in the event of the
malfunction of the originally installed on-lot sewage disposal system.
      REPLACEMENT SYSTEM. An on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system which
replaces a previously installed on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system which
cannot be repaired or rehabilitated to a condition acceptable to the County
Health Department.
      SEPTAGE. The residual scum and sludge pumped from septic systems.
      SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrement or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, and
any noxious or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public
health, or to animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic water
supply or for recreation, or which constitutes pollution under the Act of June
22, 1937 (P.L. 1987, No. 394), known as the Clean Streams Law, as amended, 35
P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.
      SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (SEP). A person certified by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection who issues and reviews permit
applications and/or conducts such investigations and inspections as are
necessary to implement the Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq.) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      SEWAGE FACILITIES. A system of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment
and disposal which will prevent the discharge of untreated or inadequately
treated sewage or other waste into waters  of the Commonwealth or otherwise
provide for the safe and sanitary treatment and disposal of sewage or other
waste.
      SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A comprehensive set of legal and
administrative requirements encompassing the requirements of this subchapter
and other administrative requirements adopted by the township to effectively
enforce and administer the subchapter, and to implement the sewage facilities
plan.
      SMALL FLOW TREATMENT FACILITY. An individual or community sewage system
designed to adequately treat sewage flows not greater than 2,000 gallons per
day for final disposal using a stream discharge or discharge to the surface of
the ground.
      SUBDIVISION. As defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as amended.
      SUBDIVISION, LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. Involves relocation of one or more
existing boundary line(s) between two adjacent lots, or the shifting of
boundary lines to increase the area of an existing lot; provided; however, that
the lot line adjustment subdivision results in the same or fewer number of lots
than existed prior to the lot line adjustment subdivisions.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. The first division or redivision of a lot, tract or
parcel of land existing on the date of adoption of Ord. 12 on March 16, 1971 by
any means into not more than two lots; or a lot line subdivision.
      TOWNSHIP. Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
      WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds, springs and all other bodies or channels of conveyance
of surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or
artificial, within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
      ZONING OFFICER. An individual employed by the township to administer and
enforce the Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   All definitions included in Act 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq. and the
Clean Streams Act, as amended, are hereby incorporated by reference into this
subchapter.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all existing and
proposed individual and community sewage disposal systems within the township
after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   All new individual and community sewage systems shall be required to
file a registration form with the township prior to the issuance of a building
permit for the use of the structure being served by the on-lot sanitary sewage
disposal system.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall install, award a contract for construction, construct
or alter an individual or community on-lot sewage system, or install,
construct, occupy, or use a building or structure to be served by that system
without first obtaining a permit from Bucks County Health Department (BCHD)
confirming that the system is in compliance with the provisions of the Clean
Stream Law (35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001) and the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) and any and all regulations adopted
pursuant to those Acts.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained from the Bucks County Department of Health
for alterations or connections to an existing individual or community on-lot
sewage disposal system when the alteration or connection requires the repair,
replacement or enlargement of a treatment tank or retention tank, or the
repair, replacement, disturbance, modification or enlargement of a soil
absorption area or spray field, or the soil within or under the soil absorption
area or spray field.
   (C)   No system or structure designed for individual or community sanitary
sewage disposal or for rehabilitation, repair and/or replacement to or of an
existing sewage disposal system shall be covered from view until final
inspection and approval by BCHD.
   (D)   Applicants for individual or community sanitary sewage disposal system
permits shall notify BCHD of the schedule for construction or rehabilitation,
repair and/or replacement of the permitted sewage disposal system so the
appropriate inspection(s) may be scheduled and performed by the BCHD.
   (E)   No building or occupancy permit shall be issued by the township for a
new building which will contain sewage generating facilities until a valid
sanitary sewer permit has been obtained from BCHD, and a registration form is
filed with the township.
   (F)   No building permit shall be issued by the township for any building
addition, alteration or change in use which may result in increased sewage
flows until approval of use of the existing sewage system has been received
from BCHD. The township must receive notification by BCHD of all permits issued
and final inspections performed in the township. A copy of the BCHD permit,
site plan and design of the proposed sewage disposal system shall be filed with
the township.
   (G)   No occupancy permit shall be issued by the township for any new
building until BCHD has informed the township that the newly constructed
sanitary sewage system has been completed, and has had a final inspection.
   (H)   Individual or community sewage disposal system permits may only be
issued by BCHD or PADEP as applicable.
   (I)   All new structures served by individual or community sewage systems
shall install water conservation devices and fixtures, in compliance with the
provisions of the Uniform Construction Code.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Authorized persons acting on behalf of the township shall, upon
presentation of proper credentials and identification, be permitted to enter
upon the outside of the property that contains an individual or community
sanitary sewage disposal system for the purpose of inspecting, observing,
photographing and sampling the sewage disposal system, in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The township shall provide advance notice to the property owner of the
individual or community sewage disposal system prior to inspection.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 SEWAGE SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   With the exception of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) of this section,
all sewage facilities shall be pumped out by a licensed sewage hauler selected
by the property owner, at least once every three years or whenever inspection
reveals that the treatment tanks are filled with solids in excess of one-third
of the liquid depth of the tank or with scum in excess of one-third of the
liquid depth of the tank. For a new system, the three-year time period shall
begin when the system is approved for use by BCHD. The property owner shall
provide the township with a receipt documenting the date on which the septic
tank was cleaned within 30 days of the occurrence.
      (1)   After at least one proof of pumping as required in division (A) of
this section, OLDS serving lots or structures with no occupants shall be exempt
from further pumping until such time as the property or structure is
reoccupied, at which time a new three year period shall begin. Reoccupancy
without notifying the township shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   After at least one proof of pumping as required in division (A) of
this section, OLDS serving lots that become vacant prior to the date of the
next required pump may have the pumping period suspended during the period of
nonoccupancy. The minimum period of nonoccupancy that will be suspended is 90
consecutive days. Reoccupancy without notifying the township shall constitute a
violation.
      (3)   After at least one proof of pumping as required in division (A) of
this section, OLDS with septic tanks in good repair of at least 1,000 gallons
and inhabited by not more than two persons shall pump every five years, unless
inspection reveals that the treatment tanks are filled with solids in excess of
one-third of the liquid depth of the tank or with scum in excess of one-third
of the liquid depth of the tank. This exemption shall expire upon issuance of a
certificate of occupancy in accordance with §
154.1204.3.B of this Code. Upon expiration of the exemption, unless the owner
of record makes a new application for exemption, the pump period shall revert
to three years from the date of the last pump. If requested, the start date of
the new exemption shall commence on the same date as the exemption previously
granted.
      (4)   After at least one proof of pumping as required in division (A) of
this section, OLDS serving lots that have razed or demolished the principle
structure with a valid permit from the township are exempt from further action
until such time as a new certificate of occupancy is granted. The pumping
period shall be suspended from the date of the demolition permit until a new
certificate of occupancy is granted.
      (5)   Lot owners shall provide an affidavit attesting to the facts under
which an exemption is claimed. Failure to provide an affidavit within 60 days
of the commencement of the qualifying event shall constitute denial of the
exemption.
   (B)   Surface contouring (grades) and other measures consistent with 25
Pa.Code Chapter 73, shall be maintained to divert stormwater away from
treatment facilities and absorption areas and protect absorption areas from
physical damage.
   (C)   Sand filters included within IRSIS, SFTF or other approved sewage
system shall also be inspected by the property owner and repaired if necessary
at least once every year.
   (D)   Where applicable pursuant to §
51.18(A), the sewage system shall be maintained in accordance with provisions
of the operation and maintenance agreement executed for the system.
   (E)   Emergency repair or replacement of system components without prior
approval/permit from BCHD shall be limited to pumping of a septic tank, tight
tank or cesspool as frequently as necessary to prevent backup or breakout.
   (F)   All emergency repairs other than pumping shall be in accordance with
requirements, and where applicable permit approval, from BCHD.
   (G)   Any non-routine maintenance or repairs required to the system must be
reported to the Bucks County Department of Health and township by the property
owner for approval/permit.
(Ord. 196, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 51.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All individual and community sanitary sewage disposal systems
regulated by this subchapter may be inspected by an authorized agent of the
township as established by separate resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The
inspection may include the taking of samples from surface water, wells or other
groundwater sources, and/or the sampling of the contents of the sanitary sewage
disposal system. A copy of the report of the inspection shall be furnished to
the property owner.
   (B)   In the event inspection is denied by the property owner, the township
shall be authorized to take such steps as are appropriate to secure access to
the property for the purpose of determining compliance with the terms and
conditions of this subchapter. Steps shall include, but not be limited to, the
seeking of an administrative search warrant from the appropriate judicial
official.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.08 OPERATION.
   (A)   No property owner shall operate and maintain an individual or
community sanitary sewage disposal system in such a manner that it
malfunctions. No system shall discharge untreated or partially treated sanitary
sewage to the surface of the ground or into the waters of the Commonwealth (as
defined in §
51.02).
   (B)   All property owners with gray water discharges to the ground surface
shall correct such discharges and route the gray water to the sanitary sewer
disposal system. All rerouting and connections of gray water discharge to the
sanitary sewage disposal system shall be in accordance with requirements of
BCHD. Gray water discharges are a violation of the 25 Pa.Code § 73.11,
Environmental Protection, and may also be a violation of 35 P.S. §§ 691.202 and
691.207 of the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law, if the discharge is to any
waters of the Commonwealth (as defined herein). All violations shall be
referred to BCHD.
   (C)   (1)   Only normal domestic wastes shall be discharged into any on-lot
sewage disposal system.
      (2)   The following shall not be discharged into the system:
         (a)   Industrial waste;
         (b)   Automobile oil and other non-domestic oil;
         (c)   Toxic or hazardous substances or chemicals, including, but not
limited to, pesticides, disinfectants (excluding household cleaners), acids,
paints, paint thinners, herbicides, gasoline and other solvents; and
         (d)   Clean surface or groundwater, including water from roof or
cellar drains, springs, basement sump pumps and french drains.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PRIORITY.
   (A)   All lots, existing or proposed, on which sewage is generated must
employ individual or community sewage disposal. The highest priority method of
sewage disposal set forth in the following table that can be technically and
administratively implemented on the subject property must be utilized for new
systems and repair situations. If disposal cannot be provided by higher-ranked
method than proposed, the applicant must submit a written explanation of the
reasons why the given lot is not suitable for these higher-ranked methods,
along with the appropriate supporting data. A decrease in the number of
dwelling units, businesses and/or establishments that could be served by a
certain method of sewage disposal upon the subject property shall not
constitute a valid reason why a higher ranked method is not utilized in favor
of a lower priority method. An applicant must show that the higher rank methods
of sewage disposal will not function upon the subject property; and must
demonstrate that the proposed system will not degrade surface or groundwater
for its intended use for drinking water or wildlife habitat before proposing to
employ a lower-ranked method.
   (B)   Sewage management priority table:
Sewage Management Priority Table
Sewage Management Priority Table
1. Individual on-lot sub-surface sewage disposal
2. Individual on-lot elevated sand mound
3. Individual on-lot residential spray irrigation system (IRSIS)
4. Individual on-lot alternate system
5. Community on-lot subsurface sewage disposal
6. Community on-lot elevated sand mound
7. Community on-lot spray irrigation system
8. Small flow treatment facility with stream discharge
9. Experimental system or other system not listed above
10. Holding tank
 
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.10 SYSTEM REHABILITATION; REPAIR; REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   If BCHD determines that any individual or community sewage disposal
system is malfunctioning and, further, if the property abuts or fronts an
existing municipal sewer, then BCHD shall require that property be connected to
the municipal sewer, at the property owner’s sole cost and expense. Under those
circumstances, BCHD will not issue a permit for the repair of a malfunctioning
on-lot sewage disposal system.
   (B)   If any individual or community sewage disposal system is observed to
be malfunctioning, the township will notify BCHD. The township must be notified
by BCHD of all permits issued for repair of the system, and final inspections
performed.
   (C)   Should BCHD indicate that it is not possible to repair or modify the
system to comply with PADEP’s standards for sewage disposal systems, then the
property owner shall be required to have a replacement individual or community
sewage disposal system designed for the property. The highest priority method
of sewage disposal as listed above shall be utilized for the replacement
system. Design shall conform to current regulations as promulgated by the PADEP
and these regulations.
   (D)   BCHD may require the repair/rehabilitation/replacement of any
malfunction by the following methods; cleaning, repair or replacement of
components of the existing system, adding capacity or otherwise altering or
replacing the system’s treatment tank, expanding the existing disposal area,
replacing the existing disposal area, replacing a gravity distribution system
with a pressurized system, and such other alternatives as appropriate for the
specific site, including use of reservation areas.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.11 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   (A)   All septage pumper/haulers operating within the township shall be
licensed by BCHD/PADEP, as applicable.
   (B)   All septage shall be disposed of in accordance with the requirements
of the Solid Waste Management Act (Act 97 of 1980, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.)
and all other applicable laws and at sites or facilities approved by PADEP.
Approved sites or facilities shall include the following: septage treatment
facilities, wastewater treatment plants, composting sites and approved farm
lands.
   (C)   Pumpers/haulers of septage shall operate in a manner consistent with
the provisions of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act (Act 97 of 1980,
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 through 6018.1003) and all other applicable laws.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.12 IN GROUND, DRIP IRRIGATION AND SAND MOUND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The owner of a property that utilizes an in ground, drip irrigation or
sand mound system shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Sewage Facilities Act,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations of the BCDH and PADEP, and
all applicable regulations and statues of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   For proposed drip irrigation systems and sand mounds in marginal
conditions for long-term on-lot sewage disposal, execute an agreement with the
township to hold the township harmless in the event of a claim against the
township arising from the operation and maintenance of the system, and
furthermore, pay a nonrefundable fee to the township for township costs of
administration, compliance monitoring and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   No portion of the sewage system property line or easement horizontal
isolation distance, required pursuant to 25 Pa.Code Chapter 73 (Standards for
Sewage Disposal Facilities), may be located on any lot or property other than
the parcel containing that system.
   (C)   No livestock or any type or equipment heavier than a common riding
mower/garden tractor shall be allowed upon the absorption area of any sewage
system.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.13 INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL SPRAY IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (IRSIS).
   (A)   Generally. The owner of a property utilizing an individual spray
irrigation system (IRSIS) shall:
      (1)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this and any
other applicable ordinances of the township, the act and rules and regulations
of the Bucks County Department of Health and Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, and all applicable statutes of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township
harmless in the event of a claim against the township arising from the
operation and maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable
fee to the township for township costs of administration, compliance monitoring
and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Design requirements.
      (1)   The wetted perimeter of the primary spray field shall not encroach
within the required minimum front, side, or rear yard setback designated by the
Township Zoning Ordinance, except in the case of a repair of an existing
system.
      (2)   No portion of the sewage system property line or easement
horizontal isolation distance, required pursuant to 25 Pa.Code Chapter 73
(Standards for Sewage Disposal Facilities), may be located on any lot or
property other than the parcel containing the IRSIS.
      (3)   No portion of the sewage system may encroach within a floodplain,
riparian buffer or wetland.
      (4)   Buffering:
         (a)   Whenever the wetted perimeter of the spray irrigation field is
located within 50 feet of the property boundary, a Type 4 buffer as specified
in § 503 of the Zoning Ordinance is required except that a solid fence shall
not be required;
         (b)   Buffer plant material shall conform to requirements of § 516 of
the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, as amended; and
         (c)   Where natural features/vegetation exists on the site, which
duplicate, or essentially duplicate, requirements for buffering, buffer
requirements may be waived or reduced by the Board of Supervisors.
      (5)   Spray irrigation of the treated effluent shall be permitted only
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 SMALL FLOW TREATMENT FACILITIES (SFTF).
   (A)   The owner of a property that utilizes a small flow treatment facility
shall:
      (1)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this and any
other applicable ordinance of the township, the Act and the rules and
regulations of the County Department of Health, and the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection, and all applicable statutes of the Commonwealth;
and
      (2)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township
harmless in the event of a claim against the township arising from the
operation and maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable
fee to the township for township cost of administration, compliance monitoring
and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   No component of a SFTF, including discharge line, may be located on
any lot or property other than the parcel containing the facility unless
authorized by the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   If municipal sewer service becomes available for a property utilizing
a small flow treatment facility, each and every owner of such property shall be
required to make the necessary connection to the abutting or adjoining sewer
lines. Small flow treatment facility must be disconnected and disposed of in
accordance with applicable Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
and the County Department of Health rules and regulations.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 HOLDING TANKS.
   (A)   Generally. Every person who owns a property within the township on
which a holding tank is located and every person who applies for a building
permit to construct a new residence or other building which is to be serviced
by a holding tank for which a County Department of Health permit is issued
after the effective date of this subchapter, shall comply with the provisions
of this section as hereafter set forth.
   (B)   Required. Every person who owns a property within the township on
which a holding tank is located shall:
      (1)   Have the holding tank of the property pumped prior to or when the
holding tank has reached 75% of designed capacity; and
      (2)   Annually provide the township with proof of a pumping and/or
hauling contract with a DEP certified hauler licensed by the County Health
Department.
   (C)   Procedure for obtaining a holding tank permit; rehabilitation of a
holding tank or change in ownership of a holding tank.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a use and occupancy permit involving new
construction, and in the case where no prior security has been posted to secure
the costs of future operation and maintenance of a holding tank, then also
involving rehabilitation of a holding tank, resale of the property or change of
tenants in a dwelling using a holding tank, the owner shall:
         (a)   Obtain verification from the County Development of Health
indicating that the site is generally suitable for installation of a holding
tank;
         (b)   File copy of the site plan and design of the proposed holding
tank with the township;
         (c)   Submit such additional information on size, location or
otherwise as the township may require in order to complete a review;
         (d)   Pay a fee to the township for the holding tank permit in
accordance with the appropriate resolution as adopted by the Board of
Supervisors from time to time;
         (e)   Execute an agreement for maintenance and hold the township
harmless in the event of a claim against the township arising from the
operation of the holding tank (refer to division (D) below); and
         (f)   Deposit and/or post permanent escrow funds in the form and/or
amount as provided by the holding tank maintenance agreement. These funds are
to be held by the township and used only in the event the township is required
to perform any services, or pay for any services, relative to the holding tank.
Board of Supervisors shall have the right to claim the entire escrow deposit as
reimbursement for township expenses.
      (2)   A permit issued under the terms of this agreement shall become null
and void if the holding tank installation has not been completed to the
satisfaction of the township within two years of the date of issuance.
   (D)   Holding tank maintenance agreement. The owner of a property that
utilizes a holding tank shall execute a maintenance agreement approved by the
township to ensure compliance with the regulations and standards of operation
and maintenance of the system. The escrow or other security shall be sufficient
to cover the cost of the future operation and maintenance of the system over
its design life up to a maximum of 50% for each of the first two years of
operation and not more than 10% for each year thereafter of the equipment and
installation cost of the system.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.16 ALTERNATE AND EXPERIMENTAL SYSTEMS.
   The owner of a property that utilizes an alternate system shall comply with
the following:
   (A)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this subchapter
and any other ordinance of the township, the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations of the BCDH and PADEP, and all
applicable regulations and statues of the Commonwealth; and
   (B)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township harmless
in the event of a claim against the township arising from the operation and
maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable fee to the
township for township cost of administration, compliance monitoring and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   All community sewage systems shall comply with the following, along with any
specific requirements of the sewage system type listed in the above sections:
   (A)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this subchapter
and any other ordinance of the township, the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations of the BCDH and PADEP, and all
applicable regulations and statutes of the Commonwealth;
   (B)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township harmless
in the event of a claim against the township arising from the operation and
maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable fee to the
township for township cost of administration, compliance monitoring and
enforcement of this subchapter;
   (C)   Seepage bed(s) (including toe of sand mound slope) or the wetted
perimeter of a spray field shall not encroach within the required minimum
front, side or rear yard setback designated by the Township Zoning Ordinance or
100 feet of a property boundary, whichever setback distance is greater;
   (D)   No portion of the sewage system property line or easement horizontal
isolation distance required pursuant to 25 Pa.Code Chapter 73 (Standards for
Sewage Disposal Facilities), may be located on any lot or property other than
the lot containing the system;
   (E)   Buffering: all community sewage systems shall be buffered as follows:
      (1)   A Type 2 buffer as specified in § 503 of the Zoning Ordinance is
required around the perimeter of the community sewage system including the
disposal area;
      (2)   A fence at least four feet in height of material approved by the
township installed along the entire length of the property line;
      (3)   Buffer plant materials shall conform to requirements of § 516 of
the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, as amended; and
      (4)   Where full grown trees exist on the site which duplicates the
requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter may
be waived or reduced by the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   No livestock of any type or equipment heavier than a common riding
mower/garden tractor shall be allowed upon the absorption area of any community
sewage system; and
   (G)   Replacement sewage disposal area is required and shall be in
accordance with §
51.18.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.18 REPLACEMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Replacement sewage disposal areas required. Where replacement sewage
disposal areas are required by the Zoning Ordinance, the following requirements
shall be met.
      (1)   Any proposed replacement area shall comply with this subchapter,
any other township ordinance, the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq., the rules and regulations of the BCDH and PADEP, and all applicable
regulations and statutes of the Commonwealth, including, but not limited to,
isolation distances.
      (2)   Allowance of open land for the replacement area, without the
performance of appropriate soil testing to verify suitability of the land for a
replacement area, shall not constitute compliance with the requirements of this
section.
      (3)   Every replacement area shall be protected by a deed restriction or
recorded easement that contains the following restrictions.
         (a)   No grading or other improvements, whether permanent or
temporary, shall be permitted upon or within the replacement area.
         (b)   No permanent or temporary alterations, grading, excavation,
stockpiling of any soil or any other material shall take place on or in the
replacement area.
         (c)   During any construction or other activities, the replacement
area shall be marked and blocked off by construction fencing to prevent
equipment with greater wheel loadings than a common riding mower/garden tractor
from traveling over or operating upon the surface of the replacement area.
         (d)   The final cover or improvement to every replacement area shall
be limited to shallow rooted plant material.
         (e)   Replacement area shall be protected from livestock pasture/
grazing.
   (B)   Identification of replacement area within new subdivisions.
      (1)   Any applicant who proposes to install an individual or community
sewage system within a subdivision submitted after the effective date of this
subchapter shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the township that a
suitable replacement area exists on the same lot as the proposed sewage system.
The township or BCDH shall observe all tests required to identify the proper
location for the replacement area.
      (2)   The location of the replacement area, as confirmed by the township,
shall be identified on the plot plans and diagrams submitted as part of any
permit, subdivision, land development or planning module application.
      (3)   Replacement areas for individual sewage systems may encroach within
front, side and rear yard setbacks as established by the Zoning Ordinance;
however, must be consistent with environmental protection standards of the
Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   Replacement areas for community sewage systems shall not encroach
within the required minimum front, side or rear yard setbacks designated by the
Township Zoning Ordinance or within 50 feet of a property boundary, whichever
setback is greater.
      (5)   Any revisions to a permit or plan affecting a previously approved
replacement area shall be reviewed for approval by the Board of Supervisors or
its authorized representative.
      (6)   If a replacement area has been already identified upon a lot or
parcel, an applicant may attempt to identify, to the township’s satisfaction,
an alternate replacement area upon the lot or parcel. The alternate replacement
area shall comply with this subchapter. When an alternate replacement area is
identified, the alternate replacement area may be considered as such for the
purposes of this subchapter, as long as it meets all the requirements and
protections of this subchapter.
   (C)   Subdivision/land development restrictions.
      (1)   All applications for subdivision or land development shall provide
for a replacement area(s) upon its plan(s) and shall place a note upon the
approved record plans stating that no improvements shall be constructed upon
and no alterations shall be made to any replacement area. The applicant shall
also execute and record new or corrected deeds for each lot created by or a
part of the subdivision or land development that contain language protecting
the replacement area within the lots boundaries.
      (2)   The subdivision/land development plan shall also note and
specifically require the replacement area be marked and physically blocked off
to prevent equipment with greater wheel loadings than a common riding mower/
garden tractor from traveling over or operating upon the surface of the
replacement area. The plan shall require the final cover or improvement to
every replacement area to be limited to shallow-rooted plant matter.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.19 SEWAGE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS; FEES.
   (A)   All owners of property or persons who propose utilizing an individual
spray irrigation system, small flow treatment facility, community on-lot sewage
disposal facility, alternate or experimental sewage disposal facility or sewage
disposal facility on sites containing marginal conditions for on-lot sewage
disposal shall execute a sewage facilities operation and maintenance agreement
with the township. The agreement will contain system specific requirement for
the proposed system type. The agreement shall further provide for deposit of a
nonrefundable fee to the township for administration and future compliance
monitoring; and provide for sufficient financial security to guarantee the
proper operation and maintenance of the proposed facility in accordance with
the Act, which may include cash, letter of credit, or other township approved
financial security. The amount of financial security to guarantee the proper
operation and maintenance of the proposed facility shall be established by
separate resolution of the Board of Supervisors, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Prior to execution of an operation and maintenance agreement by the
township, the property owner shall accomplish the following items:
      (1)   The applicant shall obtain verification from the County Department
of Health indicating that the site is generally suitable for installation of an
on-lot sewage disposal facility as proposed;
      (2)   A fee in an amount established by separate resolution of the Board
of Supervisors, as amended from time to time, shall be paid to the township for
review of submitted documentation, and preparation of the operation and
maintenance agreement; and
      (3)   The applicant shall deposit financial security as required by the
operation and maintenance agreement, to be held by the township and used only
in the event that the township is required to perform any services, or pay for
any services, relative to administering terms of the operation and maintenance
agreement. Financial security amount for community sewage systems shall be
established by the township based on the size of the system and an estimate of
annual operation and maintenance costs submitted by the design engineer and
approved by the township.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.20 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The township shall be authorized to exercise the powers conferred upon
it pursuant to the terms and conditions of this subchapter or any other
applicable laws of the county, state and federal government.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may establish fees, by resolution, the
purpose of which is to defray the cost of inspections and other aspects of the
sewage management program as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 51.21 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any property owner aggrieved by the written decision of a township
employee or other authorized agent of the township pursuant to this subchapter
may appeal the decision by written notification to the Board of Supervisors,
provided that the appeal notification shall be filed within 30 days from the
date of the decision at issue.
   (B)   The property owner and/or person filing an appeal shall be entitled to
a hearing before the Board of Supervisors, or its designee, within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal. Either party, by good cause shown, may extend the time
for a hearing but a decision shall be left to the discretion of the Board of
Supervisors, or its designee. A hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of the Pennsylvania Local Agency Act, being 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 and
751 to 754 and a decision shall be rendered, in writing, within 45 days of the
conclusion of the hearing and all proceedings related thereto. If the Board of
Supervisors or its designee shall fail to render a decision within 45 days
following the conclusion of all proceedings related to the hearing, then the
relief sought by the property owner and/or person filing the appeal shall be
deemed granted. Any property owner and/or person aggrieved by a decision of the
Board of Supervisors or its designee may, within 30 days after such decision of
the Board, file an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of the county.
(Ord. 167, passed 8-27-2013)
ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through
750.20).
   COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEMS. Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection of sewage from two or more lots, or the disposal of the
sewage on one or more lots or at any other site.
   CONVENTIONAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system employing the use of demonstrated on-
lot sewage treatment and disposal technology in a manner specifically
recognized by the regulations promulgated under the Act. The term includes
individual or community on-lot sewage systems including sand mounds.
   DEPARTMENT. Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate the ultimate disposal of the sewage
at another site. HOLDING TANKS include, but are not limited to the following.
      (1)   CHEMICAL TOILET. Toilet using chemicals that discharge into a
holding tank.
      (2)   PRIVY. Holding tank designed to receive sewage where water under
pressure is not available.
      (3)   RETENTION TANK. Holding tank to which sewage is conveyed by a water
carrying system.
   INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL SPRAY IRRIGATION SYSTEM (IRSIS). An individual sewage
system permitted under 35 P.S. § 750.7 of the Sewage Facilities Act, which
serves a single dwelling and which treats and disposes of sewage using a system
of piping, treatment tanks and soil renovation through spray irrigation.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system of piping, tanks or other facilities
serving a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part
into the soil or into any waters of this Commonwealth.
   LOT. A part of a subdivision or a parcel of land used as a building site or
intended to be used for building purposes, whether immediate or future.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, public or private corporation for
profit or not for profit, partnership, firm, trust, estate, department, board,
bureau or agency of the Commonwealth, political subdivision, authority or any
other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing the
penalty or imposing a fine or imprisonment, the term PERSON shall include the
members of an association, partnership or firm and the officers of any local
agency or municipal, public or private corporation for profit or not for
profit.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM. Sewer system and the treatment facility owned,
operated or maintained by a municipality or municipal authority approved by the
Department under a permit issued pursuant to the Clear Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq. as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement,
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, and any noxious
or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic supply or for
recreation, or which constitutes pollution under the Act of June 22, 1937,
(P.L. 1987, No. 394), known as the Clean Streams Law, as amended.
   SMALL FLOW TREATMENT FACILITY. An individual or community sewage system
designed to adequately treat sewage flows not greater than 2,000 gallons per
day for final disposal using a stream discharge or discharge to the surface of
the ground.
   TOWNSHIP. Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 51.36 SEWAGE FACILITIES ACT IMPLEMENTED.
   This subchapter shall be construed as implementing for the township the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, P.L. 1535, No. 537, 35
P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., January 24, 1966, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of
Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 51.37 CONNECTIONS WITH INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   Where public sewer services are not available to a property owner, the
building sewer shall be connected to an individual sewage system complying with
the provisions of this subchapter and the Act.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 51.38 CONFORMITY TO ALL REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a community sewage or an
individual sewage system and building sewer shall comply with all rules,
regulations and ordinances of the township, the County Department of Health,
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and all applicable
statutes of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 51.39 HOLDING TANKS.
   (A)   Holding tank regulations. If the County Department of Health or the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection determines that the use of
a holding tank is necessary to abate a nuisance or public health hazard, or for
use by an institutional, recreational or commercial establishment with a sewage
flow of 400 gallons per day or less; or for temporary installation when an Act
537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq. revision provides for a replacement of the
temporary holding tank by adequate sewage services in accordance with the
schedule approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection,
such holding tanks shall be subject to the following additional regulations.
      (1)   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any use
utilizing a holding tank shall be performed under the direction and control of
the County Department of Health. The disposal site thereof shall be made only
at such site or sites as may be approved by the County Department of Health.
      (2)   All holding tanks shall be permitted by the County Department of
Health and/or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. Copies
of all County Department of Health and/or Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection permits and plans shall be filed with the township by
the permit holder.
      (3)   All property owners or permit holders shall be approved by the
township through an agreement to hold the township harmless in the event of a
claim against the township arising from the operation of the holding tank, and
shall furthermore pay a non-refundable fee to the township for costs of
administration of its sewage maintenance program and for future compliance
monitoring and/or enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The owner of a property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
      (1)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this or any ordinance
of the township and the rules and regulations of the County Department of
Health and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection;
      (2)   Permit only persons authorized by the County Department of Health
and/or Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection to collect,
transport and dispose of the contents therein; and
      (3)   Be responsible for the periodic cleaning or emptying of the holding
tank as well as the costs thereof.
   (C)   Public sewer connections: from time to time in the future, as public
sewage services become available for a property utilizing a holding tank, each
and every owner of such property shall be required to make the necessary
connection to the abutting or adjoining sewer lines. The holding tank must be
disconnected and disposed of in accordance with applicable Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection and County Department of Health rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL SPRAY IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The owner of a property that utilizes an individual spray irrigation
system (IRSIS) shall:
      (1)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this and any
ordinance of the township, the Act and the rules and regulations of the County
Department of Health and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection and all applicable statutes of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township
harmless in the event of a claim against the township arising from the
operation and maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable
fee to the township for its cost of administration, future compliance
monitoring and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Public sewer connections: from time to time in the future, as public
sewage services become available for a property utilizing an IRSIS, each and
every owner of such property shall be required to make the necessary connection
to the abutting or adjoining sewer lines. The IRSIS must be disconnected and
disposed of in accordance with applicable Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection and County Department of Health rules and regulations.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 SMALL FLOW TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   The owner of a property that utilizes an individual small flow
treatment system shall:
      (1)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this and any
ordinance of the township, the Act and the rules and regulations of the Bucks
County Department of Health, and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection, and all applicable statutes of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   Execute an agreement with the township to hold the township
harmless in the event of a claim against the township arising from the
operation and maintenance of the system, and furthermore, pay a nonrefundable
fee to the township for its cost of administration, future compliance
monitoring and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Public sewer connections: from time to time in the future, as public
sewage services become available for a property utilizing a small flow
treatment facility, each and every owner of such property shall be required to
make the necessary connection to the abutting or adjoining sewer lines. The
small flow treatment facility must be disconnected and disposed of in
accordance with applicable Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
and the County Department of Health rules and regulations.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 CONVENTIONAL SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   Permit approval from the County Board of Health and the Department shall be
required for the installation of a community or individual conventional sewage
system and building sewer prior to the construction of any buildings for which
such system or systems will be installed, and prior to the alteration,
replacement, repair or extension of any such existing sewage system.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 SEWAGE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS; FEES.
   (A)   All owners of property or persons who propose utilizing a holding
tank, individual spray irrigation system or small flow treatment facility shall
execute a sewage facilities maintenance agreement with the township. The
agreement shall provide for a non-refundable fee to the township for
administration and future compliance monitoring; and shall furthermore provide
for sufficient financial security to guarantee the proper operation and
maintenance of the proposed facility in accordance with the Act, which may
include cash, a letter of credit or other township approved financial security.
   (B)   All owners of property or persons proposing a holding tank, IRSIS or
small flow treatment facility shall pay a non-refundable fee to be set by
separate resolution of the Board of Supervisors, and shall furthermore pay for
all township costs related to the required sewage maintenance agreement.
   (C)   The following fees are established:
      (1)   Permanent holding tanks and holding tanks approved by the County
Department of Health to correct malfunctioning on-site sewage disposal systems:
 
Application fee $100
Maintenance fee $1,000
 
      (2)   Temporary holding tanks, individual residence spray irrigation
systems and small flow treatment facilities:
 
Application fee        None (application must be submitted with an Act 537
                       revision fee of $400)
Sewage maintenance fee $2,500
 
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997; Res. 97-5, passed 6-10-1997)
§ 51.44 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to make and promulgate any
additional rules and regulations for the review, regulation, approval,
administration and enforcement of sewage systems within the township not in
conflict with this subchapter, and violations of same shall be subject to the
same penalties as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997)
ZION HILL
§ 51.55 GENERALLY.
   Springfield Township, by contract with the Springfield Township Authority
(hereinafter “STA”) and the Milford Trumbauersville Area Sewer Authority
(hereinafter “MTASA”) has agreed to provide for public use a sanitary sewage
system in a portion of the township known as Zion Hill and desires to provide
that, when this sanitary sewer system is constructed, and, in the future, when
any other sanitary sewer system is constructed or an extension of the existing
system is constructed, it shall be the duty of the owners of each property
abutting on the highway, road, street or walk along which such sewer has been
laid to cause the buildings erected on their premises and located within 150
feet of the highway, road, street or walk along which such sewer has been laid
to be connected therewith at their own expense, and further provide for the
cost of construction, for tapping fees as provided from time to time by
resolution, and for payment of annual sewer rentals for the use of the same,
and, upon failure of any such owner to comply with the requirements, to provide
for the Board of Supervisors or the STA to cause such a connection to be made
at the expense of the owner and to prescribe penalties for violations.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Springfield Township Authority.
   COLLECTION SEWER LINE. Sewer lines, pipes, fittings, lift station or pumping
station and any equipment or hardware attached to it.
   COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEMS. Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature from two
or more lots, and the treatment and/or disposal of the sewage or industrial
waste on one or more of the lots or at any site.
   CONSTRUCTION COST. The actual cost incurred by the township or the Authority
to construct the public portion of a sewer project designed to collect,
transport and treat sewage waste, but not including the cost of connection from
an individual lot to the sewer line in the public road or right-of-way designed
to connect an individual lot to the sewer system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environmental Protection of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The normal water-carried household and toilet waste from
residences, business buildings and institutions.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A person or agency appointed to perform inspections and
issue permits in connection with sewage systems, whether individual or
community.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). Wastewater flows into a public sewage
treatment facility as calculated according to published regulations by the
Department of Environmental Protection, or as defined by MTASA or Authority.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site. HOLDING TANKS include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   CHEMICAL TOILET. Toilet using chemicals that discharge into a
holding tank.
      (2)   PRIVY. Holding tank designed to receive sewage where water under
pressure is not available.
      (3)   RETENTION TANK. Holding tank to which sewage is conveyed by a
water-carrying system.
   LOT. A part of a subdivision or a parcel of land used as a building site or
intended to be used for building purposes, whether immediate or future, which
would not be further subdivided. Whenever a LOT is used for a multiple-family
dwelling or for commercial or industrial purposes, the LOT shall be deemed to
have been subdivided into an equivalent number of single-family residential
lots as determined by estimated sewage flows.
   MTASA. The Milford-Trumbauersville Area Sewer Authority.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the township.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association or corporation.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, or imposing a
fine or imprisonment, or both, the term PERSON shall include the members of an
association and the officers of a corporation.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation, or which constitutes pollution under the Act of June 22, 1937 (P.L.
1987, No. 394), known as the Clean Streams Law, as amended.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Springfield, a Second Class Township of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.57 SEWAGE FACILITIES ACT.
   This subchapter shall be construed as implementing the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, P.L. 1535, No. 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq., January 24, 1966, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq. as hereafter amended or re-
enacted by the Commonwealth with special provisions for public sewage services
now or hereafter provided to the township or sections of the township.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.58 CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever any sewer constituting a branch or extension of the
township’s sewer system has been completed and is ready for public use, it
shall be the duty of the owners of each property abutting on the highway, road,
street or walk along which such sewer has been laid to cause the buildings
erected on their premises requiring sewage drainage and located within 150 feet
of the highway, road, street or walk along which such sewer has been laid to be
connected to the sewer at their own expense and subject to the payment of the
annual sewer rental for the use of the same, as well as to pay any tapping fee
or construction charges imposed in connection therewith, and upon the failure
of any such owner to comply with the requirements of this section, the township
or Authority will cause such connections to be made at the expense of such
owner.
   (B)   It shall further be the duty of the owners of such property to
dismantle any existing on-lot sewage system at the time that connections are
made to the public sewer system.
   (C)   Upon the failure of any owner of premises situated along the line of a
township sewer, who has been duly notified to cause any buildings erected on
such premises to be connected with such sewer, to comply with the requirements
of such notice or with the provisions of this section, the township or
Authority shall then cause the necessary connections to be made and, upon
completion of the work for the same, shall render a bill covering the cost of
said work to the owner of such premises. All such bills shall contain the
notice that if said bills are not paid within 30 days after the date thereof,
the same will be collected in the manner provided by law. Upon the expiration
of 30 days after said bills have been rendered, either the Township Solicitor
or a solicitor appointed by the Authority shall thereupon take the necessary
action to effect the collection of such unpaid bills in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.59 SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The township or Authority or MTASA will furnish sewer service in
accordance with currently prevailing rates which may be revised from time to
time.
   (B)   The maintenance, repair or replacement of sewage service lines leading
from the property to the public sewer line in the right-of-way shall be the
responsibility of the user and shall in no way affect the payment of sewer
rents due.
   (C)   Any authorized agent of the township or the Authority or MTASA shall
have the right of access to the premises for purposes of inspection, repair or
any other lawful purpose in connection with the provision of sewage service.
   (D)   In emergencies, the township or Authority or MTASA shall have the
right to temporarily interrupt service to the premises and shall not be held
liable for any claim for damages or inconveniences suffered by the user and/or
owner.
   (E)   If any customer shall fail or refuse, upon receipt of written notice
from the township or Authority or MTASA, to remedy any unsatisfactory condition
within a reasonable length of time established by the township, then the Board
shall have the right to impose a fine pursuant to the Second Class Township
Code and any applicable township ordinance, and, through the Township
Solicitor, to file a lien against the property in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas of the county, in the manner of a
municipal lien.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.60 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The township or Authority or MTASA, as the case may be, are hereby
authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and regulations concerning sewage
as may be deemed necessary from time to time to effect the purposes herein.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.61 CONNECTION NOTICE.
   At such time as a public sewer line shall have been constructed and notice
has been provided to abutting property owners to connect to the public sewer
line, the township or Authority, as the case may be, shall present a statement
to each abutting property owner representing the costs of connection. Each
property owner shall pay a proportionate share of the cost of construction,
such share being determined according to the number of EDUs provided to the
premises versus the total number of EDUs guaranteed to the Authority in a
separate agreement with the MTASA, or, in the case of a future expansion of
sewer service in the township, according to the cost of construction to be
determined for such project. The initial cost of construction for the Zion Hill
sewer system shall include the combined cost for a collection sewer line in
Springfield Township and a collection sewer line in Milford Township as well as
the appurtenant facilities required to convey the sewage to a treatment plant
operated by MTASA. The statement to each owner shall further include the sum of
$4,500 per EDU for the initial sewer project to be constructed in Zion Hill, or
the cost to be fixed from time to time as MTASA increases its fees, or
additional sewage facilities are constructed in the township. Payment of the
charges shall be due within 30 days and an interest charge for any amount not
paid within 30 days shall be due at the rate of 6% per annum or at such
interest rate that shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the
township. The Authority may provide separate terms to individual residents as
the Authority shall see fit, provided all charges shall be uniform for all
users.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.62 SEWER RENTAL.
   In addition to the cost of construction and tapping fee as provided herein,
the Authority or the township, as the case may be, or MTASA as may be provided
by an agreement among MTASA, the Authority and the township, shall bill
customers of the system on a quarterly basis a sewer rental for their
individual use pursuant to a current schedule of rents which shall be adopted
from time to time by the township or the Authority, as the case may be. The
Authority or the township shall have the right to file a municipal lien against
the property of any customer who is delinquent in the payment of sewer rents
and tapping fees.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.63 MATERIAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The connecting line from the building to the public sewer line in the
highway, road, street or walk shall be constructed of suitable materials
approved by MTASA or the Authority Engineer from time to time. The size and
slope of the building sewer shall be further subject to approval by the
Department of Health, the Sewage Enforcement Officer or the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection as shall the elevation, grade and depth
of the building sewer, the joint and connections, trenching, pipe laying and
backfill.
(Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.21 in a summary proceeding before a Magisterial District Judge shall be
fined not more than $1,000 plus costs for each and every offense or, upon
default in payment of the fine and costs, by imprisonment in the county prison
for a period not to exceed 90 days. Each day that such violation is continued
after notice shall constitute a new and separate offence, punishable by like
fine, penalty or imprisonment, and further notices to the offender shall not be
required in order to constitute such continuances as an additional offense or
offenses.
      (2)   In addition to the rights as set forth in this division (B), the
township may take such other rights as are available to it to enforce the
provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.21 including resorting to the courts of equity to seek compliance with the
provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.21.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that any person or property owner fails to
construct, operate or maintain an individual or community sewage system in
accordance with §§
51.35 through
51.44, the Act or the rules and regulations of the County Department of Health
or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, the township may
revoke any certificate of occupancy issued for the use or uses being served by
the individual or community sewage system.
      (2)   Any person or property owner who shall violate any provision of §§
51.35 through
51.44 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 and in default of payment, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed
30 days. Every day that a violation of §§
51.35 through
51.44 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to or in lieu of enforcement by action before a
district justice, the township may enforce §§
51.35 through
51.44 in equity, or it may find the person or property owner in violation of §§
51.35 through
51.44, and in default of any financial security provisions provided for in the
township’s sewage maintenance agreement.
   (D)   Any person alleged to have violated §§
51.55 through
51.63 shall, in addition to any other penalties provided by law, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000, and, in
default of payment, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day
that a violation of §§
51.55 through
51.63 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-10-1997; Ord. 109, passed 1-12-1999; Ord. 167, passed 8-27-
2013)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Connections and Standards for Connections
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Building water service lines and connections
   
52.03   Connection and customer facilities fees
   
52.04   Regulations governing building water service lines and connections to
mains
   
52.05   Access to premises
   
52.06   Prohibitions
   
52.07   Water meters
Water System Construction Standards
   
52.20   Water system construction standards
   
52.21   Amendment by authority of water system construction standards
   
52.22   Verification of authority approval
   
52.23   Notice to authority
   
52.24   Enforcement
Connection
   
52.35   Connection required
   
52.36   Connection fees (new applicants)
   
52.37   Service rates
   
52.38   Billing procedures
   
52.39   Rules and regulations
   
52.40   Easements, rights-of-way and other rights
   
52.41   Water districts
   
52.99   Penalty
CONNECTIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CONNECTIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
phrase “Authority owned” also means “Authority maintained”.
   AUTHORITY. Springtown Water Authority, a Pennsylvania municipal authority
incorporated by the Township of Springfield.
   AUTHORITY SERVICE LINE. Part of the water system extending from a
corporation stop in the street water main to the curb stop valve. The valve is
owned by the Authority.
   BUILDING WATER SERVICE LINE. Extension from the curb stop to any structure.
The service line is owned by, maintained by and the responsibility of the
property owner.
   CURB STOP. Water shut off valve located at or near the curb, or if no curb,
at the edge of the road where the building water service line meets the
Authority service line.
   CORPORATION STOP. The stop valve that is tapped into the street main to
allow shut off of water at the main.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the Township of Springtown upon which
there is erected a structure intended for occupancy or use by human beings or
animals.
   MAIN. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the water system used or
usable for water distribution purposes. Distribution lines are owned by the
Water Authority.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
limited liability company, corporation, municipality, municipal authority or
other groups or entity.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Springfield.
   WATER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for production,
treatment, monitoring, transmission, storage and distribution of water in the
township owned by the Authority for maintenance, operation and use.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - - 2008; Ord. 147, passed
2-12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - - 2011)
§ 52.02 BUILDING WATER SERVICE LINES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit. No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into,
use, alter or disturb, in any manner, any main or any part of the water system
without first obtaining a permit in writing from the Authority and the township
and pay the requisite fees.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit required above shall be made by
the owner of the improved property served or to be served with notice as
provided herein, or by the duly authorized agent or agent of such owner.
   (C)   Connection. No person shall make or shall cause to be made a
connection of any improved property to a water main until such person fulfills
each of the following conditions:
      (1)   Notify the Authority and the township of the desire and intention
to connect such improved property to a water main;
      (2)   Apply for and obtain a permit as required above;
      (3)   Give the township and the Authority at least 48 hours’ notice
before such connection will be made in order that the Authority and/or the
township, or its representative, can inspect the work and the connection for
compliance and conduct necessary testing, if desired;
      (4)   If applicable, furnish satisfactory evidence to the Authority that
any connection or customer facility fees, which may be charged and imposed by
the Authority against the owner of such improved property who connects such
improved property to a main, has been paid; and
      (5)   Complies with the Authority’s specifications, rules and
regulations.
   (D)   Single connection. Except as otherwise provided in this section, each
improved property shall be connected separately and independently with a main
through a building water service line. Grouping of more than one improved
properties on one building water service line shall not be permitted, except
under special circumstances and for good cause shown, but then only after
special permission of the Authority, in writing, shall have been secured and
only subject to such further rules, regulations and conditions as may be
prescribed by the Authority. Exceptions granted are only for the property in
question.
   (E)   Costs and expenses. All costs and expenses of construction of a
building water service line to a main shall be borne by the owner of the
improved property to be connected. Such owner shall indemnify and shall save
harmless the Authority and/or the township from all loss or damage that may be
occasioned directly or indirectly, as a result of construction of a building
water service line or of connection of a building water service line to a main.
   (F)   Main. A building water service line shall be connected to a main at
the place designated by the Authority and where, if applicable, the Authority
service line is provided. A smooth neat joint shall be made and the connection
of a building water service line to the Authority service line shall be made
secure and watertight.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CONNECTION AND CUSTOMER FACILITIES FEES.
   Fees established by separate fee resolution, as may be adopted from time to
time by the Board of the Authority, shall be paid to the Authority prior to
connection to a service line.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011)
§ 52.04 REGULATIONS GOVERNING BUILDING WATER SERVICE LINES AND CONNECTIONS TO
MAINS.
   (A)   Inspection. 
      (1)   No building water service line shall be covered until it has been
inspected and approved by the Authority or the Authority’s designee. If any
part of a building water service line is covered before so being inspected and
approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection, at the cost and expense of the
owner of the improved property to be connected to a main.
      (2)   The Authority shall have 48-hours notice to inspect the water
service line connection. The water line connection shall not be covered until
the property owner has received written authorization and certification that
the connection meets requirements in full.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every building water service line of any improved
property shall be maintained in a sanitary and safe operating condition, free
of leaks, by the owner of such improved property. The owner shall be
responsible to install and maintain, at the owner’s own expense, the building
water service line serving the improved property, and to repair and replace
same as directed by the Authority.
   (C)   Safety. Every excavation for a building water service line shall be
guarded adequately with barricades and lights to protect all persons from
damage and injury. Any street, sidewalk or other public property disturbed in
the course of installation of a building water service line shall be restored,
at the cost and expense of the owner of the improved property being connected,
in a manner satisfactory to the township and/or the Authority.
   (D)   Curb stop. No person shall cover or obstruct a curb stop with any
material, plants or trees. The owner of an improved property shall be
responsible to keep the curb stop free from obstructions. If the property
owner’s curb stop is obstructed, the Authority shall notify the property owner
of the remediation action required. The property owner shall have 60 days to
advise the Water Authority of the action to be taken and 90 days to complete
the action once given approval by the Water Authority for the plan of action.
   (E)   Repair of building water service line. It is permissible to repair a
leaking building water service line with the same material as exists, except if
a lead service line is discovered. In the event of a lead service line, the
entire service line must be replaced with current allowed service line
materials. However, if it is the intent to replace only a portion of the
building water service line and replace the remainder at a later date, the
replacement provisions set forth below must be followed.
   (F)   Replacement of building water service line. If the existing building
water service line needs to be replaced, it must be replaced with minimum size
three-fourths inside diameter Type K soft copper tubing ASTM # B 88 with
approved compression fitting according to township ordinances or the latest
requirements of the township building requirements or codes. In the event of an
emergency and the property is not available within a practical time, the
Authority will take action to remediate and appropriately pass the cost to the
property owner.
   (G)   Water service termination. Water service may be shut off to an
improved property at any time it becomes necessary, whether for repairs to that
portion of the Authority service line maintained by the Authority or failure of
an owner to repair a leaking building water service line after notification is
provided by the Authority to the owner of an improved property to make repairs
to the building water service line due to leaks. In such situations, the
Authority shall designate the time period for the owner to repair the leak
based upon circumstances, the most important of which shall be the size of the
leak and its impact on the water system. The Authority representative in the
field at the time of the leak detection shall have the discretion and power to
determine the amount of time, if any, to provide the owner to repair the leak
before the water service is shut off.
   (H)   Authority. The township reserves the right to adopt, from time to
time, additional rules and regulations it shall deem necessary and proper
relating to connections with a main and with the water system, which additional
rules and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be
construed as part of this subchapter.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   As long as water is piped to any building, the Authority and the township
shall at all reasonable times have free access to the meters (including, but
not limited to access to, the basement of the improved property) or service
pipes to inspect, attest, read, repair, remove or replace the same whether or
not the occupant of the building is a water user, and such access shall not be
impeded by coal, ashes or rubbish, nor in any other manner. Failure to provide
such free access shall be cause for termination of service until suitable
access is provided. A fee shall also be imposed (see latest fee resolution).
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011)
§ 52.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized usage. Unauthorized usage of Authority water through
unauthorized connections or opening of fire hydrants is not permitted and is
subject to fines and penalties and/or criminal prosecution as established by
this subchapter and the latest fee resolution.
   (B)   Inspected connections. Once the Authority or the Authority’s designee
has inspected and approved a connection of an improved property to the
Authority’s main or the Authority’s service line, no modification of the
connection can occur unless the Authority has been notified and has inspected
and approved the modification.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Installation and ownership.
      (1)   For each improved property, a water meter shall be installed inside
the property owner’s building. Each new water meter shall be furnished and
installed by the Authority at the expense of the owner.
      (2)   The water meter and remote transmitter shall remain the property of
the Authority. The Authority shall have the right to remove any such water
meter for testing or for maintenance and may furnish in its place another meter
substantially equal thereto as the need for such replacement may occur, without
incurring liability therefor to the owner. In such cases, the property owner
must provide access to the Authority or its representative.
      (3)   The Authority shall inspect, test, adjust, maintain and/or replace
such meters at its own expense, except that any meter damaged in service
through the negligent act or omission of the property owner or of the owner’s
tenant or agent shall be replaced by the Authority at the expense of the
property owner.
      (4)   Meter damage resulting from freezing or backflow of hot water shall
be considered the result of negligence on the part of the owner.
   (B)   Meter accuracy.
      (1)   The accuracy of the water meters on the Authority’s water system
shall be determined in accordance with the meter manufacturer’s specifications.
Upon request of any user, the Authority will inspect the meter in the user’s
premises. If necessary, the Authority will have the meter tested and while
testing, a replacement meter will be installed. Meter test results will be
provided to the property owner and kept for record purposes for one year by the
Authority.
      (2)   If the said meter is found to register a greater quantity of water
than passes through it, to a degree exceeding the tolerance of accuracy
prescribed by the meter manufacturer’s specifications, no charge shall be made
for such test, and the bills rendered on the basis of the registration of said
meter for a period of not more than three months preceding the removal thereof
may be adjusted on an equitable basis.
      (3)   If the said meter is found to have been tampered with, the property
owner shall be responsible for all costs to replace said meter.
      (4)   Upon prior request, the water user may review the water test
results during normal working hours.
      (5)   If the meter is found to be accurate, the property owner or user
shall be responsible for all costs associated with the meter test including the
removal and replacement of the meter.
(Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Res. 08-03, passed - -2008; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Res. 11-162, passed - -2011)
WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 52.20 WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All materials and methods of construction, replacement, repair of and
connection to the Springtown Water Authority public water system including, but
not limited to, laterals, curb stops and private lines, shall follow and be in
accordance with the Water System Construction Standards adopted by the
Springtown Water Authority on April 9, 2007 by Res. 07-06, as attached to this
chapter and as codified in §§
52.01 through
52.07, and as may be amended from time to time by the Authority.
(Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 52.21 AMENDMENT BY AUTHORITY OF WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The Authority shall have the right to adopt, from time to time, additional
rules, regulations and amendments of the Water System Construction Standards it
shall deem necessary and proper relating to connections with a main and with
the water system, which additional rules, regulations and amendments of the
Water System Construction Standards, to the extent appropriate, shall be and
shall be construed as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 52.22 VERIFICATION OF AUTHORITY APPROVAL.
   Before issuance of a building or plumbing permit to an applicant of a
property located with the Authority’s service district, the applicant shall
supply the township with verification from the Authority that the Authority has
approved the materials, method and plan for the connection or reconnection to
its water system and paid all applicable fees and expenses.
(Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 52.23 NOTICE TO AUTHORITY.
   Upon application and issuance of building or plumbing permit involving a
property within the Authority’s service district, the township shall
immediately provide written notice to the Authority of the applicant’s name,
the contact information for the applicant, the address of the property and
provide copies of the application and permit. The township is to give notice to
the Authority when an application is submitted.
(Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011; Res. 15-02, passed - -2015)
§ 52.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Solicitor for the township is authorized to prosecute violations of this
subchapter or the township may delegate the authority to prosecute to the
attorney for the Authority.
(Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011)
CONNECTION
§ 52.35 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All improved properties in the water district shall be required to
make connection thereto, unless exempt under §
52.41. The township shall give notice to an adjoining property owner who shall,
within 90 days after receipt of such notice, make such connection.
      (2)   In the event that such connection is not made, the Authority and
its agents or employees shall make such connection, send an itemized bill to
the property owner and make such arrangements with the property owner for
payment of such construction. In the event of a default of payment arrangement
or any payment, the Authority Solicitor may proceed with the entry of a lien or
any other legal action to enforce payment of the cost of installation.
   (B)   Property ownership changes. Payment of outstanding bills or pro rata
closing bills, and any outstanding fees are to be paid prior to or at the
closing. If not, a lien for the outstanding amount owed to the Authority shall
attach to the property.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.36 CONNECTION FEES (NEW APPLICANTS).
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a connection fee for each connection to be
made to the facilities at the curb or property line, which fee shall be payable
upon application for permit to make any new connection and which fee shall
include the cost of the meter and remote reading head and the cost of making
the tap into the Authority’s main as set forth below.
   (B)   The fees shall be established by the Authority by resolution which may
be amended from time to time (see the latest fee resolution). The applicable
fees include:
      (1)   Residential designations. As further defined under the rules and
regulations of the Authority, fees per equivalent dwelling unit, trailer,
apartment, motel, hotel unit or small commercial designations apply;
      (2)   Commercial meter fees are based upon meter size where one meter
serves a complex.
      (3)   In addition to the fee noted above, the actual cost to open a
trench to the service main, tap the main, connect a service line from the main
to just inside the curb or property line, install a curb stop, valve and box,
backfill the trench and restore the property and road to its former condition
will also be charged to the new applicant requiring this installation. At the
time of application for service, a minimum deposit of (see latest fee
resolution) established by resolution of the Authority will be required of the
applicant to cover the actual costs of the installation. Actual charges less
than the deposit will be refunded. Charges greater than the deposit will be
billed to the property owner.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.37 SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   Determination of EDUs (equivalent dwelling units) for billing and rate
setting.
      (1)   All metered users not yet on the metered billing system will be
evaluated by the Authority and/or its engineer to determine the equivalent
dwelling units of the customer.
      (2)   All single-family living units will automatically be one EDU.
      (3)   Multi-family units will be one EDU for each separated occupancy
unit.
   (B)   Metered rates.
      (1)   Residential and commercial users. For each owner property served,
there is a quarterly rent to be fixed by resolution of the Authority. The
service rate shall be determined by the Authority and fixed by resolution (see
the latest fee resolution).
      (2)   Water for building purposes.  Water for building purposes and
construction may be furnished in accordance with the rates, rules and
regulations of the Authority established by resolution (see the latest fee
resolution).
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979; Res. 15-02, passed - -2015)
§ 52.38 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The minimum water rents imposed shall be payable quarterly within 30
days of issuance of the invoice.
   (B)   Bills for water rent shall be mailed to the address specified in the
application for permit to make the connection unless and until a different
address is specified to the Authority by the owner or user of the property.
Failure to receive a bill as a result of incorrect address or otherwise shall
not excuse non-payment of rent or extend the time for payment. The property
owner is responsible for keeping the address for the property current.
   (C)   Bills can be pro-rated in the case of property ownership changes.
   (D)   Failure to pay within the required time will result in penalties,
water shutoff and eventually a lien on the property.
   (E)   Property owners are required give to the Authority emergency contact
information as well as the name, address and emergency contact information of
all tenants occupying any property served by the Authority.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.39 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Authority is hereby granted the right to enact all rules and regulations
necessary regarding the operation, payment and collection of water rents and
for the use of facilities of the Authority. The Authority in all respects shall
be obligated to comply with the Municipal Authority’s Act of 1945.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.40 EASEMENTS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND OTHER RIGHTS.
   The Township Supervisors do hereby grant to the Authority all easements,
rights-of-way and other rights on, under and over the public streets and alleys
of the township necessary or desirable to facilitate the maintenance and
construction of the water system subject to all other applicable township
ordinances.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.41 WATER DISTRICTS.
   The township shall create water districts to be served by the Authority. The
first being the area encompassed by the service area of the Springtown Water
Authority. Mandatory connection shall not be required of improved properties
between the initial service area and any water district created after the
effective date of this chapter. Owners of improved properties exempt under this
section may make connection upon authorization granted under the procedures of
this subchapter and payment of all necessary costs.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions
of this chapter or any Authority resolution, shall be subject to pay a penalty
of not less than $100 nor more than (see the latest fee resolution) for each
consecutive day the violation continues, and if the violation continues in
excess of 30 days, the penalty shall be set at (see the latest fee resolution)
per day commencing on the thirty-first day until the violation has been
corrected. Penalties shall be assessed on the bills sent by the Authority to
the customer and shall be payable within 30 days of invoice. The penalties set
forth herein may be changed from time to time by fee resolution adopted by the
Authority’s Board.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty paid to the Authority, should any person
be found guilty of violating §§
52.01 through
52.07 in a summary proceeding before a District Justice, that person shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of up to (see the latest fee resolution) for each
offense, or undergo imprisonment for up to 30 days, plus all court costs,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred as a result of the prosecution.
Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   If any quarterly installment of water rent is not paid within 30 days
after the date of the bill, a
penalty shall be added thereto; and if the installment plus penalty is not paid
within 60 days after the date of the bill, the aggregate amount thereof shall
bear interest from the penalty date until paid as established by Authority
resolution (see the latest fee resolution ). Any unpaid water rent (together
with penalties and interest thereon at the extent permitted by law) shall be a
lien on the property and the Authority shall use all legal means to secure
payment, including collection agencies, water shut off, and property liens if
needed.
(Ord. 42, passed 10-29-1979; Res. 07-06, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 147, passed 2-
12-2008; Ord. 2011-162, passed 11-22-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   MOTOR VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: MOTOR VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Enactment
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Findings of the Board of Supervisors
   
70.05   Vehicle weight limits established
   
70.06   Permits and security
   
70.07   Erection of signs
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as Motor Vehicle Weight Limitation Ordinance of
2000.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.02 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred by the Vehicle
Code, Act of 1976, June 17, P.L. 1962, No. 81, § 1, effective July 1, 1977 (75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), as amended and is intended to include and be subject
to all provisions of § 4902 of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902, and all
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation regulations promulgated or to be
promulgated under the Vehicle Code, by way of illustration and not limitation
under §§ 4902(f) and 6103 (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4902(f) and 6103).
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A Fire Department vehicle, police vehicle, ambulance,
blood delivery vehicle, Armed Forces emergency vehicle, one private vehicle of
a Fire or Police Chief or Assistant  Chief, or ambulance corps commander or
assistant commander, or of a river rescue commander used for answering
emergency calls, or other vehicle designated by the State Police under § 6101
of the Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6106, relating to designation of emergency
vehicles by Pennsylvania State Police).
   LOCAL TRAFFIC. Emergency vehicles and school buses, defined hereinafter,
vehicles and combinations or governmental entities and utilities where their
contractors are engaged in construction or maintenance on a posted highway or
in a location which can be reached only via a posted highway, and vehicles and
combinations going to or coming from a residence or farm located on a posted
highway, or which can be reached only via a posted highway.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or combination as defined and/or governed by the
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
   SCHOOL BUS. A motor vehicle designated for carrying more than ten
passengers, exclusive of the driver, and used for the transportation of school
children.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.04 FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   Based upon engineering studies conducted by the Township Engineer, and in
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Second Class Township Code, the
Board of Supervisors has determined that the following roads may be damaged or
destroyed unless the permissible weight of motor vehicles is restricted to a
five-ton weight limit:
 
Route Numbers Street Name        Between
T-423         Springfield Street 1,500± feet east of Route 309 and Salem Road
T-368         Salem Road         Springfield Street and Tumblebrook Road
T-447         Hilltop Road       300± feet west of Route 309 and Upper Saucon
                                 Township
 
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
70.04 and by authority of § 4902 of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902, and
regulations promulgated thereunder, no motor vehicle or combination shall be
operated upon any of the roads listed in §
70.04 with gross weight in excess of the weight limits listed for said road in
§
70.04.
   (B)   Local traffic as defined §
70.03 shall be exempted from the restrictions imposed under division (A) of
this section. However, if the Board of Supervisors determines that any local
traffic is likely to damage the road, the Board of Supervisors will so notify
the registrants of the motor vehicle or combination and will also notify all
law enforcement agencies with jurisdiction. After two business days following
delivery of the notice, or after five days following mailing of the notice,
such local traffic vehicles shall not exceed the weight limits except in
accordance with §
70.06.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PERMITS AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors may issue permits for the movement of motor
vehicles or combinations with weights in excess of the restrictions imposed
under §
70.04, and may require such undertaking or security as they deem necessary to
cover the costs of anticipated or probable repairs and restoration necessitated
by the permitted movement of vehicles.
   (B)   All actions taken under the authority of this section shall be taken
in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, Department of Transportation, as found in 61 Pa.Code Chapter 189,
as amended, a copy of which is attached to this Ordinance 115 as Appendix “A”
and incorporated herein. All references in 61 Pa.Code Chapter 189 to the
Department shall refer to Springfield Township.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.07 ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   The township shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained restriction
of signs designating the restrictions at the end of the portion of road
restricted as provided in this chapter. In the case of a restriction on a road
which has not begun or ended at an intersection with an unrestricted highway,
the township shall also place an advance information sign at the intersection
nearest each end of the restricted portion of the road which would allow
drivers to avoid the restricted portion of road.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle or combination upon a road or bridge in
violation of a prohibition or restriction imposed under §
70.04 is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
to pay a fine of $75 except that any person convicted of operating a vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of a posted weight shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of $150, plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part
thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable weight.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2000)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES
Section
   
71.01   Intent
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Policy and objectives
   
71.04   Procedure
   
71.05   Criteria for installation of speed humps
   
71.06   Design and installation standards for speed humps
   
71.07   Approval and installation
   
71.08   Removal of speed humps
§ 71.01 INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish effective, fair and consistent
policies and procedures for implementing traffic calming measures on township-
owned roadways. Such systems are specifically designed to reduce the speed, but
not necessarily the volume, of motor vehicle traffic in residential areas.
Traffic calming measures shall also consist of enforcement and education
activities by the Police Department.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCESSIVE CUT-THROUGH TRAFFIC. An excessive cut-through traffic problem
exists when more than 30% of the traffic in any given hour during the day uses
the street as a through street. Cut-through traffic is traffic not originating
in or destined to the immediate neighborhood.
   EXCESSIVE TRAFFIC VOLUME. A disproportionately high volume of traffic that
promotes excessive speed, unsafe driving behavior and diminished livability on
a neighborhood street.
   SPEED HUMP. A traffic calming measure installed in accordance with design
criteria for speed humps contained in the Traffic Calming Handbook.
   SPEEDING. A speeding problem exists when the eighty-fifth percentile speed
on the affected street(s) is in excess of ten mph over the posted speed limit
for at least a period of 24 hours or another appropriate time determined by the
township in accordance with the Traffic Calming Handbook.
   TRAFFIC CALMING HANDBOOK. Pennsylvania’s Traffic Calming Handbook,
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Publication No. 383, as the same may
be from time to time revised.
   TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES. Strategic measures to improve the safety and
livability of neighborhood streets by reducing vehicle speed, excessive traffic
volume and cut-through traffic on neighborhood streets, and by addressing other
safety-related neighborhood traffic concerns.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.03 POLICY AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the township to establish an objective set of
criteria for applying traffic calming measures to problem streets, using a
prioritization process to authorize and schedule traffic calming projects, and
to maintain a system of neighborhood involvement and consensus as a
prerequisite for any traffic calming measures taken. To that end, the township
hereby adopts the following objectives:
      (1)   To maintain and/or improve neighborhood livability by mitigating
the impact of vehicular traffic on residential neighborhoods;
      (2)   To promote safe and attractive streets that maintain and/or improve
the quality of life in neighborhoods;
      (3)   To promote conditions that provide safe neighborhoods for
motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians and residents of the neighborhood while
maintaining access to the neighborhood;
      (4)   To encourage citizen involvement in all phases of neighborhood
traffic calming activities; and
      (5)   To make efficient use of township resources by prioritizing traffic
calming requests.
   (B)   The procedures and criteria stated herein apply specifically to speed
humps where the Board of Supervisors, by resolution, authorizes the installment
of speed humps on specified township-owned roads in the township.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors, by resolution, may adopt and approve
installation of other traffic control measures and direct their installation on
one or more township roads. Speed humps and such other traffic calming measures
approved by the Board of Supervisors shall be installed in accordance with the
guidelines contained in the Traffic Calming Manual.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors may utilize the procedure provided herein to
determine whether and where to establish other traffic calming measures and may
utilize such other approval mechanisms provided in the Traffic Calming Manual.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.04 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any individual citizen, group of citizens, civic association,
business, developer or township official or employee may initiate the process
of evaluation of a speed hump or other traffic calming request. Requests shall
be submitted in writing, along with a petition, as described below, to the
Township Manager for consideration at the next available meeting of the Board
of Supervisors.
   (B)   Such requests shall be submitted a minimum of 30 days before the Board
of Supervisors meeting at which they will be discussed.
      (1)   All adult residents of the street(s), or portion of a street, where
the speed humps or other traffic calming measures are proposed to be installed
as well as the residents of any cul-de-sac which intersects with the street (or
portion of same) must be contacted by notice sent by regular mail by the
applicant(s) and advised that speed humps or other traffic calming measures are
being considered for their street(s).
      (2)   A signed petition must be submitted reflecting the support of 70%
of the households on the street or portion of the street where the speed hump
or other traffic calming measure is proposed and on culs-de-sac which intersect
the street or portion of the street involved.
      (3)   Only one adult signature per household, apartment or business will
be considered.
      (4)   The Board of Supervisors may rank the need and/or priority for
installation of speed humps in accordance with the criteria stated below and in
the Traffic Calming Manual.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.05 CRITERIA FOR INSTALLATION OF SPEED HUMPS.
   The following criteria shall be evaluated when considering the need for
speed humps on multiple streets.
   (A)   In order for speed humps to be installed, speeding, excessive traffic
volume or excessive cut through traffic will be evaluated based upon a traffic
study conducted in accordance with the guidelines contained in the Traffic
Calming Manual.
   (B)   Speed humps will not be installed on state roadways.
   (C)   The legally posted speed limit on the street shall not exceed 25 mph.
   (D)   The minimum length of the street shall be at least 1,000 feet. Speed
humps may be installed on a 1,000 feet or more portion of a street.
   (E)   The average daily traffic (ADT) shall not be less than 100 vehicles
per day, which shall be determined by an automated traffic count of not less
than three days duration, conducted by the township. Manual counts may be used
at the township’s discretion.
   (F)   The average vehicle speed (based upon the eighty-fifth percentile of
the speeds recorded during the traffic count) shall not be less than ten in
miles per hour over the legally posted speed limit, which shall be determined
by an automated speed study of not less than three days duration.
   (G)   The township may analyze the number of accidents on the affected
roadway, over the most recent three-year period, to ascertain the extent to
which excessive or unsafe speeds were a contributing factor.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.06 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION STANDARDS FOR SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   The design and installation of speed humps shall comply with the
guidelines contained in the Traffic Calming Manual.
   (B)   The distance between speed humps shall not be less than 300 feet. The
number of speed humps installed on any street shall comply with the guidelines
contained in the Traffic Calming Manual.
   (C)   Speed humps shall not be installed on hills or curves that could
affect the safe control of vehicles as determined by the Township Engineer.
   (D)   Speed humps shall traverse the entire roadway, allowing one foot on
each side for the flow of stormwater.
   (E)   Signs indicating “Speed Hump” shall be erected in each location of the
speed hump and at a sufficient distance before the hump to warn approaching
motorists. For increased visibility, reflective stripes shall be painted on the
speed humps and in areas on either side of the hump as recommended in the
Traffic Calming Manual. Signing and street markings shall be installed in
accordance with the guidelines contained in the Traffic Calming Manual.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.07 APPROVAL AND INSTALLATION.
   All decisions regarding whether or not to install speed humps shall be made
by the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the criteria contained herein.
To the extent that there are multiple projects competing for available funds,
such projects will be ranked by the Board of Supervisors and implemented as
funds permit in the discretion of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 71.08 REMOVAL OF SPEED HUMPS.
   The Board of Supervisors may determine to remove speed humps for any of the
following reasons.
   (A)   Emergency response is significantly affected.
   (B)   The identified traffic problem necessitating the speed hump has
abated.
   (C)   A petition is submitted reflecting the support of 70% of the
households on the street(s) where the traffic calming measure(s) are installed
asking that the traffic calming measures be removed.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Right turn only
   
IV.   Truck traffic
   
V.   Engine brake retarders
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Specific speed limits.
      (1)   Words and phrases, when used in this division (A), except for
sections or articles to which different or additional definitions apply, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code (Act 151 of 1998, 75
Pa.C.S.A.§ 102), as amended.
      (2)   Maximum speed limits are established on certain portions of
specified roads as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle, on any part of a road where a maximum speed limit applies, at a higher
speed than the maximum prescribed for that part of the road:
Street/Road Maximum Speed Limit Restricted Area Ord. Date Passed
Street/Road        Maximum Speed Restricted Area    Ord.     Date Passed
                   Limit
Buckwampum Road    25 mph        Within the         2023-206 11-28-2023
                                 township
                                 Between Knecht
Bursonville Road   35 mph        Bridge Road and    90       7-9-1991
                                 Route 412
                                 In Springtown
Center Street      25 mph        between Church     45       2-22-1983
                                 Street and Main
                                 Street (SR 412)
Cherry Road        30 mph        Within the         150      9-23-2008
                                 township
                                 In Springtown
Church Street      25 mph        between Lower      45       2-22-1983
                                 Saucon Road and
                                 Center Street
Cut Off Road       35 mph        Within the         2024-209 10-22-2024
                                 township
                                 From the township
Nemeth Road        35 mph        line southward to  20       6-10-1975
                                 Richlandtown Pike
                                 (L.R. 09080)
Passer Road (T-    40 mph        Within the         31;      10-26-1976; 10-22-
485)                             township           2024-209 2024
                                 Between Route 212
Peppermint Road    25 mph        and Richlandtown   44       8-24-1982
                                 Pike (L.R. 09080)
                                 Between
Peppermint Road    35 mph        Richlandtown Road  2023-207 11-28-2024
                                 and Parkland Road
                                 Between
Pleasant View Road 35 mph        Richlandtown Pike  58       1-27-1987
                                 and State Route
                                 212
                                 Both directions,
                                 between the
                                 intersection with
Quarry Road                      Crowthers Road
(Township Road     25 mph        (Township Road     112      8-10-1999
#441)                            #370) and a points
                                 5/8 (0.625) of a
                                 mile toward State
                                 Road (S.R. 4060)
Reed Lane (T-420)  25 mph                          130      8-9-2005
                                 Between Peppermint
Rowland Lane       25 mph        Road and the       44       8-24-1982
                                 western most point
                                 on Rowland Lane
Salem Road         35 mph        All                106      11-12-1996
Township Road      45 mph        Kunsman Road and   101      - -
                                 Springhouse Road
Township Road      35 mph        State Route 212    101      - -
                                 and Kunsman Road
                                 Springhouse Road
Township Road      35 mph        and Bursonville    101      - -
                                 Road
 
      (3)   The proper authorities of the township are hereby directed to erect
official signs restricting the speed as aforesaid in conformity with the
provisions of the Vehicle Code.
      (4)   The speed limitations set forth in this division (A) shall not
apply to vehicles, when operated with due regard for safety, under the
direction of the police in the chase or apprehension of violators of the law,
or of person charged with or suspected of any such violation, nor to vehicles
responding to a fire alarm, nor to ambulances when traveling in emergencies.
The exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from
the consequences of reckless disregard of the safety of others.
      (5)   Enforcement of this division (A) shall be pursuant to the
Pennsylvania Vehicle Code and all fines levied for violations thereunder shall
be payable to the township.
   (B)   Maximum speed limit of 25 mph on certain highways.
      (1)   Existing roadways.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) below, it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to drive or operate any truck, passenger
car, motorcycle or other automobile or motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 25
mph over or upon a non-numbered traffic route functionally classified as a
local highway which are within residential districts in the township as set
forth in subsection (4) below, if said local highway is properly posted with
speed limit signage.
         (b)   Said speed limit shall become effective only upon the posting of
a 25 mph speed limit signage as required by the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
      (2)   Future roadways.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) below and
provided that 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3362(a)(1.2) and 6109(e) of the Pennsylvania
Vehicle Code are not amended regarding the establishment of the maximum speed
limit on non-numbered traffic route functionally classified as a local highway
located within residential districts, it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to drive or operate any truck, passenger car, motorcycle, or other
automobile or motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 25 mph over or upon all
future non-numbered traffic route functionally classified as a local highway
located within residential districts within the township.
         (b)   Upon the enactment of a resolution by the Board of Supervisors
naming a non- numbered traffic route functionally classified as a local highway
within a residential district and the posting of a 25 mph speed limit signage
as required by the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, the maximum speed limit of 25 mph
shall be established for that roadway.
      (3)   Exemptions to the maximum speed limit. The speed limitations set
forth in this division (B) shall not apply to vehicles, when operated with due
regard for safety, under the direction of the police in the chase or
apprehension of violators of the law, or of persons charged with or suspected
of any such violation, nor to fire alarm, nor to ambulances when traveling in
emergencies. The exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequences of reckless disregard of the safety of others.
      (4)   Residence District streets.
Township Route Number Street Name
Township Route Number Street Name
354            Allison Road
368            Salem Road
370            Crowthers Road
391            Deer Trail Road
392            Gross Road
393            Tumblebrook Road
401            Blue Church Road
406            Bridge Street
407            Chestnut Road
409            Clay Avenue
411            Church Street
412            Cooks Creek Road
413            Ebert Road
415            Grouse Lane
419            Haupts Bridge Road
420            Drifting Drive
424            Maple Road
426            Berger Road
431            Mink Road
432            Nemeth Road
436            Passer Road
437            Pleasant Hollow Road
438            Povenski Road
439            Quarry Road
440            Rocky Valley Road
441            Reed Lane
443            Side Line Road
444            Trolley Bridge Road
445            Walnut Street
447            Hilltop Road
448            Wrecsis Road
471            Hickon Road
477            Winding Road
483            School Road
484            Keller Road
487            Parkland Road
489            Peppermint Road
442            Springtown Hill Road
491            Highpoint Road
497            Dogwood Road
498            Mountain View Avenue
499            Greenwood Drive
500            Lakeview Drive
501            Haycock Run Road
503            Center Street
504            Chapel Street
508            Allan Drive
509            Highland Road
510            Rowland Lane
511            Spring Hill Drive
512            Trolley Bridge Circle
513            Oak Lane
514            Cut-Off Road
515            Sonny Lane
517            Hunter Road
519            High Meadow Road
520            Shirley Lane
521            Jakes Place Road
522            Woodbyne Road
523            Hawk Road
 
      (5)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this division (B) shall be pursuant to
the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code and all fines levied for violations thereunder
shall be payable to the township.
(Ord. 159, passed 9-14-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Specific powers of local authorities, see 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersection established at Knechts Bridge Road and Bursonville
Road.
      (1)   The following intersection is established as a stop intersection
and official stop signs shall be erected (or ratified if previously erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching on the first named street in the
direction or directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection on the first named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by 75
Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b) of the Vehicle Code and shall not proceed into or across
the second named or intersecting through street until he or she has followed
all applicable requirements of that section of the law.
 
Stop Street         Intersection or   Direction of Travel Ord.     Date Passed
                    Through Street
Knechts Bridge Road Bursonville Road/ South bound         88       12-11-1990
                    Township Road
Peppermint Road     Deer Trail Road   All                 2023-207 11-28-2023
Peppermint Road     Parkland Road     All                 2023-207 11-28-2023
 
      (2)   Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Stop sign eliminated west bound on Bursonville Road. Bursonville Road
is hereby established as a through street at the intersection of Bursonville
Road, Township Road and Knechts Bridge Road, and the stop sign on Bursonville
Road at the intersection of Township Road shall be removed.
(Ord. 88, passed 12-11-1990)
SCHEDULE III. RIGHT TURN ONLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling upon
Township Road to make, without stopping, other than a right hand turn at
Bursonville Road. All traffic on Township Road not making a right hand turn at
Bursonville Road shall stop before proceeding through the intersection at
Bursonville Road.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 88, passed 12-11-1990)
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   Definitions. Words and phrases, when used in this division (A),
except for sections or articles to which different or additional definitions
apply, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code (the Act of
June 17, 1976, P.L. 162 No. 81), as amended.
         Truck–A vehicle or combination as defined and/or governed by the
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended and shall include motor
vehicle carrier vehicles, commercial vehicles, truck tractors, trailers or
combinations, but does not include pick-up trucks or emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Truck traffic restricted on certain highways.
         (a)   No person shall operate a truck as defined in this division (A)
on any of the following streets or parts thereof:
 
Street Name          Maximum Size or GVWR Between            Ord. Date Passed
                     Limit
Bursonville Road     All (No trucks)      Route 412 and      191  1-8-2019
                                          Township Road
Hickory Lane         All (No trucks)      Slifer Valley Road 53   9-9-1986
                                          and Route 212
Lower Saucon Road    All (No trucks)      Route 212 and      191  1-8-2019
                                          municipal boundary
                                          Lower Saucon Road
Springtown Hill Road All (No trucks)      and municipal      191  1-8-2019
                                          boundary
Township Road        All (No trucks)      Route 212 and      191  1-8-2019
                                          Bursonville Road
 
         (b)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit any person from
driving an emergency vehicle on any of those highways or parts of highways, or
from driving on any of those highways or parts of highways a truck or other
commercial vehicle making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located
along that highway or part of highway.
      (3)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this division (A)
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
   (B)   Truck traffic on Pleasant Hollow Road.
      (1)   Definitions and interpretations. Words and phrases contained within
this division (B), except where otherwise specifically provided, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101
et seq.
      (2)   Regulation of length of vehicles utilizing Pleasant Hollow Road. It
shall be unlawful for any truck traffic utilized for hauling, transporting,
delivering or carrying of commercial goods which exceed 30 feet in length to
utilize any portion of Pleasant Hollow Road within the township.
      (3)   Temporary and emergency suspensions. The Township Supervisors or
the Chief of Police shall have the power to temporarily suspend this division
(B) in the time of an emergency.
      (4)   Signage. The township shall, upon the passage of this division (B)
and prior to enforcement, ensure that proper signage is installed to provide
proper notification to all vehicular traffic of this size/length limitation on
Pleasant Hollow Road.
      (5)   Authority of police. Township police officers and the state police
shall have authority to enforce this division (B).
      (6)   Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this division
(B) shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$300 together with any court costs associated with the case.
   (C)   Truck traffic on Keystone Road.
      (1)   Definitions. Words and phrases contained within this division (C),
except where otherwise specifically provided, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
      (2)   Regulation of length of vehicles utilizing Keystone Road. It shall
be unlawful for any trucks or truck/trailer combinations in excess of 22 feet
in length to utilize the portion of Keystone Road between Richlandtown Pike (SR
4047) and the Richland Township Line within the township, with the exception of
local deliveries and pickups.
      (3)   Temporary and emergency suspensions. The Township Supervisors or
the Chief of Police shall have the power to temporarily suspend this division
(C) in the time of an emergency.
      (4)   Signage. The township shall, upon the passage of this division (C)
and prior to enforcement, ensure that proper signage is installed to provide
proper notification to all vehicular traffic of this size/length limitation on
Keystone Road.
      (5)   Authority of police. Township police officers and the state police
shall have authority to enforce this division (C).
      (6)   Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this division
(C) shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$300 together with any court costs associated with the case.
   (D)   Truck traffic on Woodcock Lane.
      (1)   Definitions. Words and phrases contained within this division (D),
except where otherwise specifically provided, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
      (2)   Regulation of length of vehicles utilizing Woodcock Lane. It shall
be unlawful for any trucks or truck/trailer combinations in excess of 22 feet
in length to utilize the portion of Woodcock Lane within the township, with the
exception of local deliveries and pickups.
      (3)   Temporary and emergency suspensions. The Township Supervisors or
the Chief of Police shall have the power to temporarily suspend this division
(D) in the time of an emergency.
      (4)   Signage. The township shall, upon the passage of this division (D)
and prior to enforcement, ensure that proper signage is installed to provide
proper notification to all vehicular traffic of this size/length limitation on
Woodcock Lane.
      (5)   Authority of police. Township police officers and the state police
shall have authority to enforce this division (D).
      (6)   Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this division
(D) shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$300 together with any court costs associated with the case.
   (E)   Drifting Drive and Springtown Hill Road.
      (1)   Definitions and interpretations.
         (a)   Words and phrases contained within this division (E), except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. § 101 et seq.
         (b)   In this division (E), the singular shall include the plural, the
plural shall include the singular and masculine shall include the feminine.
      (2)   Regulation of length of vehicles utilizing Drifting Drive and
Springtown Hill Road. It shall be unlawful for any trucks or truck/trailer
combinations in excess of 22 feet in length to utilize the portions of Drifting
Drive and Springtown Hill Road within Springfield Township, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, with the exception of local deliveries and pickups.
      (3)   Temporary and emergency suspensions. The Township Supervisors or
the Chief of Police shall have the power to temporarily suspend this division
(E) in the time of an emergency.
      (4)   Signage. Springfield Township shall, upon the passage of this
division (E) and prior to enforcement, ensure that proper signage is installed
to provide proper notification to all vehicular traffic of this size/length
limitation on Drifting Drive and Springtown Hill Road.
      (5)   Authority of police. Springfield Township police officers and the
Pennsylvania State Police shall have authority to enforce this division (E).
      (6)   Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this division
(E) shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$300 together with any court costs associated with the case.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-9-1986; Ord. 166, passed 8-27-2013; Ord. 182, passed 3-22-
2016; Ord. 184, passed 9-27-2016; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 204, passed
7-25-2023)
SCHEDULE V. ENGINE BRAKE RETARDERS.
   (A)   Definitions. Words and phrases contained within this schedule, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
   (B)   Brake retarder prohibition. No operator of any gasoline-powered or
diesel-powered motor vehicle shall engage, use or otherwise operate an engine
brake retarding device on the following roads in the township:
      (1)   State Road (SR 4067) between Tumblebrook Road (T-393) and
Quakertown Road (SR 0212); and
      (2)   Richlandtown Pike (SR 4047) between Keystone Road (T-518) and
Peppermint Road (T-489).
   (C)   Emergency situations exception. This prohibition shall not apply to
emergency driving situations requiring the utilization of an engine brake
retarder to protect the safety and property of the residents of the township,
other motor vehicle operators, pedestrians, and the operator and passengers of
the motor vehicle involved in said emergency situation.
   (D)   Signage. The township shall, upon the passage of this schedule and
prior to enforcement, ensure that proper signage that complies with the rules
and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation is installed
to provide proper notification to all vehicular traffic of this prohibition in
the following locations:
      (1)   State Road.
         (a)   Eastbound from Tumblebrook Road:
            1.   Sixty feet past Tumblebrook Road;
            2.   Sixty feet past Richlandtown Pike; and
            3.   One hundred feet prior to Quakertown Road.
         (b)   Westbound from Quakertown Road:
            1.   One hundred sixty feet past Quakertown Road; and
            2.   Ninety feet past Richlandtown Pike.
      (2)   Richlandtown Pike.
         (a)   Eastbound from California Road:
            1.   Sixty feet past California Road; and
            2.   Three hundred feet before Peppermint Road.
         (b)   Westbound from Peppermint Road:
            1.   Forty feet past Peppermint Road; and
            2.   One hundred twenty feet before California Road
   (E)   Authority of police. Township police officers and the state police
shall have authority to enforce this schedule.
   (F)   Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this schedule
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $600
together with any court costs associated with the case, and in default of
payment of such fines and/or court costs, to imprisonment in the county
correctional facility for not more than ten days.
(Ord. 181, passed 2-23-2016)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING
      
92.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
93.   STREETS AND ROADS; DRIVEWAYS
      
94.   PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisances defined and prohibited
   
90.03   Prohibited activity
   
90.04   Remedies of the township
Throwing, Accumulating or Dumping Garbage And/Or Refuse
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Lots, shores and sewer inlets
   
90.17   Public highways and roadways
   
90.18   Public or private dumps
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLE. Any automobile, trailer or other vehicle whose
state of disrepair is such that it poses a risk of harm to children or other
members of the public, or poses a risk of attracting and/or serving as shelter
for snakes, vermin, insects or other wild animals.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURE. Any building which has deteriorated to the state where
it is dangerous and unsafe for human occupancy, constitutes a fire hazard,
endangers surrounding buildings, shelters rats or other vermin, endangers the
safety of children playing thereabouts or endangers other members of the
public.
   GARBAGE or RUBBISH. All types of material having only a junk or salvage
value, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, glass, industrial waste,
trailers, boats, furniture and parts thereof, the storage of which poses a risk
of harm to children or other members of the public, or poses a risk of
attracting and/or serving as shelter for snakes, vermin, insects or other wild
animals.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership or corporation, or unincorporated
association.
   PROPERTY. Property shall include both private and public property.
(Ord. 151, passed 10-28-2008)
§ 90.02 NUISANCES DEFINED AND PROHIBITED.
   (A)   An abandoned or junked vehicle is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
is prohibited.
   (B)   A dangerous structure is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
prohibited.
   (C)   The accumulation of garbage or rubbish is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is prohibited.
   (D)   The unreasonable, unwarrantable or unlawful use of public or private
property which causes, injury, damage, hurt, inconvenience, annoyance or
discomfort to any person or resident in the legitimate enjoyment of his or her
reasonable rights is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
(Ord. 151, passed 10-28-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause, create or maintain
a nuisance within the limits of the township or adjacent to the limits of the
township such that the nuisance causes injury, damage, hurt, inconvenience,
annoyance or discomfort to any person or resident in the legitimate enjoyment
of his or her reasonable rights.
(Ord. 151, passed 10-28-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 REMEDIES OF THE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   The township shall have the right and authority to remove any
dangerous structure on public or private property after a person is found
guilty of violating the provisions of this subchapter. Following a conviction,
the township shall provide 30-days’ written notice to the owner or occupant to
remove such nuisance. Upon default of the owner or occupant of such premises to
remove such dangerous structure, the township may remove the dangerous
structure and collect the cost of same from the owner or occupant, by any legal
means including filing a municipal lien, or by an action of assumpsit without
the
filing of a municipal claim.
   (B)   With respect to all other nuisances, the township shall have the right
to institute proceedings in equity in the Court of Common Pleas to seek the
removal of abandoned or junked vehicles and garbage or rubbish and to collect
the cost of same from the owner or occupant, by any legal means including
filing a municipal lien.
   (C)   In addition thereto, the township shall have the right to institute
proceedings in equity in the Court of Common Pleas to enforce all other terms
and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 151, passed 10-28-2008)
THROWING, ACCUMULATING OR DUMPING GARBAGE AND/OR REFUSE
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Any offal, fish, fruit, vegetable or animal matter, liquid or
otherwise, attending the preparation, use or cooking of or dealing in meat,
fish, fruit, vegetables and any other organic substance subject to fermentation
or decay, and house and storage sweepings and tin cans which contain animal or
vegetable matter, and other articles and materials ordinarily used for food
which have become unfit for such use or which are, for any reason, discarded.
      MANURE, COMPOST AND FERTILIZER ACCUMULATION. When used in connection with
the ordinary use of the premises and the customary occupation of the occupant
of the same, are hereby expressly excepted from the definitions of GARBAGE and
REFUSE contained within this section, and are not subject to the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or
corporation.
      REFUSE. Tinware, wire, paper, rags, excelsior, straw, boxes, mattresses,
old clothes, old shoes, leather scrap, rubber scrap, carpet, oil cloth,
bottles, broken glass, broken crockery and similar waste materials which result
from the ordinary conduct of housekeeping, including, but not necessarily being
limited to, all ashes and both combustible and noncombustible waste.
   (B)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine, and the neuter.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-3-1959)
§ 90.16 LOTS, SHORES AND SEWER INLETS.
   No person shall cast any garbage or refuse upon any lot or piece of ground
of another within the township, or upon the shores or margin of any stream or
body of water, or into any sewer inlet, or upon any sidewalk in the said
township.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-3-1959) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND ROADWAYS.
   No person shall throw or cause to be thrown any garbage or refuse in, upon
or along any public highway or roadway within the township.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-3-1959) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 PUBLIC OR PRIVATE DUMPS.
   No person shall use or permit to be used any spot or place within the
township as a public or private dump for garbage or refuse unless such person
shall first obtain from the Board of Supervisors of the township, a permit
authorizing the use of the premises designated in said permit as a public or
private dump. Said permits shall be issued by the Board of Supervisors annually
for a fee of $5 to be paid to the said Board of Supervisors at the time the
application for the permit shall be filed. Said permits shall be issued by the
Board of Township Supervisors for the period commencing July 1 and ending June
30 of the following year, or any fractional period thereof, and said permits
shall be renewed annually.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-3-1959) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.04 in a summary proceeding before a Magisterial District Judge shall be
fined not more than $300 plus costs for each and every offense or, upon default
in payment of the fine and costs, by imprisonment in the county prison for a
period not to exceed 90 days. Each day that such violation is continued after
notice shall constitute a new and separate offense, punishable by like fine,
penalty or imprisonment; and further notices to the offender shall not be
required in order to constitute such continuances as an additional offense or
offenses.
   (C)   Any person, corporation, or entity who violates any provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.18 shall be, upon conviction, sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000, or in default thereof, be sentenced to a period in county jail not
exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-3-1959; Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 151, passed 10-28-
2008)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING
Section
Air Pollution Control; Open Burning
   
91.01   Authority
   
91.02   Policy
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Regulations
   
91.05   Collection of costs
   
91.06   Public nuisances
Outdoor Wood-Fired Boilers
   
91.20   Authority
   
91.21   Applicability
   
91.22   Purpose and scope
   
91.23   Definitions
   
91.24   Regulations
   
91.25   Unlawful conduct
   
91.26   Public nuisances
   
91.99   Penalty
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL; OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township, Bucks County under, and by
virtue of and pursuant to the authority granted by the Second Class Township
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 66506 and 66529, and the Air Pollution Control Act, 35 P.S. §§
4001 et seq., does hereby enact and ordain this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.02 POLICY.
   The Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township, Bucks County has
determined that air pollution from open burning may be detrimental to the
health, comfort, living conditions, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
township. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the township to safeguard
the citizens of the township from such air pollution.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR BASIN.  The township is included in the Southeast Pennsylvania Air Basin
and is subject to those state and federal regulations concerning air basins.
   AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. A mechanical device which forcefully projects a
curtain of air across a pit in which open burning is being conducted so that
combustion efficiency is increased and smoke and other particulate matter are
contained.
   BOARD. The Township Board of Supervisors.
   BURNING. The act of consuming by fire to flame, char, scorch or blaze. As
used in this subchapter, smoldering shall have the same meaning as burning and
any smoldering shall be deemed a burning.
   CLEARING AND GRUBBING WASTES. Trees, shrubs and other native vegetation
which are cleared from land during or prior to the process of construction. The
term does not include demolition wastes and dirt laden roots.
   COMPOSTING. The process by which organic solid waste is biologically
decomposed under controlled anaerobic or aerobic conditions to yield a humus-
like product.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE. Waste which is generated from the normal occupancy of a
structure occupied solely as a dwelling by two families or less. The term does
not include appliances, carpets, demolition waste (insulation, shingles, siding
and the like), furniture, mattresses or box springs, paint, putrescible waste,
plastics, packaging, solvents, tires or treated wood.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, incorporated town, township, borough, county,
municipal authority or other public body created under state law having
jurisdiction over the disposal of sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire, the air contaminants from which are emitted directly
into the outdoor atmosphere and not directed thereto through a flue.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings, chipped
shrubbery and other vegetative material.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.04 REGULATIONS.
   No person may permit or engage in the open burning of material with the
exception of the following:
   (A)   A fire set to prevent or abate a fire hazard, when approved by the
Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air Quality Program office
and set by or under the supervision of a public officer.
   (B)   Any fire set for the purpose of instructing personnel in firefighting,
when approved by the Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air
Quality Program office.
   (C)   A fire set for the prevention and control of disease or pests, when
approved by the Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air Quality
Program office.
   (D)   A fire set for the purpose of burning clearing and grubbing waste. An
air basin and air curtain destructor must be used and must be approved by the
Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air Quality Program office.
   (E)   A fire set in conjunction with the production of agricultural
commodities in their unmanufactured state on the premises of the farm
operation.
   (F)   A fire set for the purpose of burning that amount of domestic refuse
generated from one dwelling, when the fire is on the premises of a structure
occupied solely as a dwelling by two families or less and when the refuse
results from the normal occupancy of said structure, except that such burning
shall be prohibited on Sundays and Mondays.
   (F)   A fire set for the purpose of burning that amount of yard waste
generated from the premises of a structure occupied solely as a dwelling by two
families or less when the fire is on the premises of said structure, except
that such burning shall be prohibited on Sundays and Mondays.
   (G)   A fire set solely for cooking food.
   (H)   A fire set solely for recreational or ceremonial purposes.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   For purposes of collecting or recovering the costs involved in taking
corrective action or pursuing a cost recovery action pursuant to an order or
recovering the cost of litigation, oversight, monitoring, sampling, testing,
and investigation related to a corrective action, the township may collect the
amount in the same manner as civil penalties are assessed and collected
following the process for assessment and collection of a civil penalty
contained in §
91.99(A).
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.06 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06 or of any order issued by the township, under §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall constitute a public nuisance. The township shall have the authority
to order any person causing a public nuisance to abate the public nuisance. In
addition, when abating a public nuisance, the township may recover the expenses
of abatement following the process for assessment and collection.
(Ord. passed - - )
OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILERS
§ 91.20 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township, Bucks County, under, and
by virtue of and pursuant to the authority granted by the Second Class Township
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 66506 and 66529, and the Air Pollution Control Act, 35 P.S. §
4001 et seq., does hereby enact and ordain this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.21 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
91.24(J), this subchapter applies to the installation and use of all outdoor
wood-fired boilers within the township.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.22 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township has determined that air pollution
from outdoor wood-fired boilers may be detrimental to the health, comfort,
living conditions, welfare and safety of the citizens of the township. It is
hereby declared to be the policy of the township to safeguard the citizens of
the township from such air pollution.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APCA. The Air Pollution Control Act.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood that has no paint, stains, or other types of
coatings, and natural wood that has not been treated with, including but not
limited to, copper chromium arsenate, creosote, or pentachlorophenol.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD. The Township Board of Supervisors.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, incorporated town, township, borough, county,
municipal authority, or other public body created under state law having
jurisdiction over the disposal of sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. Also known as outdoor wood-fired furnaces,
outdoor wood-burning appliances, or outdoor hydronic heaters, water stoves and
the like. A fuel-burning device:
      (1)   Designed to burn clean wood or other approved solid fuels;
      (2)   That the manufacturer specifies for outdoor installation or for
installation in structures not normally intended for habitation by humans or
domestic animals, including structures such as garages and sheds; and
      (3)   Which heats building space and/or water through the distribution,
typically through pipes, of a fluid heated in the device, typically water or a
mixture of water and antifreeze.
   PHASE 2 OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. An outdoor wood-fired boiler that has
been certified or qualified by the EPA as meeting a particulate matter emission
limit of 0.32 pounds per million British Thermal Units output and is labeled
accordingly. PHASE 2 OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER models will be identified with a
white hang tag.
   RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL. Person designated by the municipality to be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
   STACK. Any vertical structure enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke
or exhaust from a furnace, especially that part of a structure extending above
a roof.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.24 REGULATIONS.
   An outdoor wood-fired boiler may be installed, used or operated in the
township only in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Zoning requirements for new outdoor wood-fired boilers. No person
shall install an outdoor wood-fired boiler except in the following area(s)
zoned for its use: WS, AD, RP or RR.
   (B)   Particulate standard requirements for new outdoor wood-fired boilers.
No person shall install an outdoor wood-fired boiler that is not a phase 2
outdoor wood-fired boiler.
   (C)   Setback requirements for new outdoor wood-fired boilers. No person
shall install an outdoor wood-fired boiler unless it is installed at least 150
feet from the nearest property line.
   (D)   Stack height requirements for new outdoor wood-fired boilers. No
person shall install an outdoor wood-fired boiler unless it has a permanent
attached stack with a minimum stack height of ten feet above the ground that
also extends at least two feet above the highest peak of any dwelling unit
located less than 150 feet from the outdoor wood-fired boiler.
   (E)   Stack height requirements for existing outdoor wood-fired boilers. No
person shall use or operate an outdoor wood-fired boiler that was installed
before the date of adoption of this code unless it has a permanent attached
stack with a minimum stack height of ten feet above the ground that also
extends at least two feet above the highest peak of any residence located less
than 500 feet from the outdoor wood-fired boiler. However, if the existing
outdoor wood-fired boiler is a phase 2 outdoor wood-fired boiler, division (D)
will apply.
   (F)   Fuel requirements for new and existing outdoor wood-fired boilers. No
person that operates a new or existing outdoor wood-fired boiler shall use a
fuel other than the following:
      (1)   Clean wood;
      (2)   Wood pellets made from clean wood; or
      (3)   Home heating oil, natural gas, propane or other fuel source that
complies with all applicable sulfur limits and is used as a starter or
supplemental fuel for dual-fired outdoor wood-fired boilers.
   (G)   Prohibited fuels for new and existing outdoor wood-fired boilers. No
person shall burn any of the following items in an outdoor wood-fired boiler:
      (1)   Any material not listed in division (F);
      (2)   Treated or painted wood;
      (3)   Furniture;
      (4)   Garbage;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Lawn clippings or yard waste;
      (7)   Material containing plastic;
      (8)   Material containing rubber;
      (9)   Waste petroleum products;
      (10)   Paints and paint thinners;
      (11)   Chemicals;
      (12)   Any hazardous waste;
      (13)   Coal;
      (14)   Glossy colored paper;
      (15)   Construction and demolition debris;
      (16)   Plywood;
      (17)   Particleboard;
      (18)   Salt water driftwood;
      (19)   Manure;
      (20)   Animal carcasses; or
      (21)   Asphalt products.
   (H)   Prohibition of operation for new and existing outdoor wood-fired
boilers. No person shall use or operate a new or existing outdoor wood-fired
boiler between the dates of May 1 and September 30.
   (I)   Regulatory requirements for new and existing outdoor wood-fired
boilers. No person shall use or operate a new or existing outdoor wood-fired
boiler unless it complies with all existing state and local regulations. Some
regulations of this Commonwealth that could apply include:
      (1)   25 Pa.Code § 121.7 – prohibition of air pollution;
      (2)   25 Pa.Code § 123.1 – fugitive emissions;
      (3)   25 Pa.Code § 123.31 – odor emissions;
      (4)   25 Pa.Code § 123.41 – visible emissions;
      (5)   Section 8 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4008 – unlawful conduct; or
      (6)   Section 13 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4013 – public nuisances.
   (J)   Permits for new and existing outdoor wood-fired boilers. No person
shall install, use or operate an outdoor wood-fired boiler unless a permit is
first obtained from the township. Failure to obtain a permit in advance of
installing, using or operating an outdoor wood-fired boiler shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter and subject the person in violation to the
criminal and civil penalties listed in §
91.99(B). The permit application shall include a plot plan to determine
compliance with divisions (C), (D) and (E) in this section, as well as the
manufacturer’s specification sheet to determine compliance with division (B) of
this section.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with or to cause or assist in the
violation of any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.26 or to fail to comply with any order or other requirement of the township
or to cause a public nuisance; or to hinder, obstruct, prevent, or interfere
with the township or its personnel in their performance of any duty hereunder,
including denying the responsible official access to the source or facility.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of this subchapter or of any order issued by the township under
this subchapter shall constitute a public nuisance. The township shall have the
authority to order any person causing a public nuisance to abate the public
nuisance. In addition, when abating a public nuisance, the township may recover
the expenses of abatement following the process for assessment and collection
of a civil penalty contained in §
91.99(B)(2). Whenever the nuisance is maintained or continued contrary to this
subchapter or any order issued pursuant to this subchapter, the nuisance may be
abatable in the manner provided by this ordinance. Any person who causes the
public nuisance shall be liable for the cost of abatement.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Air pollution control; opening burning.
      (1)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.06 or any order of the township issued pursuant to §§
91.01 through
91.06 commits a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay
a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $2,500 for each separate offense
and, in default of the payment of such fine, may be sentenced to imprisonment
for 90 days for each separate offense. Employees of the township authorized to
conduct inspections or investigations are hereby declared to be law enforcement
officers authorized to issue or file citations for summary violations under §§
91.01 through
91.06, and the township is hereby authorized to prosecute these offenses. For
purposes of this division (A)(1), a summary offense may be prosecuted before
any district justice with jurisdiction in the township. There is no accelerated
rehabilitative disposition authorized for a summary offense.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   In addition to proceeding under any other remedy available at
law or in equity for a violation of a provision of §§
91.01 through
91.06 or any order issued pursuant to §§
91.01 through
91.06, the township may assess a civil penalty for the violation. The penalty
may be assessed whether or not the violation was willful. The civil penalty so
assessed shall not exceed $25,000 per day for each violation. In determining
the amount of the penalty, the township shall consider the willfulness of the
violation; damage to air, soil, water, or other natural resources of the
township or their uses; financial benefit to the person in consequence of the
violation; deterrence of future violations; cost to the township; the size of
the source or facility; the compliance history of the source; the severity and
duration of the violation; degree of cooperation in resolving the violation;
the speed with which compliance is ultimately achieved; whether the violation
was voluntarily reported; other factors unique to the owners or operators of
the source or facility; and other relevant factors.
         (b)   When the township proposes to assess a civil penalty, it shall
inform the person of the proposed amount of the penalty. The person charged
with the penalty shall then have 30 days to pay the proposed penalty in full;
or if the person wishes to contest the amount of the penalty or the fact of the
violation to the extent not already established, the person shall forward the
proposed amount of the penalty to the township within the 30-day period for
placement in an escrow account with the township or post an appeal bond to the
township within 30 days in the amount of the proposed penalty, provided that
such bond is executed by a surety licensed to do business in the Commonwealth
and is satisfactory to the township. If, through administrative or final
judicial review of the proposed penalty, it is determined that no violation
occurred or that the amount of the penalty shall be reduced, the township
shall, within 30 days, remit the appropriate amount to the person with any
interest accumulated by the escrow deposit. Failure to forward the money or the
appeal bond at the time of the appeal shall result in a waiver of all legal
rights to contest the violation or the amount of the civil penalty unless the
appellant alleges financial inability to prepay the penalty or to post the
appeal bond. The township shall conduct a hearing to consider the appellant’s
alleged inability to pay within 30 days of the date of appeal. The township may
waive the requirement to prepay the civil penalty or to post an appeal bond if
the appellant demonstrates and the township finds that the appellant is
financially unable to pay. The township shall issue an order within 30 days of
the date of the hearing to consider the appellant’s alleged inability to pay.
The amount assessed after an administrative hearing or after waiver of
administrative hearing shall be payable to the township, and shall be
collectible in any manner provided by law for the collection of debts,
including the collection of interest on the penalty amount computed in
accordance with Internal Revenue Code of 1986 § 6621(a)(2) (Public Law 99-514,
26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) from the date of assessment of the penalty. If any
person liable to pay any such penalty neglects or refuses to pay the same after
demand, the amount, together with interest and any costs that may accrue, shall
constitute a debt of such person, as may be appropriate, to the township. The
debt shall constitute a lien on all property owned by said person when a notice
of lien incorporating a description of the property of the person subject to
the action is duly filed with the prothonotary of the court of common pleas
where the property is located. The prothonotary shall promptly enter upon the
civil judgment or order docket, at no cost to the township, the name and
address of the person, as may be appropriate, and the amount of the lien as set
forth in the notice of lien. Upon entry by the prothonotary, the lien shall
attach to the revenues and all real and personal property of the person,
whether or not the person is solvent. The notice of lien, filed pursuant to
this division (A)(2)(b), which affects the property of the person shall create
a lien with priority over all subsequent claims or liens which are filed
against the person, but it shall not affect any valid lien, right, or interest
in the property filed in accordance with established procedure prior to the
filing of a notice of lien under this section.
         (c)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with or to cause or
assist in the violation of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.06 or to fail to comply with any order or other requirement of the township,
or to cause a public nuisance; or to cause air, soil, or water pollution
resulting from an open burning incident; or to hinder, obstruct, prevent, or
interfere with the township, or its personnel in their performance of any duty
hereunder, including denying the Zoning Officer access to the source or
facility; or to violate the provisions of 18 Pa.C.S. § 4903 (relating to false
swearing) or 18 Pa.C.S. § 4904 (relating to unsworn falsification to
authorities) in regard to papers required to be submitted under §§
91.01 through
91.06. The owner or operator of an open burning source shall not allow
pollution of the air, water, or other natural resources of the township, to
result from the source.
   (B)   Outdoor wood-fired boilers.
      (1)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.20 through
91.26 or any order of the township issued pursuant to §§
91.20 through
91.26 commits a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay
a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $2,500 for each separate offense
and, in default of the payment of such fine, may be sentenced to imprisonment
for 90 days for each separate offense. Employees of the township authorized to
conduct inspections or investigations are hereby declared to be code
enforcement or zoning officers authorized to issue or file citations for
summary violations under §§
91.20 through
91.26. For purposes of this section, a summary offense may be prosecuted before
any district justice with jurisdiction in the township. There is no accelerated
rehabilitative disposition authorized for a summary offense.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   In addition to proceeding under any other remedy available at
law or in equity for a violation of a provision of §§
91.20 through
91.26 or any order issued pursuant to §§
91.20 through
91.26, the township may assess a civil penalty for the violation. The penalty
may be assessed whether or not the violation was willful. The civil penalty so
assessed shall not exceed $25,000 per day for each violation. In determining
the amount of the penalty, the township shall consider the willfulness of the
violation; damage to air, soil, water, or other natural resources of the
township or their uses; financial benefit to the person in consequence of the
violation; deterrence of future violations; cost to the township; the size of
the source or facility; the compliance history of the source; the severity and
duration of the violation; degree of cooperation in resolving the violation;
the speed with which compliance is ultimately achieved; whether the violation
was voluntarily reported; other factors unique to the owners or operators of
the source or facility; and other relevant factors.
         (b)   When the township proposes to assess a civil penalty, it shall
inform the person of the proposed amount of the penalty. The person charged
with the penalty shall then have 30 days to pay the proposed penalty in full;
or if the person wishes to contest the amount of the penalty or the fact of the
violation to the extent not already established, the person shall forward the
proposed amount of the penalty to township within the 30-day period for
placement in an escrow account with the township or any Commonwealth bank, or
post an appeal bond to the township within 30 days in the amount of the
proposed penalty, provided that such bond is executed by a surety licensed to
do business in the Commonwealth and is satisfactory to the township. If,
through administrative or final judicial review of the proposed penalty, it is
determined that no violation occurred or that the amount of the penalty shall
be reduced, the township shall, within 30 days, remit the appropriate amount to
the person with any interest accumulated by the escrow deposit. Failure to
forward the money or the appeal bond at the time of the appeal shall result in
a waiver of all legal rights to contest the violation or the amount of the
civil penalty unless the appellant alleges financial inability to prepay the
penalty or to post the appeal bond. The township shall conduct a hearing to
consider the appellant’s alleged inability to pay within 30 days of the date of
the appeal. The township may waive the requirement to prepay the civil penalty
or to post an appeal bond if the appellant demonstrates and the township finds
that the appellant is financially unable to pay. The township shall issue an
order within 30 days of the date of the hearing to consider the appellant’s
alleged inability to pay. The amount assessed after administrative hearing or
after waiver of administrative hearing shall be payable to the township and
shall be collectible in any manner provided by law for the collection of debts,
including the collection of interest on the penalty amount computed in
accordance with Internal Revenue Code of 1986 § 6621(a)(2) (Public Law 99-514,
26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) from the date of assessment of the penalty. If any
person liable to pay any such penalty neglects or refuses to pay the same after
demand, the amount, together with interest and any costs that may accrue, shall
constitute a debt of such person, as may be appropriate, to the township. The
debt shall constitute a lien on all property owned by said person when a notice
of lien incorporating a description of the property of the person subject to
the action is duly filed with the prothonotary of the court of common pleas
where the property is located. The prothonotary shall promptly enter upon the
civil judgment or order docket, at no cost to the township the name and address
of the person, as may be appropriate, and the amount of the lien as set forth
in the notice of lien. Upon entry by the prothonotary, the lien shall attach to
the revenues and all real and personal property of the person, whether or not
the person is solvent. The notice of lien, filed pursuant to this subsection
(2), which affects the property of the person shall create a lien with priority
over all subsequent claims or liens which are filed against the person, but it
shall not affect any valid lien, right, or interest in the property filed in
accordance with established procedure prior to the filing of a notice of lien
under this subsection (2).
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 92: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Regulations
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device which is
designed or used for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or facility, or for alerting others about the commission of an
unlawful act within a building, structure or facility, or for alerting others
about the existence of any other condition requiring response of police, fire
or ambulance personnel, and which emits and/or transmits an audible and/or
visual signal or message when activated. ALARM SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, direct-dial telephone devices, audible alarms and subscriber
alarms.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device that emits an audible signal from the premises that
it is designed to protect.
   DIRECT-DIAL ALARM. A device that, when actuated, causes a recorded message
to be transmitted, via telephone, stating that emergency response is necessary.
   EMERGENCY PHONE NUMBER. The primary phone number advertised to the public
for requesting emergency services.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal, necessitating response by an emergency agency,
when an emergency situation does not exist.
   TOWNSHIP. Township of Springfield.
(Ord. 47, passed 10-23-1984)
§ 92.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons, entities, firms,
corporations or other groups that maintain alarm systems within the township,
to provide current information to the Township Police Department and emergency
agency, if other than police, consisting of the names and telephone numbers of
responsible persons who may be contacted in case of an emergency or who are
authorized to provide service to the alarm system, either must be available on
a 24-hour basis.
   (B)   Audible alarms must be silenced within 30 minutes after a designated
responsible person is notified to do so by the township police, or the alarm
system may be equipped with a timing device that will automatically silence the
audible alarm within 30 minutes after it is actuated.
   (C)   The direct-dial alarms shall not be connected to the emergency agency
emergency phone number. Direct-dial alarms shall equipped so as to prevent more
than three repeated transmissions of an alarm for the same emergency.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons, entities, firms
and corporations installing such systems within the township to prevent the
transmission of false alarms through a program of training, and periodic
inspection and maintenance of the system.
      (2)   The maximum permissible number of false alarms from any one
location shall be as follows:
         (a)   Two false alarms in any 30-day period; or
         (b)   Four false alarms in any one-year period.
      (3)   False alarms in excess of these standards shall be a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the general alerting
alarms that may be used by fire companies, ambulance squads or civil defense
agencies to summon response of their members.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alarm systems that
are affixed to motor vehicles.
(Ord. 47, passed 10-23-1984)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any owner, lessee or user found guilty of violating this
chapter shall be fined not less than $125 and no more than $1,000. Failure to
comply with any written notice sent by the township police within three days of
receipt shall be deemed a violation.
   (B)   False alarm violation. Any owner, lessee or user found guilty of
misuse or repeated false activation shall be liable for a fine of not less than
$125 and not more than $1,000, plus costs of prosecution for each and every
false activation to be collectible before District Magistrate as like fines and
penalties are not collected by law.
(Ord. 47, passed 10-23-1984; Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND ROADS; DRIVEWAYS
Section
Standards for Construction of Streets and Roads
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Applicability
   
93.03   Plan drawings
   
93.04   Street classification
   
93.05   Street dimensional standards
   
93.06   Driveway maintenance
   
93.07   Construction specifications
Opening or Cutting Streets; Installing Driveways
   
93.20   General
   
93.21   Rules and regulations
   
93.22   Procedure for obtaining a permit
   
93.23   Issuance of permits and inspections
 
   
93.99   Penalty
STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND ROADS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS. Designed for large volumes of high-speed traffic with
access to abutting properties restricted. Ultimate rights-of-way shall be 100
feet.
   CARTWAY. The paved portion of a street between curbs or shoulders.
   COLLECTOR HIGHWAYS. Designed to carry a moderate volume of fast-moving
traffic from primary and secondary streets to arterial highways, with access to
abutting properties restricted. Ultimate rights-of-way shall be 80 feet.
   LOCAL ACCESS ROADS. Designed to provide access to abutting properties and to
primary streets. Ultimate rights-of-way shall be 52 feet along local access
streets.
   PRIMARY STREETS. Designed to carry a moderate volume of traffic, to
intercept local access roads, to provide routes to collector highways, and to
provide access to abutting properties. Ultimate rights-of-way shall be 64 feet.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street.
   STREET. Includes the word ROAD.
   TOWNSHIP. Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
   ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right-of-way width required for the expansion of
streets to accommodate anticipated future traffic and/or to provide future
access to or through undeveloped land.
§ 93.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall construct or
open any new road, street, alley, easement or right-of-way, or part of same,
for public use or travel in the township without first submitting plans thereof
and receiving approval of the township.
   (B)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall alter, open,
reroute or otherwise modify any existing public road, street, alley, easement
of right-of-way, or part of same for public use or travel in the township
without first submitting plans thereof and receiving approval of the township.
Routine repair or replacement of existing utility poles are exempt.
   (C)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall lay, install,
replace or alter any drain, culvert, storm sewer or roadside swale within or
discharging to a public right-of way without first submitting plans thereof and
receiving approval of the township.
   (D)   Driveways serving single-family and two-family dwellings shall be
regulated by §
93.20
   (E)   New private roads shall only be allowed upon approval of a subdivision
or land development plan submitted in accordance with the procedures of
Chapter 153, § 505.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PLAN DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Plans submitted for review and approval for new public or private
streets shall comply with
Chapter 153, § 403.
   (B)   As-built plans, when required by the Township Engineer, shall conform
to
Chapter 153, § 405.
   (C)   Plans submitted for review and approval for utility openings of a
cartway shall conform to
Chapter 153, § 403, and shall provide a detail of restoration in conformance
with
Chapter 153, § 506. Plans submitted for review and approval for utility
openings of a right-of-way outside of the cartway shall conform to
Chapter 153, § 403 and shall document any changes to the existing drainage
within the right-of-way.
§ 93.04 STREET CLASSIFICATION.
   The following street hierarchy shall be utilized for determination of
required right-of-way and cartway width:
   (A)   Arterial. Route 309.
   (B)   Collector.
      (1)   Passer Road;
      (2)   Quakertown Road (Route 212);
      (3)   Richlandtown Pike;
      (4)    Old Bethlehem Pike;
      (5)    Route 412;
      (6)   State Road; and
      (7)   Old Bethlehem Road.
   (C)   Primary.
      (1)   Bursonville Road;
      (2)   Township Road;
      (3)   Pleasant View Road;
      (4)   Springtown Hill Road;
      (5)   Cherry Road;
      (6)   Trolley Bridge Road;
      (7)   Lehnenberg Road;
      (8)   Slifer Valley Road;
      (9)   Gallows Hill Road;
      (10)   Peppermint Road;
      (11)   Drifting Drive; and
      (12)   Springfield Street.
   (D)   All remaining roads. All remaining roads are considered local access
roads.
§ 93.05 STREET DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following dimensional standards shall apply for the various
classifications of existing streets and comply with
Chapter 153, § 506:
 
             Ultimate Right-of-Way Cartway
Arterial     100 feet              As required by PennDot
Collector    80 feet               28 feet
Primary      64 feet               28 feet
Local access 52 feet               24 feet (26 feet if curb required)
 
   (B)   Dimensional standards shall apply for new streets as specified in
Chapter 153, § 506.3(B).
   (C)   The township reserves the right to modify the above standards in order
to lessen traffic congestion, to secure safety, to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation and other public facilities, and to promote the
general welfare.
§ 93.06 DRIVEWAY MAINTENANCE.
   Private driveways or agricultural access points shall not divert water onto
a cartway either by design or through lack of maintenance. Maintaining positive
drainage across private driveways within a public right-of-way shall be the
responsibility of the individual property owner. Failure to maintain positive
drainage that results in water flowing onto a cartway is a violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalty provisions in §
93.99.
§ 93.07 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All design and construction proposed within the right-of-way of existing
streets, and all design and construction of new streets intended to be
dedicated to the township, shall conform to the following publications of the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation:
   (A)   Publication 408, Specifications, dated 1987, as amended;
   (B)   Publication 13, Design Manual Part 2 - Highway Design, dated August
1981, as amended;
   (C)   Pa.Code, Title 67, Transportation, Chapter 441, Access to and
Occupancy of Highways by Driveways and Local Roads, dated January 1992, as
amended;
   (D)   Publication 68, Official Traffic Control Devices, Title 67, Chapter
211, dated June 1975, as amended; and
   (E)   Publication 203, Work Zone Traffic Control, (67 Pa.Code, Chapter 203),
dated September 1983, as amended.
OPENING OR CUTTING STREETS; INSTALLING DRIVEWAYS
§ 93.20 GENERAL.
   In accordance with provisions of § 2322 of Article XI of the Second Class
Township Code, as amended, no railroad or street railway shall hereafter be
constructed upon any township road, nor shall any railroad or street railway
crossings, nor any gas pipe, water pipe, sewer pipe, electric conduits or other
piping, be laid upon or in, nor shall any telephone, telegraph or electric
light or power poles, or any other obstructions be erected upon or in, any
portion of a township road right-of-way, nor any driveway installed except
under such condition, restrictions and regulations relating to the installation
and maintenance thereof, as may be prescribed by permits issued by the township
for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Driveways serving one- and two-family dwellings shall be installed in
accordance with the specifications of
Chapter 153, § 513. Access points for agricultural uses and farm implements
shall be installed so as to prevent water flow onto a cartway, prevent mud from
being tracked onto a cartway and to maintain positive drainage parallel to the
cartway.
   (B)   Road cuts within a cartway for public or private utilities shall be
restored to the standards specified in
Chapter 153, § 506.
§ 93.22 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the
township. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the
schedule of fees set forth by the Department of Transportation. The applicant
shall pay both the application fee and inspection fee in advance.
   (B)   Plans submitted for review and approval for one- and two-family
dwellings and agriculture uses shall contain sufficient information to allow
the township designee to review and determine if the application meets the
performance standards of this subchapter. These drawings need not be sealed by
an engineer.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit two copies of a plot plan showing such
dimensions as the location of the intended facility or driveway, width of the
traveled roadway, right-of-way lines, dimension to the nearest intersection
street, a north arrow and direction of water flow. Existing features such as
poles, drains, pipes, culverts shall be marked in black or blue ink. Proposed
improvements shall be marked in red or green ink.
§ 93.23 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   The township shall issue permits and conduct inspections in accordance with
Section 2322 of the Second Class Township Code.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or utility which shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
93.02 through
93.23 shall be subject, upon conviction before a District Justice, to pay a
fine not to exceed $1,000 per violation and cost of prosecution, and in default
of the payment of such fine and costs to imprisonment in the county jail for
not more than 90 days.
CHAPTER 94: PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Section
   
94.01   Applicability
   
94.02   Prohibited conduct
   
94.03   Assumption of risk
 
   
94.99   Violations and penalties
§ 94.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Any person, party, entity, firm, group, association, organization, or
corporation using a public park, trail, open space area, recreation facility or
similar public facility shall comply with the rules and regulations contained
herein. Each and every failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be considered a separate violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 9-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, party, entity, firm, group,
association, organization, or corporation using a public park, trail, open
space area, recreation facility or similar public facility to either perform or
permit to be performed any of the following acts within such locations:
   (A)   Enter or remain in a public park after dusk and before dawn, unless
the posted hours allow otherwise.
   (B)   Possess and/or consume alcoholic beverages and/or unlawful controlled
substances.
   (C)   Engage in disorderly conduct, use indecent language, be intoxicated or
engage in other nuisance behavior.
   (D)   Allow pets to be unleashed or to engage in nuisance type or dangerous
behavior towards other park users.
   (E)   Fail to remove and properly dispose of all pet fecal matter.
   (F)   Hunt, trap, camp, horseback ride, hit golf balls, operate off-road
vehicles (i.e., ATVs, 4-wheelers, motorcycles) and ride snowmobiles.
   (G)   Discharge a firearm, crossbow or other weapon.
   (H)   Damage, deface or remove any park property.
   (I)   Litter or fail to clean up all trash, garbage and debris produced by
one's activities.
   (J)   Possess glass containers.
   (K)   Operate a motorized vehicle outside of a designated area.
   (L)   Smoke or use any tobacco product.
   (M)   Selling of food, concession or solicitation of any kind without a
permit.
   (N)   Accessing a park, open space or recreation area from a location not
designated for access by the township.
   (O)   Establish alternative entrances to the park, open space or
recreational facility.
   (P)   Operating or using a bicycle in an unsafe or hazardous manner.
   (Q)   As a bicyclist, fail to yield the right-of-way to other park/trail
users.
   (R)   Install any signage that is not approved by the township.
   (S)   Throw or propel stones, projectiles or missiles of any kind.
   (T)   Possession or use of fireworks.
   (U)   Obstruct any paths or roadways.
   (V)   Cut, remove, or destroy any tree, sapling, seedling, bush or shrub,
whether alive or dead, or chip, blaze, box, girdle, trim or otherwise deface or
injure any tree or shrub, or pick, gather, uproot, remove or destroy any
flower, plant or grass, except with a permit issued by the township.
   (W)   Remove or cause to be removed or to dig any sod, earth, humus, peat,
boulder, rock, gravel or sand, except with a permit issued by the township.
   (X)   Post any sign, banner or advertisement of a political or commercial
nature.
   (Y)   Building, starting or lighting any fires except at those places and
structures provided therefore.
   (Z)   Injure or destroy any wildlife.
   (AA)   Deface, write upon or mutilate any posted township notice.
(Ord. 199, passed 9-28-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   Any person, party, entity, firm, group, association, organization, or
corporation using a public park, trail, open space area, recreation facility or
similar public facility assumes personal responsibility and risk.
(Ord. 199, passed 9-28-2021)
§ 94.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person, party, entity, firm, group, association, organization, or
corporation using a public park, trail, open space area, recreation facility or
similar public facility in violation of this chapter shall be punishable, upon
conviction thereof by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000. In
addition, any person, party, entity, firm, group, association, organization, or
corporation using a public park, trail, open space area, recreation facility or
similar public facility who has removed, destroyed, damaged, defaced, or
befouled or permitted the removal, destruction, damaging, defacing or befouling
of any township park, trail, open space area, recreation facility or similar
public facility, or the contents thereof, shall be responsible for the cost of
repair or replacement of such damaged property, in addition to the fine.
Violators may be excluded from future use of any township park, trail, open
space area, recreation facility or similar public facility.
(Ord. 199, passed 9-28-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE OPERATIONS
      
111.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   JUNK YARDS
      
113.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: CABLE OPERATIONS
Section
Cable Television Franchise
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Franchise required
   
110.04   Grant of authority
   
110.05   Franchise term
   
110.06   Acceptance of franchise
   
110.07   Installation and extension of system
   
110.08   Regulatory action
   
110.09   Condition of street occupancy
   
110.10   Compliance with standards
   
110.11   Company liability; indemnification
   
110.12   Franchise payments
   
110.13   Complaint procedures
   
110.14   Standards of service
   
110.15   Company rules and regulations
   
110.16   Records and reports
   
110.17   Government program access
   
110.18   Expiration of franchise
   
110.19   Rates
   
110.20   Effect of new laws or regulations
Customer Service Standards
   
110.35   Definitions
   
110.36   Subscriber service standards
   
110.37   Notices
   
110.38   Enforcement
   
110.99   Penalty
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
§ 110.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Springfield Township
Cable Television Franchise Ordinance.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, words in the
singular number include the plural number, and words in the masculine gender
shall include the feminine gender. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any facility or group of facilities
which, in whole or in part, receives, modifies or originates television, FM
radio or other electrical signals for the purpose of transmitting or
distributing such signals by wire, cable or other means to subscribing members
of the public or to selected customers, as herein contemplated. This definition
shall include those systems which do not occupy or cross over or under the
public ways and places of municipality.
   FRANCHISEE. Any duly approved person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind operating under a franchise
granted pursuant to §
110.03.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Springfield, Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
acting through its duly constituted governing body.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   From and after the enactment of this subchapter, no cable television system
shall be constructed, installed or operated in the municipality unless such
construction, installation or operation shall first have been authorized by
ordinance of the municipality duly enacted, and accepted as a non-exclusive
franchise.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.04 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   Any franchise granted under §
110.03 shall include the non-exclusive right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate and maintain a cable television system in, under, over, along, across
or upon the public streets, highways, sidewalks, rights-of-way and places
within the boundaries of the municipality, to the extent permitted by law. The
franchise granted shall also be construed as to permit the franchise to attach
or otherwise affix or install its cables and other equipment to and in the
facilities of any public utility even though the same may occupy or cross over
or under the public ways and places of municipality, with the separate approval
of the public utility.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.05 FRANCHISE TERM.
   Any franchise granted under §
110.03 shall be for a period of 15 years from the effective date of the grant
of the franchise, and shall be governed by the procedures, rights and remedies
provided in § 626 of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.,
as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, P. L. No. 98-549.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.06 ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted under §
110.03 shall be upon the express condition that the franchisee, within 30 days
after written notice is given to the franchisee of the grant, shall file with
the Secretary or other duly authorized official of the municipality a written
acceptance of same. When the franchise grant shall have been accepted by the
franchisee, such ordinance granting the franchise and acceptance shall
constitute a contract between the municipality and the franchisee for all the
uses, services and purposes set forth in this subchapter. Except as may be
otherwise provided by state and/or federal law, order or regulation, the rights
and obligations of the municipality and franchisee shall be those specified
herein and shall not be enlarged, diminished or altered by any unilateral
action of municipality during the term of the franchise or renewal thereof;
provided however, that a grant of a non-exclusive franchise to any other cable
television company shall not be construed to violate this provision. The
franchisee by its acceptance of the provisions of this subchapter binds itself
to provide the necessary cable television system and to establish, operate and
maintain the local cable television system contemplated in this subchapter,
continuing without substantial interruption except for causes beyond its
control until the expiration of the terms of the grant. In the event that the
franchisee shall fail to file a written acceptance within the time hereinabove
specified, the grant shall be of no effect and void.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.07 INSTALLATION AND EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The franchisee shall serve all residents of the municipality except to
the extent that low household density, adverse terrain or other factors render
providing service impracticable or technically or economically infeasible. The
franchisee’s cable television system shall not be required to be installed in,
or extend to, areas of municipality where potential revenues from subscribers
to be served therein would produce a return insufficient to justify
economically such installation or extension.
   (B)   If otherwise practicable and technically feasible:
      (1)   Service shall be provided at normal installation and monthly
service rates to an individual customer whose point of connection is located
within 150 feet of in-place distribution cable;
      (2)   The franchisee, at its cost, shall make an extension of its cable
system where the number of existing households per linear mile of cable to be
passed by the extension equals or exceeds 20 households passed per linear mile;
and
      (3)   The franchisee shall be required to make an extension where the
number of existing households to be passed per mile is more than 20. The
franchisee, however, shall not be required to install or extend its cable
system in any areas where it cannot obtain necessary rights-of-way over private
property except in those instances where the payment to third parties to obtain
the corresponding one mile right-of-way would be less than one-third of
franchisee’s annual average cost per mile of overhead construction during the
last two years, plus a pro rata amount of such cost for each existing household
passed over 20.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.08 REGULATORY ACTION.
   The performance by the franchisee hereunder is subject to limitations,
restrictions or requirements now existing or which may henceforth be imposed by
law, rule or order of the Federal Communications Commission or other
government, board, commission or authority. The franchisee shall not be deemed
in default of any of the requirements of this subchapter to the extent it acts
in compliance with, or refrains from doing anything prohibited by such law,
rule or order.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.09 CONDITION OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the municipality shall be so located as to
cause minimum feasible interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and
other public ways, roads and places, and to cause minimum feasible interference
with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of
the said streets, alleys or other public ways, roads and places. The franchisee
shall obtain any required permits prior to construction.
   (B)   In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other
surfacing by the franchisee, the franchisee shall, at its sole expense and in a
manner approved by the municipality, replace and restore the same in as good
condition as before said work was commenced.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.10 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The franchisee’s construction and maintenance of the transmission and
distribution system shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal
laws or regulations now in effect or later enacted regulating or affecting the
franchisee’s installation or operation.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.11 COMPANY LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   The franchisee shall save the municipality harmless from all loss sustained
on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever,
resulting solely from the operation of the franchisee in the construction,
operation or maintenance of its system in the municipality. The municipality
shall notify the franchisee within 30 days after the presentation of any claim
or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the municipality on
account of any damages or losses as aforesaid resulting from such operations of
the franchisee. Within 30 days from the enactment date of any subchapter
granting a franchise, the franchisee shall furnish satisfactory evidence in
writing that it has in force general liability insurance of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence, and $1,000,000 in the aggregate, duly issued by an
insurance company or insurance companies authorized to do business in this
Commonwealth.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.12 FRANCHISE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   As compensation for the rights conferred by the grant of a franchise
under this subchapter, including the privilege of engaging in the business of
operating a cable television system in the municipality, the franchisee shall
pay annually to the municipality a fee equal to 5% of gross revenues collected
by the franchisee from charges for basic cable television service and optional
cable television service rendered to subscribers within the municipality. Gross
revenues shall not include charges for or revenues from: any taxes billed to
and collected from subscribers; services other than the transmission and
distribution of television signals; advertising; the leasing of cable channels;
furnishing other communications and non-broadcast television services either
directly or as a carrier for another party; installation charges and fees for
moves, reconnections, inspection, repairs or modifications of any
installations; other customer services for which separate charges are made; or
any other income derived by the franchisee. Stated otherwise, the franchise fee
shall be based upon the franchisee’s gross revenues actually received during
the relevant period, from and relating to bills sent to and paid by township
subscribers, but by way of clarity, excluding therefrom funds received by the
franchisee from non-cable television services, funds paid to the company by
third parties and those payments specifically excluded as gross revenues as set
forth above.
   (B)   Payment of such annual fee shall be made not later than December 30 of
the calendar year in which the fee accrues. Payment shall include the period
from December 15 of the previous calendar year to December 15 of the present
calendar year. Such fee shall be reduced by the amount of any tax, assessment,
fee or other charge imposed, levied, made or collected by municipality upon or
from the franchisee for the privilege of engaging in the business of operating
a cable television system in the municipality.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. The tier of cable television service to
which all users must subscribe in order to obtain cable television service and
for which a charge is made.
      OPTIONAL CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. The furnishing of television
programming for which a per channel charge is made in addition to that for
basic cable television service.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.13 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   Upon finding cable service problems, the subscriber shall report the same to
the franchisee by communicating with its local business office or agent. The
franchisee shall respond to all service complaint and correct malfunctions as
promptly as possible, and in compliance with applicable complaint procedures
adopted by the franchisee.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.14 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Such interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall
occur during periods of minimum use of the system. Upon receipt of a complaint
regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunctions and similar matters,
the franchisee shall promptly investigate such complaint as set forth below.
   (B)   The franchisee shall give a publicly listed telephone which shall be
operated so that complaints and requests for repairs may be received on a 24
hour a day basis. The franchisee shall respond to service complaints within 24
hours of their receipt. Resolution of such service complaints shall be made
promptly.
   (C)   The subscriber shall not be responsible for payment for cable
television service for any period in excess of 24 hours during which service
was not provided; provided that the complaint has been documented prior to the
onset of the 24-hour period.
   (D)   The franchisee shall advise all subscribers of the complaint
procedures and standards of service in writing within 90 days of the date of
the acceptance of the franchise.
   (E)   Companies shall maintain work orders or similar service records of
each complaint, including the date of notification thereof and the nature of
the complaint, and the means in which it was resolved. Such records shall be
maintained for a reasonable period of time and shall be available to township
when subscriber complaints are made directly to the township.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.15 COMPANY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The franchisee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as
shall be reasonably necessary to enable the franchisee to exercise its rights
and perform its obligations under its franchise, and to assure an uninterrupted
service to each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions
hereof or of federal and state laws.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.16 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   For the purpose of enabling municipality to monitor compliance with the
franchise fee requirements of this subchapter, the franchisee shall keep full,
true, accurate and current books of account and records relating to its
operations within municipality and relevant to the franchise fee, for a period
of three years, which books and records shall be made available for inspection
and copying and audit by an authorized representative of the municipality at
all reasonable times.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.17 GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ACCESS.
   (A)   In the event that during the term of any franchise granted hereunder,
the franchisee enters into a franchise agreement with another municipality
which requires the franchisee to establish a government or related non-profit
agency access channel, and in the event that a majority of the franchisee’s
communities in the Upper Bucks County contiguous service area request access to
such channel, the franchisee shall grant access on the same terms and
conditions to the Upper Bucks County municipalities, including the township.
   (B)   (1)   The company shall provide, without charge, a free connection and
basic monthly service to any government building, fire station, police station,
public school building or other building devoted to governmental purpose
abutting a street served by the franchisee’s system. The distribution of the
cable facility inside each such building and the extent thereof shall be the
operation and expense of the owner.
      (2)   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the franchisee shall,
upon request of the township, make available without charge its facilities to
the township throughout the emergency or disaster.
      (3)   Any material breach of any material term or condition of this
agreement or a pattern of breach regarding cable service or quality of service
which extend over a six-month period of time shall be grounds for termination
of this agreement. In the event of the occurrence of one or more of the
foregoing, township shall notify franchisee of its intent to terminate, and
provide the reasons for such termination. The franchisee shall be afforded 60
days to cure the breach or take affirmative action to commence a cure of said
breach. If franchisee fails to take affirmative action towards curing the
breach within said 60-day period, the township shall schedule a public hearing
on its intent to terminate the franchise. The company shall be afforded the due
process rights of notice, representation and the right to be heard at said
public hearing. After such public hearing, the township shall have the right to
terminate the company for just cause if said cause is established, or to impose
a lessor penalty if it so desires.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.18 EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon expiration of the term of the franchise hereby granted, if franchisee
shall not have acquired an extension or renewal thereof and accepted the same,
franchisee shall have the right to enter upon public streets of the township
for purpose of removing the franchisee’s property and installations. The
franchisee shall refill, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made
by it, and shall leave public streets in as good a condition as that prevailing
to the company’s removal of its property.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.19 RATES.
   The franchisee’s rate schedule shall be uniform within reasonable
classification throughout the system, not based on density. The company shall
have the right from time to time throughout the term hereof to offer
promotional inducements with respect to connection, service or other rate
charges. The franchisee shall notify the township prior to any rate increase
promulgated by the franchisee.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 110.20 EFFECT OF NEW LAWS OR REGULATIONS.
   In the event new federal or state laws or regulations impact the operation
of a cable television franchise, the franchisee shall comply with all federal
or states laws or regulations, including those enacted or promulgated after the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-10-1991)
CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
§ 110.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act, P. L. No. 102-385, 106 Stat. 1460 (1992) (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.)
   CABLE OPERATOR. Each cable television operator who is or becomes a party to
a franchise agreement with the franchising authority.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS. Those standards governing customer service which
are prescribed by the FCC existing on the effective date of this subchapter and
as may be hereafter amended and may be enforced by the franchising authority,
including those set forth at 47 C.F.R. § 76.309 as of the effective date of
this subchapter.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. The Township of Springfield, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The agreement between a cable operator and the
franchising authority pursuant to which the cable operator was granted a
franchise to offer cable television services to subscribers.
   SUBSCRIBER. A customer of the cable operator(s) receiving cable television
service within the geographic boundaries of the franchising authority.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 110.36 SUBSCRIBER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of receipt by the cable operator of written notice from
the franchising authority of the franchising authority’s intention to monitor
and enforce the customer service standards adopted by the FCC, the cable
operator shall comply with said standards.
   (B)   The cable operator shall establish clear written procedures for
resolving all subscriber complaints.
   (C)    The cable operator shall provide the subscriber with a written
response to a complaint within ten days of its receipt. Such response shall
include the results of its inquiry into the subject matter of the complaint,
its conclusions based on the inquiry, and its decision in response to the
complaint.
   (D)   If the franchising authority is contacted directly about a subscriber
complaint, it shall notify the cable operator in writing. When the cable
operator receives such notification, the time period for the cable operator to
respond as required above shall commence.
   (E)   Any subscriber who, in good faith, disputes all or part of any bill
sent by the cable operator has the option of withholding the disputed amount,
without a late fee and without the initiation of collection procedures or
disconnection, until the cable operator has investigated the dispute in good
faith and has made a determination that the amount is owed provided that:
      (1)   The subscriber provides a written complaint to the cable operator
in a timely fashion and includes identifying information;
      (2)   The subscriber pays all undisputed charges; and
      (3)   The subscriber cooperates in determining the appropriateness of the
charges in dispute.
   (F)   The cable operator shall maintain monthly subscriber complaint records
for a minimum of 36 months, which records shall contain the date each complaint
is received, the name and address of the affected subscriber, a description of
the complaint, the date of resolution of the complaint and a description of the
resolution. A copy of such records shall be furnished each month to the
franchising authority and otherwise upon request by the franchising authority.
   (G)   Any failure of the cable operator to comply with a requirement of this
subchapter, shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-22-2005) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 NOTICES.
   (A)   The cable operator shall provide written notice to each subscriber
upon initial subscription, with 30 days in advance of any change, and at
intervals not more than one year thereafter to the franchising authority and to
each subscriber, and at any time upon request of subscriber or franchising
authority of the following information as it specifically applies to the
geographical area within the municipal boundaries of the franchising authority:
      (1)   Products and services offered and prices for each;
      (2)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
      (3)   Channel positions and information regarding programming offerings
such that the programming information corresponds to the channel positions;
      (4)   Installation and service maintenance prices and policies;
      (5)   Instructions on how to use the cable service and any converters;
      (6)   Billing and subscriber complaint procedures;
      (7)   Policy and procedures for disconnecting or terminating a
subscriber’s service for cause;
      (8)   The cable operator’s address, telephone number and office hours;
      (9)   The subscriber’s right to obtain a parental control device;
      (10)   Refund and credit policy; and
      (11)   A notice of subscriber privacy rights as required by federal law.
   (B)   As required by applicable law, the cable operator shall notify
subscribers and the franchising authority in writing of any changes in rates,
programming services or channel positions a minimum of 30 days in advance of
such changes.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 110.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Cumulative remedies. Where this subchapter provides alternative
penalties or remedies, they shall be cumulative and the imposition of one
penalty or remedy shall not prevent the franchising authority from invoking any
other penalty or remedy provided herein.
   (B)   In addition to all other rights and remedies provided herein, the
franchising authority shall have all rights and remedies afforded under the
franchise agreement.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person convicted of violating any
provision of §§
110.35 through
110.38, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500 plus costs for each
offense. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense, and each violation with respect to a subscriber shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-22-2005)
CHAPTER 111: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Exemptions
   
111.04   Application for massage establishment license
   
111.05   Application for massagist permit
   
111.06   Issuance of license or permit for a massage establishment
   
111.07   Approval or denial of application
   
111.08   Multiple massage establishments
   
111.09   Posting of license
   
111.10   Register of employees
   
111.11   Revocation or suspension of license or permit
   
111.12   Operating requirements
   
111.13   Persons under the age of 18 prohibited on premises
   
111.14   Hours
   
111.15   Inspection required
   
111.16   Unlawful acts
   
111.17   Sale or transfer or change of location
   
111.18   Name and place of business
   
111.19   Advertisement
   
111.20   Responsibility of owners of property
   
111.21   Transfer of license
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a massagist, who
renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping, by hand, mechanical device or other means, or the
stimulation of the external parts of the human body with the hands or other
instrument.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which provides the services of
massage for compensation, unless operated by a medical practitioner,
chiropractor or professional physical therapist licensed by the Commonwealth.
   MASSAGIST, MASSEUR or MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage as defined in this section.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   PROSTITUTION. Engaging in sexual activity as a business including:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breasts;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Other deviate sexual relations.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school, academy or educational institution which has
for its purpose the teaching of theory, method, profession or work of massage.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA. Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of
any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license required. No person shall operate a massage
establishment unless he or she has a valid massage business license issued by
the township pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and every
separate office or place of business conducted by such person. Existing massage
establishments shall submit applications for licenses within 60 days of
enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Massage permit required. No person shall practice massage as a
massagist, employee or otherwise for compensation within the township, unless
he or she has a valid massagist’s permit issued by the township pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while
engaged in the personal performance of the duties of their respective
professions:
      (1)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths or physical
therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in
the state;
      (2)   Nurses who are registered under the laws of this state; and
      (3)   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of
this state except that this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of
the neck, face, scalp and hair of the customer or client for cosmetic or
beautifying purposes.
   (B)   In any prosecution for violation of this chapter, the foregoing
exemptions shall constitute affirmative defenses and it shall be incumbent upon
the defendant to show that he or she or the place involved are not subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
shift the burden of proof of the violation to the defendant.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application under oath with the township
upon a form provided by the township and pay a nonrefundable annual license
fee, which shall be $100 per year or any part thereof.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A definition of the service to be provided;
      (2)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted;
      (3)   The name and residence address of each applicant (hereinafter all
provisions which refer to applicant include an applicant which may be a
corporation or partnership):
         (a)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name and residence
addresses of each of the officers and directors of said corporation and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, and the
address of the corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment; and
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and residence
addresses of each of the partners including limited partners, and the address
of the partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment.
      (4)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (5)   Proof that the individual applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (6)   Individual or partnership applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes
and hair, and sex;
      (7)   Copy of identification such as driver’s license and Social Security
card;
      (8)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (9)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another township or
state, has had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor,
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or revocation;
      (10)   All criminal convictions for sexual offenses including violations
of §§ 3121-27 and 5901-03 of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code (18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3121
to 3127 and 5901 to 5903), including the date of convictions, nature of the
crimes and place convicted;
      (11)   The name, date of birth and address of each massagist who is or
will be employed in said establishment;
      (12)   The name and address of any massage business or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in division (B)(3) above wherein the business or profession of massage is
carried on;
      (13)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant; and
      (14)   Authorization for the township, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit.
   (C)   The application shall not be accepted until all of the foregoing
information is supplied to the township. The holder of any massage
establishment license shall notify the township of any change in data required
to be furnished by this section within ten days after such change occurs,
including the name, date of birth and address of new employees.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.05 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGIST PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a massagist business permit shall be made to the
township in the same manner as provided above for massage establishment
licenses, accompanied by the nonrefundable massagist permit fee of $75.
   (B)   The application shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massagist
will practice;
      (2)   Name and residence address, and all names, nicknames and aliases by
which the applicant has been known, including the two previous addresses
immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
      (3)   Social Security number, driver’s license, if any, and date of
birth;
      (4)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
      (5)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (6)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
sexual offenses including violations of §§ 3121-27 and 5901-03 of the
Pennsylvania Crimes Code (18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3121 to 3127 and 5901 to 5903),
including the date of convictions, nature of the crimes and place convicted;
      (7)   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the dates
attended and a copy of any diploma, certification or letter of recognition of
attendance;
      (8)   The massage or similar business history and experience (ten years)
prior to the date of application, including, but not limited to, whether or not
such person in previously operating in this or another township or state under
license or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked or suspended
and the reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent
to such action of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (9)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certified physician and that
the applicant is free of communicable disease;
      (10)   Authorization for the township, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
      (11)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and
correct, said declaration being duly dated and signed in the township.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT FOR A MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   The township shall issue a license for a massage establishment after
approval by the Township Manager, Township Zoning Officer or other authorized
township official, if all requirements for a massage establishment or massagist
permit described in this chapter are met unless it finds:
   (A)   The correct permit or license fee has not been tendered to the
township, and, in the case of a check, or bank draft, honored with payment upon
presentation;
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the township’s
building, plumbing, zoning and health regulations;
   (C)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, or any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the manager or other
person principally in charge of the operation of the business, have been
convicted of an offense involving sexual misconduct or convicted of any offense
outside the Commonwealth that would have constituted an offense of sexual
misconduct if committed within the Commonwealth. The township may issue a
license or permit to any person convicted of an offense involving sexual
misconduct if it finds that such conviction occurred at least five years prior
to the date of the application and the applicant has had no subsequent
conviction of any such nature;
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
township in conjunction therewith;
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur or other similar
permit or license lawfully denied, revoked or suspended by the township or any
other state or local agency within five years prior to the date of the
application; and
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any property owner aggrieved by the written decision of a township
employee or other authorized agent of the township pursuant to this subchapter
may appeal the decision by written notification to the Board of Supervisors,
provided that the appeal notification shall be filed within 30 days from the
date of the decision at issue.
   (B)   The property owner and/or person filing an appeal shall be entitled to
a hearing before the Board of Supervisors, or its designee, within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal. Either party, by good cause shown, may extend the time
for a hearing but a decision shall be left to the discretion of the Board of
Supervisors, or its designee. A hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of the Pennsylvania Local Agency Act, being 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 and
751 to 754 and a decision shall be rendered, in writing, within 45 days of the
conclusion of the hearing and all proceedings related thereto. If the Board of
Supervisors or its designee shall fail to render a decision within 45 days
following the conclusion of all proceedings related to the hearing, then the
relief sought by the property owner and/or person filing the appeal shall be
deemed granted. Any property owner and/or person aggrieved by a decision of the
Board of Supervisors or its designee may, within 30 days after such decision of
the Board, file an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of the county.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.08 MULTIPLE MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Should any massage business have more than one location where the business
of massage is pursued, then a permit, stating both the address of the principal
place of business, and of the other location(s) shall be issued by the township
upon the tender of a license fee of $100 per location. Licenses issued for
other locations shall terminate on the same date as that of the principal place
of business, regardless of the date of issuance.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.09 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under this
chapter shall display such license in a prominent place.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.10 REGISTER OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The licensee or person designated by the licensee of a massage
establishment shall maintain a register of all persons employed at any time as
massagists, masseurs or masseuses.
   (B)   Such register shall be available at the massage establishment to
representatives of the township during regular business hours.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Any license or permit issued for a massage establishment or for a massagist
may be revoked or suspended by the township after notice and a hearing, for
good cause, or in any case where any of the provisions of this chapter are
violated or where any employee of the licensee, including a masseur or masseuse
is engaged in any conduct which violates any of the state or local laws or
chapters at licensee’s place of business and the licensee has actual or
constructive knowledge by due diligence.
   (A)   Prior to revoking or suspending a license or permit, the township
shall send notice of its intent to do so to the licensee’s or permit holder’s
last known address.
   (B)   The licensee or permit holder shall have the right to a hearing before
the Township Zoning Officer and shall have the right to be represented by legal
counsel at said hearing.
   (C)   The licensee or permit holder shall have the right to present
witnesses and evidence at the hearing and to cross-examine any witnesses
presented against them.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.12 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   All employees including masseurs and masseuses, shall be clean and wear
clean, non-transparent outer garments, covering the sexual and genital areas.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18 PROHIBITED ON PREMISES.
   No person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall permit any person
under the age of 18 to come or remain on the premises of any massage business
establishment unless such person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 HOURS.
   No massage business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The township or its authorized representatives shall from time to time make
inspection of each massage business establishment for the purposes of
determining that the provisions of this chapter are fully complied with. It
shall be unlawful for any permittee to fail to allow such inspection officer
access to the premises or hinder such officer in any manner.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to
engage in prostitution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to
place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body,
to fondle in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital part of any other
person. Sexual or genital parts shall include the genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to
expose his or her sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any other
person. It shall also be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to
expose the sexual or genital parts, or any portions thereof, of any other
person.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while in the presence of any
other person in a massage establishment, to fail to conceal with a fully opaque
covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage establishment, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about such
massage establishment, any agent, employee or any other person under his or her
control or supervision to perform such acts prohibited in divisions (A), (B),
(C) or (D) above.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 SALE OR TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Upon sale, transfer or relocation of a massage establishment, the license
therefor shall be null and void unless approved as provided in §
111.06; provided, however, that upon the death or incapacity of the licensee or
any co-licensee of the massage establishment, any heir or devisee of a deceased
licensee, may continue the business of the massage establishment for a
reasonable period of time not to exceed 60 days to allow for an orderly
transfer of the license.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.18 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the
massage establishment under a name not specified in his or her license, nor
shall he or she conduct business under any designation or location not
specified in his or her license.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 ADVERTISEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise the offering of massage
services unless the advertised establishment is duly licensed under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow the use of any place,
business, establishment or premises owned, operated, leased or managed by him
or her to be used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license or permit shall be transferable except with the consent of the
township. An application for such transfer shall be in writing and shall be
accompanied by fees prescribed in §§
111.04 and 111.05. The written application for such transfer shall contain the
same information as requested herein for initial application for the license or
permit.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or section of this
chapter shall, upon conviction in summary proceedings before any District
Justice, be fined no more than $300. Each day that a violation occurs or is
continued, shall constitute a separate offense. Upon judgment against any
person by summary conviction, or by proceedings by summons on default of the
fine or penalty imposed and the costs, the defendant may be sentenced and
undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   The imposition of the fines and penalties herein prescribed, shall not
preclude the township from instituting appropriate action by injunction or
otherwise to prevent any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 11-9-2010)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Operations
   
112.05   Records
   
112.06   Inspection
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a permit procedure and set forth
reasonable rules and regulations for the establishment, operation and
maintenance of a junk/salvage yard. More specifically, this chapter is adopted
for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the township;
   (B)   To minimize hazards of all types;
   (C)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and other water bodies; to
assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the groundwater; and
to encourage the wise use and management of the natural and visual resources
throughout the township in order to preserve the integrity, stability and
natural beauty of the community; and
   (D)   To provide enforceable regulations that are compatible with the
township Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the township.
   GARAGE/SERVICE STATION. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained and operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or
body repairs to motor vehicles.
   JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to abandoned barrels or drums, dismantled
or inoperable industrial or commercial equipment or machinery being salvaged
for parts, household appliances, abandoned manufactured/mobile homes and the
following old, scrap, or used items: tires, metal, batteries, plastic, rubber,
pallets, motors, industrial or commercial fixtures, wrecked, dismantled or
disabled motor vehicles or parts thereof.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who buys, sells, salvages, stores, or in any way
deals in junk or owns, leases, operates or maintains a junk/salvage yard within
the township.
   JUNK/SALVAGE YARD. Any establishment, place of business or place which is
maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for maintenance or operation of a motorized vehicle graveyard. An establishment
or place of business which stores or keeps, for a period of 90 days or more,
materials within the meaning of JUNK as defined in this section which had been
derived or created as a result of industrial or commercial activity shall be
deemed to be a junk/salvage yard within the meaning of this chapter. A JUNK/
SALVAGE YARD shall be presumed to have been created when an area of 600 square
feet or more of junk materials are kept or stored at any given place whether
for profit or not. For the purpose of this chapter, properly licensed sanitary
landfills are exempt. JUNK/SALVAGE YARD and salvage yard are synonymous terms.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLES. Any and all types of motor vehicles, including self-
propelled machinery of all kinds, with the exception of useable farm machinery.
   PREMISES. Any parcel of land situated in the township having a separate tax
map parcel number for county assessment purposes.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016)
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall engage or continue to engage in business as a junk
dealer or establish or operate a junk/salvage yard in the township unless they
first obtain a license pursuant to the terms of this chapter and comply with
all provisions in this chapter. The license shall be issued for a term of one
year beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
      (2)   The license fee shall consist of two parts: the initial application
fee for new or expanded facilities which is not returnable in case of refusal
of license and the annual renewal license fee. The dollar amount of these fees
will be set by resolution approved by the Board.
      (3)   The license shall only be renewed provided that all conditions of
this chapter are satisfied.
   (B)   Application for license. The application for a license or any renewal
thereof shall be made and filed, in writing, by the proposed licensee with the
township, on a form supplied by the township. The annual application shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises upon which such business is to be
conducted or upon which such junk/salvage yard is to be established or
operated, including the county tax map parcel number(s);
      (3)   The name of the owner or owners of said premises if other than the
applicant and all other persons with a financial interest in the business;
      (4)   A description of the operation plan and copy of the state
certification inspection report for the previous year;
      (5)   For new applications (not renewals), in addition to the information
cited in subsections (1) through (4) above, a description of the premises upon
which the junk/salvage yard is to be established or operated, showing the
following:
         (a)   A plot plan showing the layout of the junk/salvage yard and the
location of key business operations, including storage areas, parking areas,
fences, berms, buffer yards, combustible fluid storage, point or points of
access from the nearest public road or roads and any other areas pertinent to
the business. This plot may be hand-drawn by the owner or operator and need not
be professionally prepared.
         (b)   The number of buildings to be used, the use of each and their
sizes.
         (c)   Dwellings situated upon adjacent premises and properties.
         (d)   A description of the grade or slope of the premises.
         (e)   Lot line measurements.
   (C)   Issuance of license. The township, upon receipt of an application for
a license under this chapter shall determine whether or not a license shall be
issued or a renewal thereof shall be granted after an examination of the
application and upon inspection of the premises. Such license shall be issued
upon the condition that the same may be summarily revoked in the event that the
licensee is found to have given any false information or in any way
misrepresented any material fact upon which the township or its duly authorized
agent has relied in granting such license.
   (D)   License provisions.
      (1)   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer or operate or
maintain a junk/salvage yard in any place other than the place designated upon
his or her license, nor shall any person operate upon any of the roads or
highways in the township, whether from a vehicle or upon foot, as a scavenger
or an itinerant buyer or itinerant seller of junk. The permitted size of a
junk/salvage yard/salvage yard shall be fixed at the time of license issuance.
      (2)   The location of the junk/salvage yard is considered the address of
the business and the service of papers at that business address is sufficient
for legal notification.
   (E)   Transferability of license. No license issued by the Board shall be
transferable or assignable by agreement, will, or otherwise unless approved by
the Board.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 OPERATIONS.
   Every junk dealer licensed under this chapter shall maintain the licensed
junk/salvage yard and conduct business as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Every junk/salvage yard shall have a suitable fence at least five feet
in height along that portion of the junk/salvage yard which fronts on or abuts
any public highway, street, or right-of-way with a gate of not more than 30
feet wide which can be securely fastened or locked to prevent access to the
same. In addition, a five-foot fence or five-foot berm shall extend in depth
along the sides of the junk/salvage yard from public highway, street or right-
of-way for a depth of at least 150 feet. The gate shall be securely locked
except during business hours. All required open areas between the fence or
inside toe of a berm and lot lines of the premises shall be maintained
continuously in good order, free of weeds and scrub growth, trash and debris.
   (B)   All of the facility’s activities and storage must remain behind the
fence/berm listed above.
   (C)   No junk/salvage yard shall be operated on Sunday, nor between the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the
removal of any wrecked automobile from the public highway.
   (D)   All junk shall be stored and arranged so as to permit access by
firefighting equipment, and to prevent accumulation of stagnant water. Junked
automobiles shall be arranged in rows with at least 15 feet between each row as
a fire lane to permit the movement of fire equipment. No point in the junk/
salvage yard may be more than 150 feet from a fire lane. Junk shall not be
piled to a height of more than eight feet from the ground in a stable
configuration unless in a sturdy racking system.
   (E)   All fluids removed from the vehicles shall be drained above an
impervious pad into sealable containers. Fluids will be removed from all
compromised systems of damaged vehicles within 24 hours after arrival at the
facility in order to avoid ground contamination. Every vehicle brought into a
junk/salvage yard after the effective date of this chapter must have all
systems drained of fluids within ten years or be removed from the lot.
   (F)   The above ground storage of flammable and combustible liquids must
conform to 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 14 and 14A. Underground storage of flammable
and combustible liquids is prohibited
   (G)   All weeds on any junk/salvage yard shall be mowed and shall not be
permitted to go to seed. The facility shall be in compliance with noxious weed
laws.
   (H)   A person 18 years or older must be in charge and on site of the
licensed premises at all times during business hours.
   (I)   No garbage or organic waste shall be permitted to be stored on any
junk/salvage yard.
   (J)   No burning or melting of junk shall be allowed.
   (K)   Paper, rags, plastic materials and rubbish shall not be stored
outside, and shall not be accumulated or remain on any junk/salvage yard
premises for more than one month.
   (L)   Junk/salvage yards shall at all times be maintained in such manner as
to cause no nuisance, nor to cause any menace to health or safety
   (M)   No facility may cause a violation of any health or sanitation law,
ordinance or regulation of any governmental body. The manner of storage and
arrangement of junk, and the drainage facilities of the premises shall be such
as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water upon the premises.
   (N)   Batteries must be placed on pallets, stacked no higher than two high
per pallet and the pallets must be resting on an impervious pad. Pallets should
not be stacked more than two high.
   (O)   To prevent the accumulation of water, tires must be stored on rims or
under cover. If water collects in the tires under cover, the cover will be
considered non-compliant. In aggregate, no more than 5,000 cubic feet of tires
may be stored on the property.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 RECORDS.
   (A)   Permanent records of all junk received or removed from any junk/
salvage yard shall be kept by the junk dealer on the premises, containing the
name and address from whom received or to whom delivered and the date thereof,
and a description of the junk, which shall at all times be open to inspection
by any member of the Board, or its duly authorized agent or any law enforcement
officer.
   (B)   With the exception of vehicles for which a certificate of junk has
actually been issued by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, no junk shall be
removed from any junk/salvage yard, nor broken up, reduced or altered in shape
or form for a period of 48 hours after the same is placed on the junk/salvage
yard premises.
   (C)   All vehicles that are owned by the junk/salvage yard and on the
property for 30 days or more must be clearly marked, with the year the vehicle
was received on the property. Existing vehicles at a junk/salvage yard as of
the effective date of this chapter, shall be clearly marked with the year that
the vehicle was received on the property within one year of the adoption of
this chapter.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016)
§ 112.06 INSPECTION.
   The township shall conduct at least one inspection annually prior to license
renewal to ensure the junk/salvage yard complies with the provisions of this
chapter as it may be amended. Copy of the written report/checklist generated by
the inspection shall be given to the owner and a copy placed on file in the
township office for public inspection.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a Magisterial
District Judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $500 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Every day that a
violation continues may constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The township may refuse to renew the license of any owner or operator
who fails to maintain a junk/salvage yard in accordance with township
regulations, or fails to maintain a junk/salvage yard so as to conform to the
plan under which the license was issued.
   (C)   The township may take any appropriate action at law or equity, civil
or criminal, to enforce the provisions of this chapter and recover the fees,
expenses and costs associated with the enforcement. This chapter shall in no
way restrict any remedies, including but not limited to injunctive remedies,
otherwise available and provided by law.
(Ord. 183, passed 8-23-2016)
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exemptions
   
113.03   Registration required
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural; the plural shall include the singular; and
the masculine shall in the feminine and the neuter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   SOLICITOR, PEDDLER or TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS.
      (1)   Engaging in peddling, soliciting, or taking orders, either by
sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground, or from house to house, within the township.
      (2)   Selling, soliciting, or taking orders for any goods, wares, or
merchandise, from a fixed location within the township, on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but not be limited to, such activities conducted at the
time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for yearly
holidays.
§ 113.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those activities regulated
under
Chapter 154, § 404.A.(2)—Accessory Agricultural Sales.
§ 113.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in solicitation, peddling or transient retail
business within the township without first having registered with the Police
Department. Such registration shall included, but not be limited to, providing
the name(s) of the company, name(s) of all individuals who shall be
participating, the nature of the business, the name of the street(s) of the
township where the activity shall take place and the exact days when the
activity shall take place.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, who or which has violated or permitted the violation of the
provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before
a district justice in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary
offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $1,000, plus costs and, in default of payment of
said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day
that a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   FLOODPLAINS
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
154.   ZONING ORDINANCE
      
155.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Pennsylvania Construction Code
   
150.01   Adopted by reference
House Numbering
   
150.15   Definition
   
150.16   Building numbering system adopted
   
150.17   Responsibility in numbering buildings
   
150.18   Requirements for numbers
Sellers to Display Final Approved Subdivision Plans
   
150.30   Applicability
   
150.31   Intent
   
150.32   Disclosure requirements; new construction
   
150.33   Residential disclosure statement; new construction
   
150.34   Plan of lot
   
150.99   Penalty
PENNSYLVANIA CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The township adopts the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999
being 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq., as well as any amendments that may be
enacted from time to time and regulations adopted pursuant to the Act. The Act
designates a new building code to replace the township’s existing code,
provides for standards for construction, establishes a Board of Appeals for
disputes arising under the code and allows the municipality to provide for
enforcement of the code in a number of ways to be adopted from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 6-8-2004)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 150.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used as a dwelling or place
of business or industry, and shall include any public building or any structure
built as a place of worship.
(Ord. 74, passed 8-22-1989)
§ 150.16 BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Township Supervisors hereby endorse a numbering system for all of
the township and assign numbers to all lots and buildings located in the
township.
   (B)   Such numbers shall be assigned according to the following system.
      (1)   Upon all streets extending east and west, the numbering system
shall commence at the westwardly-most border of the township and shall increase
eastwardly. The allotment of numbers shall be as nearly as practicable, one
number for every 25 feet. The odd numbers shall be on the north side of the
streets and the even numbers on the south side of the streets.
      (2)   Upon all streets extending north and south, the numbering system
shall commence at the southwardly-most border of the township and shall
increase northwardly. The allotment of numbers shall be made as nearly as
practicable, one number for every 25 feet. The odd numbers shall be on the east
side of the streets and the even numbers shall be on the west side of the
streets.
      (3)   All unnamed alleys and rights-of-way shall be named with a “private
road” distinction and shall be assigned numbers in conformity with the
foregoing sections.
(Ord. 74, passed 8-22-1989)
§ 150.17 RESPONSIBILITY IN NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   Numbers shall be assigned to buildings in the township as soon as possible
after the adoption of this subchapter, and the Township Supervisors shall
immediately thereafter designate a person to send to the owner, trustee,
lessee, agent or occupant of every lot upon which a building is located, a
notice of the number assigned to such building, directing that such number be
affixed to such building or elsewhere upon the property in the manner
prescribed by the subchapter, within 30 days of such notice. Any person who
disregards or fails to comply with such notice, within the time limit stated
herein, shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 74, passed 8-22-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 REQUIREMENTS FOR NUMBERS.
   The number shall be placed on the mailbox and house, structure or other
conspicuous place, the same number to be of paint, metal or enamel, and at
least four inches in height, the color of the numbers to be in contrast to the
immediate background, and shall be placed so as to be in full view from the
opposite side of the street, in accordance with the following design.
   (A)   For those buildings or structures 50 feet or less from the road, the
numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous place horizontally on or near the
front door.
   (B)   For those buildings or structures more than 50 feet from the road, the
numbers, as described above, shall be placed at the end of each road or
driveway serving such buildings or structures, and at the entrance to any
private lane or driveway off a main road or driveway serving any building or
structure upon a permanent standard, base or support.
   (C)   Numbers shall not be displayed in the form of script or roman
numerals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to cover any house number with any sign, drapery
or other obstruction tending to conceal such number and all old numbers shall
be removed from any house, building or other structure when a new number has
been assigned, and when so directed by the Township Code Enforcement Officer.
The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to require the numbering and
renumbering of any house, building or other structure in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 74, passed 8-22-1989) Penalty, see §
150.99
SELLERS TO DISPLAY FINAL APPROVED SUBDIVISION PLANS
§ 150.30 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all developers, owners
and/or owner’s agents (hereinafter referred to as the “seller”) who are selling
a vacant subdivided residential lot or a newly constructed home located within
the boundaries of the township (hereinafter referred to as “new residential
property”) to a member of the general public (hereinafter referred to as the
“prospective buyer”).
(Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 150.31 INTENT.
   These requirements are intended to ensure that before prospective buyers
enter into an agreement of sale on a property they are informed about
limitations, easements and restrictions on that property; the general nature of
the subdivision and/or land development in which the property is located; and
potential development on abutting properties.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 150.32 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS; NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Before accepting a sales agreement for any new residential property,
the seller shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer’s signature on a
disclosure statement in the same form as the disclosure statement included
herein, verifying that the seller has provided, shown and explained all of the
information that is required by this subchapter.
   (B)   The seller of any new residential property shall prominently display
the approved subdivision and/or land development plans in the office or other
place where property sales are transacted, so that they are plainly visible to
all potential buyers of the new residential property. The approved subdivision
and/or land development plans shall include the record plan and all other
associated plans approved with the record plan. The seller must inform the
buyer that a copy of the plan may be seen at the Springfield Township Building.
   (C)   The seller shall present to the buyer a copy of the proposed grading
plan of the lot depicting the street upon which the residence will front, the
building envelope with front, rear and side yards shown, and the proposed first
floor elevation of the property.
   (D)   The information listed below shall be clearly shown or noted on the
approved plans and summarized in text narrative, and a copy of the plans and
text narrative shall be given to the potential home buyer concurrently with
buyer’s signing of the disclosure statement. The approved plans and text
narrative shall show and describe the following:
      (1)   Common areas such as park lands, streets and open space which are
part of the subdivision or adjacent to the lot and/or building being sold;
      (2)   All lot lines within the development;
      (3)   All uses permitted within the development by the township’s current
Zoning Ordinance, including accessory uses, and all limitations, easements,
deed restrictions and other restrictions which affect the development of the
lots and use thereof;
      (4)   Membership in a homeowner’s association, if required. A copy of the
homeowner’s association or condominium agreement, including the declaration of
covenants, conditions and restrictions, shall be provided to the buyer
(concurrently with buyer’s signing of the disclosure statement);
      (5)   All current dimensional requirements of the township for the
primary uses on each lot, such as setback requirements, building coverage,
impervious coverage and height limitations;
      (6)   All current dimensional requirements of the township for the
accessory uses permitted on each lot, such as size, setback requirements and
height limitations;
      (7)   The location of all easements in the development and a description
of the terms and uses of the easements including any underground pipe (i.e.,
sanitary, water, gaslines); showing which lots are affected by the easements
and the limitations imposed on those lots, together with the applicable
sections of the Zoning Ordinance;
      (8)   The location of all areas within the development and on each lot
which are classified as wetlands, under the currently used definition, with a
reference to federal, state and local requirements which govern wetlands and
the limitation it imposes on each lot and on the development. Location of
wetlands shall be highlighted by crosshatching all affected areas on the plan,
together with the applicable sections of the Zoning Ordinance;
      (9)   The location within the development and on each lot of floodplain
areas, as defined by the township’s ordinances, the requirements which govern
floodplains and the limitations imposed on floodplain areas of individual lots
and on the development as a whole, together with the applicable sections of the
Zoning Ordinance;
      (10)   The location of stormwater drainage facilities, including
detention/retention basins; the paths of stormwater runoff; a reference to
township requirements which govern stormwater facilities; and the ownership and
maintenance responsibility for such facilities;
      (11)   The present zoning of the development and of land which abuts the
development, and a description of permitted uses and dimensional requirements
for each contiguous zoning district;
      (12)   The date of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance the particular plan is being developed under shall be
provided to prospective buyer. If the plan is developed by stipulation or court
order, a copy of the stipulation or court order shall be provided to every
prospective buyer;
      (13)   The disclosure of any known environmental surveys, studies or
reports done on the property shown in the record plan. The reports must be made
available to the buyer for review; and
      (14)   The disclosure of any known carbonate bedrock formations within
the development. Reports regarding carbonate geology studies must be made
available to the buyer for review.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 150.33 RESIDENTIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT; NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Prior to accepting a sales agreement for a new residential property,
the seller shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer’s signature on a
disclosure statement in substantially the same form as that which follows.
Within five days of execution of a sales agreement by the buyer and the seller,
the seller shall provide to the Code Enforcement Officer of the township a
signed copy of the disclosure statement. In addition, the seller shall provide
the buyer with a copy of the disclosure statement at time of signing, and
seller shall maintain an original of the signed disclosure on file for a period
of ten years.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter that information regarding the
nature of the property to be sold be conveyed to the consumer purchasing the
property for residential purposes. Any attempt to by-pass the intent of the
subchapter by transfer of title to a party or entity who does not intend to
make such use of the property will be considered a violation of this subchapter
and shall not exempt the seller from complying with its terms when the property
is sold on a retail basis.
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
This Document Is for Your Protection. Read it Carefully Before Signing.
Springfield Township Ord. 138 requires that the sellers of a newly constructed
home or a vacant subdivided residential lot provide potential buyers with
certain specific information regarding the property to be sold prior to the
signing of an agreement of sale. This information is intended to benefit the
buyer by clearly delineating the nature of the property in question, including
any restrictions or conditions that may affect its desirability, suitability
and/or current or future value.
The checklist below is required by the township to make certain that you have
been shown the information required by the ordinance. It is your obligation to
evaluate that information and to consider its implications relative to your
situation. The importance of understanding the material presented to you cannot
be overstressed.
If you have any questions, you should seek the assistance of an unbiased
professional before signing any sales agreement.
Fill in the following information:
Print Name of Buyer(s):_______________________________   Address:
_______________________________
Print Name of Buyer(s):_______________________________    Address:
_______________________________
Name of Developer:__________________________________   Address:
_______________________________
Name of Subdivision:_________________________________   Lot Number
(s)__________________________
Tax Map Parcel Number(s):
____________________________________________________________________
 
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Please initial next to each of the following to verify that information about each
of the following was presented and explained fully with regard to the property you
are buying before an agreement of sale was accepted by the seller:
Property Description
1. The property being considered is ____________ square feet (____________ acres)
in size.
2. All lot lines of the property have been explained.
Land Use and Building Restrictions
3. This lot is subject to the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance:
   Zoning Ordinance:__________________________________   Dated:
_______________________________
   Subdivision Ordinance:_______________________________   Dated:
_______________________________
   Subdivision Plan was approved on ____________ and recorded at Book
____________, Page ____________ in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds.
   If plan is developed by Stipulation or Court Order, a copy of same including
all amendments shall also be included in its entirety.
4. The property is located in the ____________ Zoning District. A statement of all
uses presently permitted within the
development by the Zoning Ordinance is attached.
5. The property is subject to the following dimensional requirements:
                        Permitted            As Built
   Front Yard               __________ feet      __________feet
   Rear Yard               __________ feet      __________ feet
   Side Yard               __________ feet      __________ feet
   Building Coverage            __________ sq. feet      __________ sq. feet
   Impervious Surface Coverage*      __________ sq. feet      __________ sq. feet
   Building Height            __________ feet      __________ feet
   * Note: Impervious surface includes homes, driveways, accessory structures,
decks, pools and stone or graveled areas.
   Additional building coverage remaining for garage, sheds, greenhouse and any
other buildings __________ sq. feet.
   Additional impervious surface remaining for patios, decks, swimming pool,
tennis, basketball or other courts, and the like __________ sq. feet.
 
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
6. All current dimensional requirements for the accessory uses (such as decks,
pools, sheds and the like) permitted on
each lot, such as size, setback requirements, and height limitations; which are
as follows:
   Side yard required for accessory uses: __________________________________
   Rear yard required for accessory uses: __________________________________
   Front yard required for accessory uses: __________________________________
7. I/We are aware that the existing zoning regulations within the township are
subject to change.
Plan Requirements and Deed Restrictions
8. I have reviewed the subdivision plan for this development and it has been
explained to me by agents of seller.
Buffer yards and other restrictions affecting the property have been fully
explained.
9. All lot lines within the development have been explained.
10. The subject property (IS/IS NOT) subject to deed restrictions, limitations,
easements and other restrictions which
affect development of the lots. If the property is subject to any deed
restrictions, limitations, easements or other
restrictions, a copy of the document imposing the restrictions has been
provided.
11. The property is subject to the following easements:
   Sanitary Water: _______________   Sewer: _______________________         Gas:
____________
   Electric: _____________________   Telephone:
____________________         Cable: __________
   Drainage: ____________________   Municipal: ____________________
   Conservation Easement or other restriction: (Please Describe)
______________________________________________________________________
   ______________________________________________________________________
   ______________________________________________________________________
   The location of all easements through the development describing the terms
and uses of the easements have been explained to me/us. A copy of the applicable
sections of the township’s ordinances was provided.
12. Membership in a homeowner’s association/condominium association, (IS/IS NOT)
required. A copy of the
homeowner’s association or condominium documents, including the declaration of
condominium or declaration of
covenants, conditions and restrictions as applicable has been provided.
13. The location of stormwater drainage facilities, including detention/
retention basins, the paths of stormwater
runoff, a reference to township requirements which govern stormwater facilities
have been pointed out to me/us.
The ownership and maintenance responsibilities for same have been explained. A
copy of the applicable sections
of the Zoning Ordinance was provided.
14. The buyer is aware of the existence and location of any on-lot wells and
septic systems and the maintenance
requirements of these particular systems.
 
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Natural Resource Restrictions
15. The property being considered has _____________ square feet of resource
protected areas which equal
_____________% of the total lot. The property includes:
      _____________ square feet of wetlands which equals _____________% of the total
lot.
      _____________ square feet of floodplains which equals _____________% of the
total lot.
      _____________ square feet of steep slopes which equals _____________% of the
total lot.
16. There ARE/ARE NOT locations within the development which are classified as
wetlands, floodplains, steep slopes
or woodlands as defined in the Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance or with
reference to a federal, state or
other requirement. The limitations imposed on each lot and on the development with
respect to wetlands, flood-
plains, woodlands and steep slopes have been explained. Location of wetlands,
floodplains, woodlands and steep
slopes shall be highlighted by cross hatching all affected areas on the plan. A copy
of the applicable section of the
township’s ordinances has been provided.
17. I/We understand that substantial use restrictions apply to resource-protected
areas and that these restrictions will
be enforced by the appropriate local, state and federal agencies. I/we understand
that substantial penalties exist for
the violations of those restrictions.
18. There ARE/ARE NOT locations within the development which contain carbonate
bedrock formations. The
limitations imposed on each lot and on the development with respect to carbonate
bedrock formations have been
explained. Locations of bedrock formations have been explained.
Adjoining Uses and Surrounding Impacts
19. The existing zoning classification of the property adjacent to the development
is:
   Land to North: __________________________________
   Land to South: __________________________________
   Land to East: __________________________________
   Land to West: __________________________________
20. The existing land uses of the property adjacent to the development is:
   Land to North: __________________________________
   Land to South: __________________________________
   Land to East: __________________________________
   Land to West: __________________________________
21. The subject property (IS/IS NOT) located adjacent to public or private common
areas, such as park lands, streets,
stub streets and open space, which are part of the subdivision or adjacent to the
lot and/or building being sold.
22. The buyer is aware that farming and other agricultural activities are conducted
on properties near the prospective
property.
 
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
Springfield Township
Residential Disclosure Statement
New Construction
23. The buyer understands that farming and agricultural activities involve aspects
which may be objectionable and
even injurious but which are protected under Pennsylvania law. These include:
   (A)   Operation of large pieces of equipment including tractors, combines and the
like which generate noise, dust and fumes.
   (B)   The hours of operation of such equipment will include night operation and
early morning operation which is permitted as a matter of right.
   (C)   The collection and spreading of animal waste which generate odors, may
attract flies and have other objectionable impact.
   (D)   Use of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers.
24. The buyer understands that this property (DOES/DOES NOT) have a public water line
in an adjoining street and
that if there is a public water line and the property is not currently served by
public water, any construction of
additional bedrooms or failure of the existing well would necessitate connection to
public water.
Buyer __________________________________   Seller/Authorized Agent
__________________________________
Buyer __________________________________   Seller/Authorized Agent
__________________________________
Date ___________________________________   Date __________________________________
 
(Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007)
§ 150.34 PLAN OF LOT.
   The developers of a subdivision wherein the developer is building and
selling newly constructed residences shall present to a prospective buyer
before the agreement of sale for such property is signed, an individual plan of
the lot involved, showing the street upon which the building will front and the
building envelope with rear front and side yard shown and the currently
approved grading plan for the lot.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, agent or corporation who or which shall
violate any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.18 shall, upon conviction in a District Justice Court, be sentenced to pay
a fine of not more than $600, nor less than $300. Each week’s continuance of a
violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 shall constitute a separate offense. All fines collected for the
violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 shall be paid over to the township.
   (C)   Should any person be found guilty of violating §§
150.30 through
150.34 in a summary proceeding before a District Justice, that person shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of up to $1,000 for each offense, or undergo
imprisonment for up to 30 days.
(Ord. 74, passed 8-22-1989; Ord. 138, passed 5-8-2007)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Intent
   
151.003   Applicability
   
151.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.005   Severability
   
151.006   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.007   Definitions
Administration
   
151.020   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.021   Permits required
   
151.022   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
151.024   Review by County Conservation District
   
151.025   Review of application by others
   
151.026   Changes
   
151.027   Placards
   
151.028   Start of construction
   
151.029   Fees
   
151.030   Enforcement
   
151.031   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
151.045   Identification
   
151.046   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
151.047   Changes in identification of areas
   
151.048   Boundary disputes
   
151.049   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
151.060   General
   
151.061   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
151.062   Design and construction standards
   
151.063   Development which may endanger human life
   
151.064   Special requirements for subdivisions and land developments
   
151.065   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
151.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Prohibited Activities
   
151.080   Prohibited activities
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
151.095   Existing structures
   
151.096   Improvements
Variances
   
151.110   General
   
151.111   Variance procedure and conditions
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the Commonwealth has, by the passage of the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act of 1978 being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors of the township does hereby
order as follows.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing inappropriate development in areas
subject to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development within identified floodplain areas anywhere in the township unless
a floodplain permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A floodplain permit shall not be required for minor repairs to
existing buildings or structures.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, provisions of any other
ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those
provisions are more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the
provisions of this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.005 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.006 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall not be designed or used for human
habitation.
   A AREA/DISTRICT. An area of special flood hazard identified as an A Zone on
the FIRM subject to a 1% chance of flooding in any year for which base flood
elevations have not been provided.
   A ZONE/AE ZONE. Areas of special flood hazard identified on the FIRM.
   AE AREA/DISTRICT. An area of special flood hazard identified as an AE Zone
on the FIRM subject to a 1% chance of flooding in any year for which base flood
elevations have been provided.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-year flood or 1% annual chance flood).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the FEMA flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) for Zone AE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the township.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING STRUCTURE may also be referred to as
“existing construction”.
   EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. Person appointed by the Board of Supervisors to
administer and enforce this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA (FLOODPLAIN). A relatively flat or low land area which is
subject to partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream,
river or watercourse; and any area subject to the unusual and rapid
accumulation of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)
(5), (c)(4), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation
until such times as that documentation is provided.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with a historic preservation program that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. This term is an umbrella term that includes all
of the areas within which the community has selected to enforce floodplain
regulations. It will always include the area identified as the special flood
hazard area on the flood insurance rate maps and flood insurance study, and
additional areas identified by the township. Refer §§
151.045 and 151.046 for the specifics on what areas the township has included
in the identified floodplain area.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after March 16, 2015 and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures started after September 1, 1977 and on or before March 16, 2015 is
subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided
the start of construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after the township’s initial flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) dated September 1, 1977, whichever is later, and, as such, would be
required to be compliant with the regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before the township’s initial flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) dated September 1,1977, and, as such, would not be required to be
compliant with the regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A or AE.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include any project
for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions.
      (2)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement as defined in this chapter, must comply
with all chapter requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific chapter
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the UCC adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)(5),  (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall annually appoint the Township Zoning
Officer as the Floodplain Administrator to administer and enforce this chapter
and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Assistant Zoning
Officer.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.021 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain permit shall be required before any construction or development
is undertaken within any identified floodplain area in the township.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq.); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (32 P.S. §§ 693.1
et seq.); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.); and
the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, (33 U.S.C. § 1344). No permit shall be issued
until this determination has been made.
   (C)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board of Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity all records
associated with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
finished construction elevation data, permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of 34 Pa
Code and the most recent edition of the International Building Code (IBC) and
the most recent edition of the International Residential Code (IRC) or latest
revisions thereof.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to FEMA concerning community participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (I)   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in the
floodplain regulations as the Floodplain Administrator/Manager.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.023 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a floodplain permit shall be made, in writing, to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the township. Such
application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location including address and tax map parcel number;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for floodplain
permits shall provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed floodplain permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Existing and proposed topographic contour lines;
         (c)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
         (d)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures and
other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and land development;
         (e)   Location of all existing streets, drives and other accessways;
and
         (f)   Location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   Elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC, or as adopted by the Commonwealth.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (b)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood and Floodway Area (see §
151.046(A)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation at any point;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect on any proposed development
within an AE Area/District (special flood hazard area designated on the
township’s FIRM (flood insurance rate map) where base flood elevations have
been established) without floodway (refer to §
151.046(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation by more than one foot at any point
within the community;
         (d)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood; and
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure or the development.
         (e)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
151.062(F) and 151.063, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
151.062(F) and 151.063 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or
otherwise maintained on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
151.063 during a base flood.
         (f)   The appropriate component of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (g)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, to
implement and maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.024 REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development where earth disturbance is 1,000 square feet or greater in any
identified floodplain area to be considered for approval shall be submitted by
the applicant to the County Conservation District for review and comment prior
to the issuance of a floodplain permit. Requirements of the County Conservation
District shall be incorporated by the applicant into the proposed plan. Prior
to the issuance of a floodplain permit by the township, a letter of adequacy
must be received from County Conservation District, where applicable.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.025 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
or individuals (e.g., Township Engineer, Planning Commission and the like) for
review and comment.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.026 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a floodplain permit by the Floodplain Administrator,
no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for
any such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.027 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the floodplain permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall
issue a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time
construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
floodplain permit, the date of its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.028 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction and/or development shall begin
within 180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12
months after the date of issuance of the floodplain permit, or the permit shall
expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   The actual start of construction means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affect the external dimensions of the building.
   (C)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request, and the original
permit is compliant with the chapter and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.029 FEES.
   Applicants for a floodplain permit shall, at the time of making application,
pay to the Floodplain Administrator for township use, a fee and escrow in
accordance with a fee schedule adopted by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors upon enactment of this chapter, or as such schedule may be amended
by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.030 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notices. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
municipal representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or
of any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Notice content. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed a period of 30 days, for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter
may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator, and include the required fee and escrow set forth by the current
township fee schedule, as adopted and amended by the Board of Supervisors from
time to time.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider
the appeal in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.) and any other local ordinances.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief there from by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this
Commonwealth including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, being 32
P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.045 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be:
      (1)   Any areas of the township, classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the flood insurance study (FIS) and the accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRMs) dated March 16, 2015 and issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the flood insurance study; and
      (2)   For areas abutting streams and watercourses where the 100-year
floodplain (1% annual chance flood) has not been delineated by a flood
insurance study, the applicant shall submit a floodplain identification study.
The study prepared by a registered professional engineer expert in the
preparation of hydrologic and hydraulic studies shall be used to delineate the
100-year floodplain. The floodplain study shall be subject to the review and
approval of the township. All areas inundated by the 100-year flood shall be
included in the floodplain area.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the township and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.046 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas/districts:
   (A)   The Floodway Area/District identified as floodway in the FIS that
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the base flood water surface elevation by more than one foot at any
point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those special flood
hazard areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS and FIRM.
      (1)   Within any Floodway Area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis,
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice, that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall
be allowed, unless a permit is obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (B)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which base flood
elevations have been provided.
   (C)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1% annual chance
flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state or other acceptable source shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the
elevation shall be determined by hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
registered professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who
shall certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently
accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall
be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
township.
   (D)   For areas adjoining streams, ponds and lakes not included in the FIS
prepared by FEMA, the municipality will require the applicant to determine the
elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others
of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods
used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies,
analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
allow a thorough technical review by the township. All areas inundated by the
100-year flood shall be included in the floodplain area.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Board of
Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change
within the AE Area/District or A Area/District, approval must be obtained from
FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than six months after
the date such information becomes available, FEMA shall be notified of the
changes by submission of technical or scientific data. Refer to §
151.060(B) for situations where FEMA notification is required.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.048 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Zoning
Hearing Board. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.049 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes that meet or exceed those in 44 C.F.R.
Part 60.3.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation of
any watercourse included in the FIS.
   (B)   When the township proposes to permit the following encroachments by
variance.
      (1)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevation
within the floodway; or
      (2)   Alteration or relocation of a stream including, but not limited to,
installing culverts and bridges within identified floodplain areas determined
pursuant to §§
151.046(B) and (C), the applicant shall (as per 44 C.F.R. Part 65.12):
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur;
         (b)   Upon receipt of the Administrator’s conditional approval of map
change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances,
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition; and
         (c)   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, the township
shall provide as-built certification, FEMA will initiate a final map revision
upon receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Part 67.
   (C)   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Within any identified floodplain area (refer to §
151.046), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse within an AE
or A Area/District except for roads, driveways and utilities where a permit is
obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.061 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the
regulatory flood elevation (one and one-half feet above base flood elevation).
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
151.046(C).
      (3)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa Code (Chapters 401-405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement of a
nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation, or be designed and
constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
151.046(C).
      (3)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with an equivalent standard.
All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a
statement certified by a registered professional engineer or architect which
states that the proposed design and methods of construction are in conformance
with the above referenced standards.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa Code (Chapters 401-405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term FULLY
ENCLOSED SPACE also includes crawl spaces but does not include basements.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, must comply with all chapter requirements that do not preclude a
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a
specific requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National
Register of Historic Place or the State Inventory of Historic Places must be
obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation
Officer. Any exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, if they comply with the
following minimum requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity;
      (2)   Area of the building footprint shall not exceed 600 square feet;
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential;
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to at least one
and one-half feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited;
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited; and
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.062 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building perimeter
from all points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to three horizontal feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes, are submitted to, and approved
by the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code 2009 Edition, or the most recent revision thereof, shall
be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life and not
listed in §
151.063, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water- resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water- resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve any area below the base
flood elevation and shall be fed from above the base flood elevation.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from
the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained in 34 Pa Code (Chapters 401-405), as amended and not
limited to the following provisions, shall apply to the above and other
sections of this chapter, to the extent that they are more restrictive and
supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612 and 3402; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109 and R323.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.063 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act being 32
P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of
Community and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or
substantially improved structure which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances listed in division (B) below;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances; shall be prohibited in an identified floodplain area.
No variance shall be granted.
   (B)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Ammonia;
      (3)   Benzene;
      (4)   Calcium carbide;
      (5)   Carbon disulfide;
      (6)   Celluloid;
      (7)   Chlorine;
      (8)   Hydrochloric acid;
      (9)   Hydrocyanic acid;
      (10)   Magnesium;
      (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
      (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
      (13)   Phosphorus;
      (14)   Potassium;
      (15)   Sodium;
      (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
      (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides);
and
      (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.064 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENTS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals that are partially or
wholly located within an identified Floodplain A Area/District where base flood
elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood elevations and
floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional
engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional letter of map revision
or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be
the responsibility of the applicant. No building or zoning permits shall be
issued prior to receipt of FEMA approval for map revision.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.065 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any Floodway Area/District, manufactured homes shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Within any identified floodplain area, manufactured homes shall be
prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of
any watercourse.
   (C)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above the base flood elevation;
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement; and
      (4)   Have all ductwork and utilities including HVAC/heat pump elevated
to the regulatory flood elevation.
   (D)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the installation instructions provided by the manufacturer. Where the applicant
cannot provide the above information, the requirements of Appendix E of the
2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for Manufactured Housing, 1984
Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall apply as well as 34 Pa Code
Chapters 401-405.
   (E)   Where the manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or
were not established for the units(s) proposed installation, consideration
shall be given to the installation requirements of the 2009 IBC, the 2009 IRC,
or the most recent revisions thereto and the 34 Pa Code, as amended, where
appropriate and applicable.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.066 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
    Recreational vehicles in Zones A and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
§ 151.080 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following
activities shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities, or the
construction, enlargement or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision or substantial improvement to an existing
manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision; and
   (C)   No variance shall be granted for the structures and activities
prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.095 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures.
   (B)   However, when an improvement is made to any existing structure, the
provisions of §
151.096 shall apply.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.096 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
   (A)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa
Code, as amended, and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC;
   (C)   Within any Floodway Area/District (refer to §
151.046), no new construction or development shall be allowed, unless the
appropriate permit is obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office;
   (D)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, in an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible; and
   (E)   No expansion or enlargement of any existing structure shall be allowed
within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
VARIANCES
§ 151.110 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
township may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURE AND CONDITIONS.
   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
151.031 and the following.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the BFE. In
A Districts, BFEs are determined using the methodology in §
151.046(C).
   (B)   No variance shall be granted for prohibited activities (§
151.080) or to development which may endanger human life (§
151.063).
   (C)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   (D)   In granting any variance, the Zoning Hearing Board shall attach
whatever reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order
to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives
of this chapter.
   (E)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall consider,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   There is good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant;
      (3)   (a)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Not result in any additional threats to the public safety or
extraordinary public expense;
            2.   Nor create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public,
or conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and
regulations;
            3.   The granting of a variance is consistent with requirements of
§ 910.2, Zoning Hearing Board’s Functions, Variances, of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.), Act of 1968, P.K. 805,
No. 247 as amended and § 1009A. of the Township Zoning Ordinance.
         (b)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
            1.   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
            2.   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   (F)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the township. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon
conviction shall pay a fine to the township of not less than $25 nor more than
$600, plus costs of prosecution. Each day that the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other
actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the
violation or noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a
reasonable time. Any development initiated or any structure or building
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated, in noncompliance
with this chapter may be declared by the Board of Supervisors to be a public
nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-24-2015)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Stormwater Management Ordinance
§ 152.01 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
   The Stormwater Management Ordinance is set forth as Appendix A of this
Chapter 152.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
APPENDIX A: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
Stormwater Management
Article I.
General Provisions
   
§ 101   Statement of Findings
   
§ 102   Purpose
   
§ 103   Statutory Authority
   
§ 104   Applicability
   
§ 105   Exemptions
   
§ 106   Waivers
   
§ 107   Erroneous Permit
   
§ 108   Repealer
   
§ 109   Severability
   
§ 110   Compatibility with Other Ordinance Requirements
Article II.
Definitions
Article III.
Stormwater Management
   
§ 301   General Requirements for Stormwater Management
   
§ 302   Stormwater Management Districts – Peak Rate Control
   
§ 303   Volume Controls
   
§ 304   Riparian Buffers
   
§ 305   Non-structure Project Design
   
§ 306   Additional Requirements Applicable to Infiltration Oriented Stormwater
Management Systems
   
§ 307   Stream Bank Erosion Requirements
   
§ 308   Design Criteria for Stormwater Management Facilities and Best
Management Practices
   
§ 309   Calculation Methodology
   
§ 310   Standards During Land Disturbance
   
§ 311   Water Quality Requirements After Regulated Earth Disturbance Activities
Are Complete
Article IV.
Stormwater Management (SWM) Site Plan Requirements
   
§ 401   General Requirements
   
§ 402   SWM Site Plan Preparation
   
§ 403   Plan Submission
   
§ 404   Plan Review
   
§ 405   Retention of Plans at Project Site
   
§ 406   Adherence to Approved Plan
   
§ 407   Modification of Plans
   
§ 408   Resubmission of Disapproved SWM Site Plans
   
§ 409   Authorization to Construct and Term of Validity
   
§ 410   As-Built Plans, Completion Certificate, and Final Inspection
   
§ 411   Occupancy Permit
Article V.
Inspections
   
§ 501   Schedule of Inspections
   
§ 502   Right of Entry
Article VI.
Fees and Expenses
   
§ 601   SWM Site Plan Review Fee
   
§ 602   Expenses Covered by Fees
   
§ 603   Itemization of Costs
Article VII.
Maintenance Responsibilities
   
§ 701   Performance Guarantee
   
§ 702   Maintenance Responsibilities
   
§ 703   Operation and Maintenance Agreements
   
§ 704   Stormwater Management Easements
   
§ 705   Municipal Stormwater Maintenance Fund
Article VIII.
Prohibitions
   
§ 801   Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
§ 802   Roof Drains and Sump Pumps
   
§ 803   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Article IX.
Enforcements and Penalties
   
§ 901   Right-of-Entry
   
§ 902   Inspection
   
§ 903   Enforcement
   
§ 904   Suspension and Revocation
   
§ 905   Penalties
   
§ 906   Public Nuisance
   
§ 907   Appeals
   
Appendix A: Operation and Maintenance Agreement (O&M)
   
Appendix B: Release Rate District Map
   
Appendix C: Simplified Method of Stormwater Management Procedures for Small
Residential Projects
   
Appendix D: Storm Sewer Bedding/Backfill Requirements
   
Appendix E: Disconnected Impervious Area
   
Appendix F: References
Article I
General Provisions
§ 101 Statement of Findings.
   The Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township finds that:
      A.   Inadequate management of accelerated stormwater runoff resulting
from development and redevelopment throughout a watershed increases flood flows
and velocities, contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the
carrying capacity of existing streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the
cost of public facilities to convey and manage stormwater, undermines
floodplain management and flood reduction efforts in upstream and downstream
communities, reduces groundwater recharge, damages private property, and
threatens public health and safety.
      B.   Inadequate planning and management of stormwater runoff resulting
from land development and redevelopment throughout a watershed can also harm
surface water resources by changing the natural hydrologic patterns,
accelerating stream flows (which increase scour and erosion of streambeds and
streambanks thereby elevating sedimentation), destroying aquatic habitat and
elevating aquatic pollutant concentrations and loadings such as sediments,
nutrients, heavy metals and pathogens. Groundwater resources and water supply
are also impacted through loss of recharge due to increased impervious surface
and modification of groundcover.
      C.   Stormwater is an important water resource that provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and supports the base flow of streams.
      D.   The use of green infrastructure and low impact development (LID) are
intended to address the root cause of water quality impairment by using systems
and practices which use or mimic natural processes to: 1) infiltrate and
recharge, 2) evapotranspire, and/or 3) harvest and use precipitation near where
it falls to earth. Green infrastructure practices and LID contribute to the
restoration or maintenance of pre-development hydrology.
      E.   A comprehensive program of stormwater management (SWM), including
reasonable regulation of development and other activities causing loss of
natural infiltration, is fundamental to the public health, safety, welfare, and
the protection of the people of the Township and all the people of the
Commonwealth, their resources, and the environment.
      F.   Public education on the control of pollution from stormwater is an
essential component in successfully addressing stormwater effects.
      G.   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities such as
Springfield Township to implement a program of stormwater controls. These
municipalities are required to obtain a federal permit for stormwater
discharges from their separate storm sewer systems under the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES).
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 102 Purpose.
   The purpose of this comprehensive stormwater management ordinance is to
promote health, safety, and welfare within Springfield Township by minimizing
the damages described in Section
101.A of this Ordinance through provisions designed to:
      A.   Provide procedures, performance standards, and design criteria for
stormwater planning and management.
      B.   Utilize and preserve the existing natural drainage systems as much
as possible.
      C.   Manage stormwater impacts close to the runoff source to reduce
runoff volumes and mimic predevelopment hydrology.
      D.   Promote alternative project designs and layouts that minimize
negative impacts to surface and groundwater.
      E.   Promote nonstructural Best Management Practices.
      F.   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources.
      G.   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff volume.
      H.   Maintain existing flows and quality of streams and watercourses.
      I.   Meet Water Quality requirements under State law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.4a to protect and maintain “existing
uses” and maintain the level of water quality to support those uses in all
streams, and to protect and maintain water quality in “special protection”
streams.
      J.   Prevent streambank and streambed scour and erosion.
      K.   Provide for proper operation and maintenance of all permanent
stormwater management practices that are implemented within the Township.
      L.   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 103 Statutory Authority.
   The Township is empowered to regulate land use activities that affect runoff
by the authority of the Act of October 4, 1978 32 P.S., P.L. 864 (Act 167)
Section 680.1 et seq., as amended, the “Storm Water Management Act”; and by the
Authority of Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247 of 1968, as
amended by Act 170 of 1988, as further amended by Act 209 of 1990 and Act 131
of 1992, 53 P.S. Section 10101.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 104 Applicability.
   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbance activity, are subject
to regulation by this Ordinance; and shall apply to all areas of the Township
including the Tohickon Creek Watershed and Delaware River (North) Watershed
(which includes Cooks Creek Watershed designated as Exceptional Value pursuant
to Pennsylvania Chapter 93 Water Quality Standards) as delineated in Appendix B
which is hereby adopted as part of this Ordinance.
   This Ordinance shall apply to temporary and permanent stormwater management
facilities constructed as part of any of the regulated activities listed in
this section. Stormwater management and erosion and sedimentation control
during construction activities that are specifically not regulated by this
Ordinance, shall continue to be regulated under existing laws and ordinances.
   This Ordinance contains stormwater management performance standards and
design criteria that are necessary or desirable from a watershed-wide
perspective. Stormwater management design criteria (e.g. inlet spacing, inlet
type, collection system design and details, outlet structure design, etc.)
shall continue to be regulated by applicable ordinances.
   The following activities are defined as 'Regulated Activities' and shall be
regulated by this Ordinance except as exempted by Section
105 of this Ordinance:
      A.   Addition of any impervious surface greater than 500 square feet
within a Carbonate Geology Area.
      B.   Subdivision and Land Development.
      C.   Prohibited or polluted discharges.
      D.   Alteration of the natural hydrologic regime.
      E.   Construction of additional impervious surfaces (e.g. driveways,
parking lots, etc.) and/or construction of new buildings or additions to
existing buildings which cumulatively (refer Section
105.B) exceed 1,000 square feet in area (or 500 square feet in carbonate
geology areas) and which result in additional impervious surface since the
effective date of Stormwater Management Ordinance #121 on September 10, 2002.
      F.   Diversion or piping of any natural or man-made stream channel.
      G.   Installation of BMPs and stormwater management facilities or
appurtenances thereto.
      H.   Temporary storage of impervious or pervious material (rock, soil,
etc.) where ground contact exceeds five (5) percent of the lot area or 5,000
square feet (whichever is less), and where the material is placed on slopes
exceeding eight (8) percent. (Based on PADEP stock piling regulations, maximum
stock pile height is 35 feet with maximum side slopes of 2 to 1).
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 105 Exemptions.
      A.   General Exemptions: The following land use activities are exempt
from stormwater management requirements of Article III of this Ordinance.
         1.   Use of land for gardening for occupant’s home consumption.
         2.   Agriculture when operated in accordance with a conservation plan,
nutrient management plan, or erosion and sedimentation control plan approved by
the Bucks County Conservation District, including activities such as growing
crops, rotating crops, tilling of soil, and grazing animals. Installation of
new, or expansion of existing, farmsteads, animal housing, waste storage, and
production areas having impervious surfaces shall be subject to the provisions
of this Ordinance unless exempt pursuant to Section
105 B.
         3.   Forest Management operations following the Department of
Environmental Protection’s management practices contained in its publication
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Guidelines for Forestry and operating
under an E&S Plan approved by the Bucks County Conservation District which have
a Zoning Permit approval by Springfield Township.
         4.   Public road replacement, replacement paving, repaving and/or
maintenance.
      B.   All Regulated Activities as described in Section
104 of this Ordinance shall comply with the Stormwater Management requirements
hereof except those activities listed in “Stormwater Management Exemption
Criteria” table. Those activities listed in “
302. However, an exemption shall not relieve the applicant from meeting runoff
volume requirements of Section
303 of this ordinance for watersheds draining to High Quality (HQ) or
Exceptional Value (EV) waters.
      Any Regulated Activity that meets the exemption criteria established in
this section is exempt from Stormwater Management Site Plan submission
requirements of Article IV of this Ordinance. Exemption criteria shall apply to
the total development even if development is to take place in phases. The
starting point from which to consider tracts as “parent tracts” is the
effective date of adoption of Stormwater Management Ordinance #121 on September
10, 2002. All impervious surface area constructed on or after the effective
date of this Ordinance shall be considered cumulatively. Impervious surface
existing on the “parent tract” prior to the effective date of Ordinance #121,
shall not be considered in cumulative impervious area calculations for
exemption purposes. An exemption shall not relieve the applicant from
implementing such stormwater control measures and erosion control measures as
are necessary to protect health, safety, and property.
   Table 105.1 & Table 105.2 Stormwater Management Exemption Criteria
      1.   Regulated activities included within Sections
104.E are exempt (except in carbonate geology areas) where the amount of
impervious surface and proposed location on a parcel conforms to the following
tables:
Table 105.1
 
Total Parcel Area (acres)  Maximum Impervious Surface Area (square feet)
<0.5                       1,200
0.5 to 1.0                 2,500
>1.0 to 2.0                4,000
>2.0 to 5.0                5,000
>5.0                       7,500
 
Table 105.2
   Maximum amount of the impervious surface area permitted pursuant to Table 1
within a setback (excluding driveway access) measured from the downslope
property boundary shall conform to the following table:
 
Setback* (feet)  Maximum Impervious Surface Area (square feet) permitted within
                 the setback.
10               None permitted
20               1,000
50               2,500
100              4,000
200              5,000
500              7,500
 
*   The minimum setback distance is measured between the proposed impervious
area (excluding driveway access) and/or stormwater control/structure discharge
point to the downslope property boundary. The maximum allowable impervious
surface area is the amount of impervious surface area permitted within the
setback distance. For example: a total of 4,000 square feet of impervious
surface is permitted within the 100 feet setback, of which none is permitted
within the 10 feet setback, not more than 1,000 square feet is permitted within
the 20 feet setback, and not more than 2,500 square feet is permitted within
the 50 feet setback.
   In lieu of meeting the minimum distance criteria, the applicant may provide
documentation from a Registered Professional Engineer in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania that the increased flows from the site leaves the site in the same
manner as the pre-development condition, and that there will be no adverse
effects to properties along the path of flow(s). The Township may require the
above referenced documentation on any site including a site meeting the minimum
distance or parcel size criteria when deemed necessary at the sole discretion
of the Township.
      2.   Regulated activities included within Sections
104.E proposed on a lot deed restricted from further subdivision, or containing
a conservation easement restricting future development to not more than two (2)
dwellings which conform to requirements of Stormwater Management Exemption
Criteria 1, or the following table are exempt:
 
Total Parcel Area (acres) Maximum Impervious Surface Area* (square feet)
>5.0 to 10.0              7,500
>10.0 to 20.0             10,000
>20.0                     15,000
 
*Location of impervious surface must conform to Table 105.2
      3.   Construction or reconstruction of buildings or additions to existing
buildings or other impervious surface (activities regulated pursuant to
Sections
104.E and F) are exempt where the following conditions are met:
         A.   An area of impervious surface is removed from the site equal to,
or in excess of, the proposed impervious surface area.
         B.   The area where existing impervious surface is removed pursuant to
Item 3.A above must be restored with a minimum of twelve (12) inches of topsoil
and stabilized groundcover.
      4. Lot line adjustment subdivisions are exempt when no increase in
impervious surface is proposed.
      C.   Simplified Procedure for Single Family Dwellings
      Individual home construction projects on existing single-family lots
which result in less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of new
impervious area (including the building footprint, driveway, sidewalks, and
parking areas) or less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of earth
disturbance but do not meet exemption criteria of Section
105.B or are subject to the additional criteria of Section
105.D may utilize the simplified procedure within Appendix C to meet
requirements of the Ordinance and are not required to submit formal drainage
plans to the Township. This procedure may not be utilized for proposed
subdivision or land development, or for projects on existing lots in carbonate
geology areas.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 106 Waivers.
      A.   If the Township determines that any requirement under this Ordinance
cannot be achieved for a particular regulated activity, the Township may, after
an evaluation of alternatives, approve measures other than those in this
Ordinance, subject to Section
106, paragraphs B and C.
      B.   Waivers or modifications of the requirements of this Ordinance may
be approved by the Township if enforcement will exact undue hardship because of
peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question, provided that the
modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and that the purpose
of the Ordinance is preserved. Cost or financial burden shall not be considered
a hardship. Modification may be considered if an alternative standard or
approach will provide equal or better achievement of the purpose of the
Ordinance. A request for modification shall be in writing and accompany the
Stormwater Management Site Plan submission. The request shall provide the facts
on which the request is based, the provision(s) of the Ordinance involved and
the proposed modification.
      C.   No waiver or modification of any regulated stormwater activity
involving earth disturbance greater than or equal to one acre may be granted by
the Township unless that action is approved in advance by the Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) or the delegated county conservation district.
      D.   All applicants seeking an exemption of stormwater management
requirements based upon criteria contained in Section
105B shall be required, at a minimum, to submit the following documentation for
review:
         1.   Three (3) copies of the completed Township Stormwater Management
Application form.
         2.   Stormwater Management Exemption Review Fee and Escrow, as
established by separate resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
         3.   Three (3) copies of a plot plan for the parcel, which is the
subject of the exemption application, containing, at a minimum, the following
information:
            a.   Property boundaries and area of the site, based on deed
information, or field survey.
            b.   Location map identifying the site relative to streets and
other parcels in the vicinity of the site.
            c.   Location of significant natural and existing manmade features,
including wetlands, watercourses, woodlands, steep slopes, structures, parking
areas, driveways, utilities, wells, and septic systems within 200 feet of
proposed impervious surface, regardless of the location of the property
boundary.
            d.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed impervious
surface and other improvements, with setbacks drawn to relate the location of
same to property lines, streets, and existing features.
            e.   North Arrow.
            f.   Plan scale, as applicable.
            g.   Information regarding existing/proposed topography and
drainage patterns, within two hundred (200) feet of proposed impervious surface
based on field survey, USGS mapping, and/or field observation.
            h.   Other information deemed necessary by the Township Engineer to
determine compliance with exemption criteria contained in Section
105.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 107 Erroneous Permit.
   Any permit or authorization issued or approved based on false, misleading or
erroneous information provided by an applicant is void without the necessity of
any proceedings for revocation. Any work undertaken or use established pursuant
to such permit or other authorization is unlawful. No action may be taken by a
board, agency or employee of the Township purporting to validate such a
violation.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 108 Repealer.
   Any ordinance or ordinance provision of the Township inconsistent with any
of the provisions of this ordinance is hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 109 Severability.
   Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
any of the remaining provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 110 Compatibility with Other Ordinance Requirements.
   Approvals issued and actions taken under this Ordinance do not relieve the
Applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other code, law, regulation or Ordinance. To the
extent that this Ordinance imposes more rigorous requirements for stormwater
management, the specific requirements contained in this Ordinance shall be
followed.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article II
Definitions
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows:
      A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the
singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the
singular; words of masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of
feminine gender include masculine gender.
      B.   The word "includes" or "including" shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
      C.   The word “person” includes an individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company, corporation, or any other similar
entity.
      D.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory; the words "may" and
"should" are permissive.
      E.   The words "used” or “occupied" include the words "intended”,
“designed”, “maintained”, or “arranged to be used”, “occupied” or “maintained”.
Accelerated Erosion – The removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of man's activity and the natural processes of a rate greater
than would occur because of the natural process alone.
Agricultural Activity – Activities associated with agriculture such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation, and animal heavy use areas.
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures. Construction of
new buildings or impervious area is not considered an agricultural activity.
Alluvial Soil – Areas subject to periodic flooding as defined in latest
officially issued soil survey information by the U.S. Conservation and Natural
Resources Service.
Alteration – As applied to land, a change in topography as a result of the
moving of soil and rock from one location or position to another; also the
changing of surface conditions by causing the surface to be more or less
impervious; or earth disturbance. Alteration includes removal of trees and
vegetation in a manner, or to an extent, to increase the rate or volume of
stormwater runoff.
Applicant – A landowner or developer who has filed an application for approval
to engage in any Regulated Activities as defined in Section
104 of this Ordinance.
As-Built Plan – Plans that are maintained during construction of the project
and which document the actual locations of the site improvements. As-built plan
must be prepared by a landscape architect, professional land surveyor or
professional engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Bankfull – The point where water begins to overflow the channel onto a
floodplain.
Base Flow – The portion of stream flow that is sustained by groundwater
discharge.
Best Management Practice (BMP) – Activities, facilities, designs, measures, or
procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated activities, to meet
state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater recharge, and to
otherwise meet the purposes of this Ordinance. Stormwater BMPs are commonly
grouped into one of two broad categories or measures: “structural” or “non-
structural.” In this Ordinance, non-structural BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff, whereas structural BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff. Structural BMPs include, but
are not limited to, a wide variety of practices and devices from large-scale
retention ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment
systems, infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design,
bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested
buffers, sand filters, detention basins, and manufactured devices. Structural
stormwater BMPs are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
Carbonate Geology Area – Carbonate areas are defined, inclusively, by maps in
the following publications: Durham Valley Geologic Features (Conservation and
Management Practices for Buckingham and Durham Carbonate Valley, Bucks County
Planning Commission, 1985); Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan (Durham
Township Environmental Advisory Committee, 2000); Geologic Map of Pennsylvania
(Berg, T. M., et al., 1980, PA Geologic Survey). Properties underlain by
limestone in the studies cited above, are delineated on the Springfield
Township Carbonate Overlay Map, as adopted and as may be revised by the
Township.
Channel Erosion – The widening, deepening, and headward cutting of channels and
waterways, due to erosion caused by moderate to large floods.
Conservation District – Bucks County Conservation District.
County – Bucks County
Culvert – A pipe, conduit, or similar structure including appurtenant works
which conveys surface water under or through an embankment or fill.
Dam – An artificial barrier, together with its appurtenant works, constructed
for the purpose of impounding or storing water or another fluid or semifluid,
or a refuse bank, fill or structure for highway, railroad, or other purposes
which does or may impound water or another fluid or semifluid.
DEP – The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
Department – The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
Design Professional (Qualified) – A Professional Engineer, Landscape Architect,
or a Professional Land Surveyor licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and trained to develop stormwater management plans.
Design Storm – The magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation from a
storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g. 50-year storm) and
duration (e.g. 24-hours), used in the design and evaluation of stormwater
management systems. Also see Return Period.
Designee – The agent of the Board of Supervisors involved with the
administration, review, or enforcement of any provisions of this ordinance by
contract or memorandum of understanding.
Detention basin – An impoundment structure designed to manage stormwater runoff
by temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate.
Detention/Retention Basin Watershed – All land area whose surface runoff is
captured by a detention and/or retention basin.
Detention district – Those subareas in which some type of detention is required
to meet the plan requirements and goals of Act 167.
Detention Volume – The volume of runoff that is captured and released into the
waters of the Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
Developer – A person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity,
or any responsible person therein or agent thereof, that undertakes any
regulated activity of this Ordinance.
Development – Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, the construction or placement of buildings or
other structures, mobile homes, streets and other paving, utilities, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling operations, and the
subdivision of land.
Development Plan – The provisions for development including a planned
residential development, a plat of subdivision, all covenants relating to use,
location and bulk of buildings and other structures, intensity of use or
density of development, streets, ways and parking facilities, common open space
and public facilities. The phrase “provisions of development plan” when used in
this Ordinance shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to in this
definition.
Development Site – See Project Site.
Diffused Drainage Discharge – Drainage discharge not confined to a single point
location or channel, such as sheet flow or shallow concentrated flow.
Direct Discharge District – (also No Detention District) – Areas of a watershed
that may discharge post-development runoff without detention facilities without
adversely affecting the total watershed peak flow.
Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA) – Rooftop or other impervious surface that
is directed to a pervious area that allows for infiltration, filtration, and
increased time of concentration.
Disturbed Area – Unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance activity is
occurring or has occurred.
Downslope Property Line – That portion of the property line of the lot, tract,
or parcels of land being developed located such that all overland or pipe flow
from the site would be directed toward it.
Downstream Hydraulic Capacity Analysis – Any downstream capacity hydraulic
analysis conducted in accordance with this Ordinance.
Drainage Conveyance Facility – A stormwater management facility designed to
transmit stormwater runoff which shall include streams, channels, swales,
pipes, conduits, culverts, storm sewers, etc.
Drainage Easement – A right granted by a landowner to a grantee, allowing the
use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
Earth Disturbance Activity – A construction or other human activity which
disturbs and destabilizes the surface of the land including, but not limited
to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavations, embankments, land development,
road maintenance, and the moving, depositing, stockpiling or storing of soil,
rock or earth materials.
Emergency Spillway – A conveyance area that is used to pass peak discharge
greater than the maximum design storm controlled by the stormwater facility.
Engineer – A licensed professional civil engineer registered by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Erosion – The natural process by which the surface of the land, including
channels, is worn away by water, wind, or chemical action.
Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Plan – A site-specific plan identifying
the BMPs to minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation, pursuant to 25 Pa
Code Chapter 102.
Exceptional Value Waters – Surface waters of high quality which satisfy
Pennsylvania Code Title 25 Environmental Protection, Chapter 93 Water Quality
Standards, §93.4b(b) (relating to antidegradation). Cooks Creek Watershed is
designated as an Exceptional Value Cold Water Fishery.
Existing Conditions – The dominant land cover during the 5-year period
immediately preceding a proposed Regulated Activity. Farm field, disturbed
earth, or undeveloped cover conditions of a site or portions of a site used for
modeling purposes, shall be considered “meadow” unless the natural groundcover
generates lower curve numbers or Rational “C” value, such as forested land.
Existing man- made impervious surfaces shall be considered as “meadow” when
developing “cover complex” calculations.
FEMA – Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Flood – A temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry
land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers, and other waters of this
commonwealth.
Floodplain – Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any natural
source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a special
flood hazard area. Also includes areas that comprise Group 13 Soils, as listed
in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for Sewage Enforcement
Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP).
Floodway – The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the 100-year
frequency flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
frequency floodway, it is assumed, absent evidence to the contrary, that the
floodway extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the
stream.
Forest Management/Timber Operations – Planning and activities necessary for the
management of forestland. These include conducting a timber inventory,
preparation of forest management plans, silvicultural treatment, cutting
budgets, logging road design and construction, timber harvesting, site
preparation, and reforestation.
Freeboard – A vertical distance between the elevation of the design high-water
and the top of a dam, levee, tank, basin, or diversion ridge. The space is
required as a safety margin in a pond or basin.
Grade – The slope of a street, other public way, land area, drainage facility
or pipe specified in percent.
Grassed Waterway – A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, used to conduct surface water.
Green Infrastructure – Systems and practices that use or mimic natural
processes to infiltrate, evapotranspire, or reuse stormwater on the site where
it is generated.
Groundwater Recharge – Replenishment of natural underground water supplies.
HEC-HMS – The US Army Corps of Engineers, Hydrologic Engineering Center (HEC) –
Hydrologic Modeling System (HMS).
High Quality Waters – Surface waters having quality which exceeds levels
necessary to support propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife and
recreation in and on the water by satisfying Pennsylvania Code Title 25
Environmental Protection, Chapter 93, Water Quality Standards, §93.4b(a).
Hydric Soil – A soil that is saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop an anaerobic condition in the upper part.
Hydrologic Regime (Natural) – The hydrologic cycle or balance that sustains
quality and quantity of stormwater, baseflow, storage, and groundwater supplies
under the natural conditions.
Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG) – Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and are
affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates. Soils are
classified into four HSGs (A, B, C, and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. The
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the US Department of
Agriculture defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in
the United States and their group classification. The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district offices. Soils become
less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D. (NRCS1, 2)
Hyetograph – A graphical representation of average rainfall, rainfall excess
rates, or volumes over specified areas during successive units of time during a
storm.
Impervious Surface (Impervious Area) – A surface that prevents the infiltration
of water into the ground. Impervious surfaces (or areas) shall include, but not
be limited to: roofs; additional indoor living spaces, patios, garages, storage
sheds and similar structures; and any new streets or sidewalks. Decks, parking
areas, and driveway areas are not counted as impervious areas if they are
designed so that they do not prevent infiltration.
Impoundment – A retention or detention basin designed to retain and/or
infiltrate stormwater runoff and release it at a controlled rate.
Infiltration Structure - A structure designed to direct runoff into the ground
(e.g. french drains, seepage pits, seepage trench, biofiltration swale,
infiltration basins).
Inlet – A surface connection to a closed drain. A structure at the diversion
end of a conduit. The upstream end of any structure through which water may
flow.
Invert – The inside bottom of a culvert or other conduit.
Karst – A type of topography or landscape characterized by surface depressions,
sinkholes, rock pinnacles/uneven bedrock surface, underground drainage and
caves. Karst is formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestone or dolomite.
Land Development – Inclusive of any or all of the following meanings:
      1.   The improvement of one (1) or two (2) or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         A.   A group of two (2) or more residential or nonresidential
buildings, whether purposed initially or cumulatively, or a single
nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants
or tenure; or
         B.   the division or allocation of land or space, whether initially or
cumulatively, between or among two (2) or more existing or prospective
occupants by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      2.   A subdivision of land.
      3.   Development in accordance with Section 503(1.1) of the PA
Municipalities Planning Code.
      4.   "Land development" does not include development which involves the
following:
         A.   The conversion of an existing single family detached dwelling or
single family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three (3) residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         B.   The addition of a residential accessory building, including farm
building, on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         C.   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this subsection, an amusement park is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
Limiting Zone – A soil horizon or condition in the soil profile or underlying
strata which includes one of the following:
      1.   A seasonal high water table, whether perched or regional, determined
by direct observation of the water table or indicated by soil mottling.
      2.   A rock with open joints, fracture or solution channels, or masses of
loose rock fragments, including gravel, with insufficient fine soil to fill the
voids between the fragments.
      3.   A rock formation, other than stratum or soil condition which is so
slowly permeable that it effectively limits downward passage of effluent.
Low Impact Development (LID) – Site design approaches and small-scale
stormwater management practices that promote the use of natural systems for
infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of rainwater. LID can be applied to
new development, urban and suburban retrofits, and revitalization projects. LID
utilizes design techniques that infiltrate, filter, evaporate, and store runoff
close to its source. Rather than rely on costly large-scale conveyance and
treatment systems, LID addresses stormwater through a variety of small, cost-
effective landscape features located on-site.
Main Stem (Main Channel) – Any stream segment or other runoff conveyance
facility used as a reach in the watershed hydrologic model.
Manning Equation (Manning Formula) – A method for calculation of velocity of
flow (e.g., feet per second) and flow rate (e.g., cubic feet per second) in
open channels based upon channel shape, roughness, depth of flow and slope.
"Open channels" may include closed conduits when the flow is not under
pressure.
Municipal Engineer – A professional engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and appointed by the Township pursuant to Article V of the Second
Class Township Code.
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) – A system of conveyances owned by
a state, city, town, or other public entity that include catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man-made channels, pipes, tunnels, or storm drains that
discharge into Waters of the United States.
Municipality – Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania
Nonpoint Source Pollution – Pollution that enters a waterbody from diffuse
origins in the watershed and does not result from discernible, confined, or
discrete conveyances.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) – A provision of the
Clean Water Act that prohibits discharge of pollutants into waters of the U.S.
unless a special permit is issued by the EPA, a state, or a tribal government.
NRCS – Natural Resource Conservation Service (previously SCS).
Open Channel – A drainage element in which stormwater flows with an open
surface. Open channels include, but shall not be limited to, natural and man-
made drainageways, swales, streams, ditches, canals, and pipes flowing partly
full.
Outfall – Point where water flows from a conduit, stream, or drain.
Parent Tract – The parcel of land from which a land development or subdivision
originates as of the date of adoption of the original Stormwater Management
Ordinance (121) on September 10, 2002.
Peak Discharge – The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific storm
event.
Penn State Runoff Model (Calibrated) – The computer-based hydrologic modeling
technique adapted to the watershed for the Act 167 Plan. The model has been
"calibrated" to reflect actual recorded flow values by adjoining key model
input parameters.
Permanently Preserved Land – A parcel or tract of land that is subject to a
recorded conservation easement, in perpetuity, in a manner acceptable to the
Township.
Permanently Removed Volume (PRV) – The volume of runoff that is permanently
removed from the runoff and not released into surface Waters of the
Commonwealth during or after a storm event.
Person – An individual, partnership, association, corporation or other entity.
Pervious Area – Any area not defined as impervious.
Pipe – A culvert, closed conduit, or similar structure (including
appurtenances) that conveys stormwater.
Planning Commission – The Planning Commission of Springfield Township.
PMF (Probable Maximum Flood) – The flood that may be expected from the most
severe combination of critical meteorologic and hydrologic conditions that are
reasonably possible in any area. The PMF is derived from the probable maximum
precipitation (PMP) as determined on the basis of data obtained from the
National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Pretreatment – Techniques employed in stormwater BMPs to provide storage or
filtering to trap coarse materials and other pollutants before they enter the
system.
Project Site – The specific tract of land where any regulated activity in the
Township is planned, conducted or maintained.
Qualified Professional – Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania Department of
State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required by this
Ordinance.
Rational Formula – A rainfall-runoff relation used to estimate peak flow.
Recharge Area – Undisturbed surface area or depression where stormwater
collects, a portion of which infiltrates and replenishes groundwater.
Regulated Earth Disturbance Activity – Activity involving earth disturbance
subject to regulation under 25 Pa. Code 92, 25 Pa. Code 102, or the Clean
Streams Law.
Recharge Volume – A calculated volume of stormwater runoff from impervious
areas which is required to be infiltrated at a site and may be achieved through
use of structural or non-structural BMPs.
Regulated Activities – Any activity to which this Ordinance is applicable
pursuant to Section
104 of this Ordinance.
Release Rate – The percentage of predevelopment peak rate of runoff from a site
or subarea to which the post development peak rate of runoff must be reduced to
protect downstream areas.
Retention Basin – A basin designed to collect and hold and/or infiltrate
stormwater runoff so that a permanent pool is established.
Retention Volume/Removed Runoff – The volume of runoff that is captured and not
released directly into the surface waters of this Commonwealth during or after
a storm event.
Return Period – The average interval, in years, within which a storm event of a
given magnitude can be expected to recur. For example, the 25-year return
period rainfall would be expected to recur on the average once every 25 years;
or stated another way, the probability of a 25-year storm occurring in any one
year is 0.04 (i.e., a 4% chance).
Riparian Buffer – A permanent area of trees and shrubs located adjacent to
intermittent and perennial streams, lakes, ponds, or wetlands.
Riparian Corridor – A vegetated ecosystem along a waterbody that serves to
buffer the waterbody from the effects of runoff by providing water quality
filtering, bank stability, recharge, rate attenuation and volume reduction, and
shading of the waterbody by vegetation. Riparian corridors also provide habitat
and may include streambanks, wetlands, floodplains, and transitional areas.
Riser – A vertical pipe extending from the bottom of a pond that is used to
control the discharge rate from the pond for a specified design storm.
Runoff – Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
Sediment – Soils or other materials transported by surface water as a product
of erosion.
Sediment Basin – A barrier, dam, or retention or detention basin located and
designed to retain rock, sand, gravel, silt, or other material transported by
water.
Sediment Pollution – The placement, discharge or any other introduction of
sediment into the Waters of the Commonwealth.
Sedimentation – The process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by the movement of water.
Separate Storm Sewer System – A system of pipes, open channels, streets, and
other conveyances intended to carry stormwater runoff.
Sheet Flow – Runoff that flows over the ground surface as a thin, even layer,
not concentrated in a channel.
Soil-Cover Complex Method – A method of runoff computation developed by the
NRCS that is based on relating soil type and land use/cover to a runoff
parameter called a Curve Number (CN).
State Water Quality Requirements – The regulatory requirements to protect,
maintain, reclaim, and restore water quality under Title 25 of the Pennsylvania
Code and the Clean Streams Law.
Storage Indication Method – A reservoir routing procedure based on solution of
the continuity equation (inflow minus outflow equals the change in storage)
with outflow defined as a function of storage volume and depth.
Storm Frequency – The number of times that a given storm event occurs or is
exceeded on the average in a stated period of years. Refer "Return Period."
Storm Sewer – A system of pipes and/or open channels that convey intercepted
runoff and stormwater from other sources, but excludes domestic sewage and
industrial wastes.
Stormwater – Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
Stormwater Management Facility – Any structure, natural or man-made, that, due
to its condition, design, or construction, conveys, stores, or otherwise
affects stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities include,
but are not limited to, detention and retention basins, open channels, storm
sewers, pipes, infiltration structures, and other BMPs.
Stormwater Management Permit – A permit issued by the Township after the
drainage plan has been approved. Said permit is issued prior to or with the
final township approval of the proposed development activity.
Stormwater Management Plan – The plan for managing stormwater runoff within the
Township adopted as required by the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864, (Act
167), as amended and known as the “Stormwater Management Act”.
Stormwater Management Site Plan – The plan prepared by the Developer or his
engineer indicating how stormwater runoff will be managed at the particular
site of interest according to this Ordinance.
Stormwater Management Site Plan – Will be designated as SWM Site Plan
throughout this Ordinance.
Stream – Rivers, creeks, springs, and other perennial or intermittent
watercourses containing water at least on a seasonal basis during an average
water year. The term “stream” shall include all “Intermittent Streams” and all
“Perennial Streams”.
   1.   Springs or Seeps – The point where groundwater discharges to become
surface water.
   2.   Stream, Ephemeral – A reach of stream that flows only during and for
short periods following precipitation, and flows in low areas that may or may
not be a well defined channel. Ephemeral stream beds are located above the
water table year-round. Groundwater is not a source of water for the stream.
Some commonly used names for ephemeral streams include: stormwater channel,
drain, swale, gully, dry stream channel, hollow, or saddle.
   3.   Stream, Headwater – The beginning reach of a stream, which collects
water from springs and seeps and provides a hydrologic connection to a
perennial stream. These channels may be ill defined and may move from year to
year depending upon groundwater input, snowmelt, and runoff, but are typified
by hydric soils and hydric vegetation.
   4.   Stream, Intermittent – A reach of stream that flows only during wet
periods of the year and flows in a continuous well-defined channel. During dry
periods, when the water table is depressed by seasonal aridity or drought,
intermittent streams may go down to a trickle of water and appear dry, when in
fact there is water flowing within the stream bottom or “substrate”.
   5.   Stream, Perennial or Watercourse, Perennial – A body of water in a
channel that flows throughout a majority of the year in a defined channel and
is capable, in the absence of pollution, drought, or manmade stream
disturbances, of supporting a benthic macroinvertebrate community that is
composed of two or more recognizable taxonomic groups of organisms, large
enough to be seen by the unaided eye and can be retained by a U.S. Standard No.
30 sieve (28 meshs per inch, 0.595 mm openings) and live at least part of their
life cycles within or upon available substrates in a body of water or water
transport system. A perennial stream can have Q7-10 flow of zero. For the
purposes of this document, a perennial stream includes lakes and ponds.
Stream Enclosure – A bridge, culvert or other structure in excess of one-
hundred (100) feet in length upstream to downstream which encloses a regulated
water of this commonwealth.
Subarea – The smallest drainage unit of a watershed for which stormwater
management criteria have been established in the stormwater management plan.
Subdivision – As defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act
of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247.
Swale – A low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
Time of Concentration (Tc) – The time for surface runoff to travel from the
hydraulically most distant point of the watershed to a point of interest within
the watershed. This time is the combined total of overland flow time and flow
time in pipes or channels, if any.
Tributary Area – The portion of a watershed that contributes runoff to a
particular point in that watershed.
USDA – United States Department of Agriculture.
Volumetric Runoff Coefficient – A variable indicative of stormwater runoff
volume and dependent on the impervious coverage for a site.
Watercourse – Same as stream.
Water Quality Requirements – As defined under state regulations – protection of
designated and existing uses (Refer 25 Pa Code Chapters 93 and 96):
   1.   Each stream segment in Pennsylvania has a “designated use”, such as
“cold water fishery” or “potable water supply”, which are listed in Chapter 93.
These uses must be protected and maintained, under state regulations.
   2.   “Existing uses” are those attained as of November, 1975, regardless
whether they have been designated in Chapter 93. Land development must be
designed to protect and maintain existing uses and maintain the level of water
quality necessary to protect those uses in all streams, and to protect and
maintain water quality in special protection streams.
   3.   Water quality involves the chemical, biological, and physical
characteristics of surface water bodies. After land development, these
characteristics can be impacted by addition of pollutants such as sediment, and
changes in habitat through increased flow volumes and/or rates. Therefore,
discharge to surface waters must be designed and managed to protect the
streambank, streambed, and structural integrity of the waterway, to prevent
these impacts.
Waters of the Commonwealth – Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of
surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial,
within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
Watershed – Region or area bounded peripherally by water parting and draining
to a particular watercourse or body of water.
Wetland – Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, fens, and
similar areas.
Wetland Delineation – The onsite method or process for identifying wetlands.
Wetlands must be delineated by a qualified specialist according to the 1989
Federal Manuals (as amended) for the Delineation of Jurisdictional Wetlands
(whichever is greater) or according to any subsequent Federal or State
regulation. Qualified specialist shall include those persons being Certified
Professional Soil Scientists as registered with Registry of Certified
Professionals in Agronomy Crops and Soils (ARCPACS); or as contained on
consultant’s list of Pennsylvania Association of Professional Soil Scientists
(PAPSS); or as registered with National Society of Consulting Soil Scientists
(NSCSS), or as certified by State and/or Federal certification programs; or by
a qualified Biologist/Ecologist.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article III.
Stormwater Management
§ 301 General Requirements for Stormwater Management.
   A.   All regulated activities within the Township which do not fall under
the exemption criteria contained within Section
105 of this Ordinance shall submit a SWM Site Plan consistent with this
Ordinance to the Township for review. These criteria shall apply to the total
proposed development even if development is to take place in stages. Impervious
surface shall include, but not be limited to, any roof, parking or driveway
areas and any new streets and sidewalks. All gravel and crushed stone areas
shall be assumed to be impervious unless designed as a BMP (e.g. pervious paver
blocks, reinforced turf, gravel filled grids, etc.). (Refer definition of
Impervious Surface within Article II of this Ordinance).
   B.   Regulated activities shall be designed, implemented, operated, and
maintained to meet the purposes of this Ordinance, through these two elements:
      1.   Erosion and sediment control prevention during land development
(i.e., earth disturbance during construction), and
      2.   Water quality protection measures after completion of land
development (i.e., post- construction).
   C.   No approval of any subdivision or land development plan, or issuance of
any building, Erosion and Sedimentation Control and Grading Permit, occupancy
permit, or the commencement of any earth disturbance at a project site within
the Township, shall proceed until the requirements of this Ordinance are met,
including approval of a SWM Site Plan under Section
401 and a permit under PADEP regulations, where applicable.
   D.   Erosion and sediment control during land development shall be addressed
as required by Section
310.
   E.   Water quality protection and infiltration shall be addressed as
required by Sections
311 and
306.
   F.   All Best Management Practices (BMPs) shall conform to the design
criteria of this Ordinance and Pennsylvania Stormwater Management Practices
Manual, December 30, 2006.
   G.   Stormwater drainage systems shall be provided in order to permit
unimpeded flow along natural watercourses, except as modified by stormwater
management facilities designed to encourage infiltration, groundwater recharge,
and improved water quality.
   H.   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated, or otherwise altered without written
notification to the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this Ordinance.
   I.   Existing points of concentrated drainage that discharge onto adjacent
property shall not be altered without written approval of the affected property
owner(s) and shall be subject to any applicable discharge criteria specified in
this ordinance.
   J.   For all subdivision and land development applications, the tributary
area discharging drainage to any location along the site property boundary
shall not increase by more than twenty-five percent (25%) over the
predevelopment condition without written approval from the adjacent affected
property owner(s) and the Township.
   K.   Where a development site is traversed by watercourses, drainage
easements shall be provided conforming to the line of such watercourses. The
width of the easement shall be adequate to provide for the unimpeded flow of
stormwater runoff from the 100-year storm event. However, in no case shall the
easement be less than thirty (30) feet in width. Terms of the easement shall
prohibit excavation, the placing of fill or structures, and any alterations
that may adversely affect the flow of stormwater within any portion of the
easement. Periodic maintenance of the easement shall be required by the
landowner to ensure proper runoff conveyance. The developer shall maintain the
easement until such time as one of the following is accomplished:
      1.   For subdivisions or land developments where there is no homeowner’s
association, condominium association, or other common ownership arrangement;
the individual lot owner assumes responsibility for the maintenance of the
portion of their property through which the easement passes. The record plan
shall contain a description of such easement(s) and notation indicating the
maintenance responsibilities.
      2.   A homeowner’s association or other legal entity approved by the
Township assumes responsibility for maintenance of the development, including
the watercourse easement. The record plan shall contain a description of such
easement(s) and notation indicating the maintenance responsibilities.
   L.   When it can be shown that, due to topographic conditions, natural
drainageways on the site cannot adequately provide for drainage, open channels
may be constructed conforming substantially to the line and grade of such
natural drainageways. Work within natural drainageways shall be subject to
approval by PADEP through the Joint Permit Application process, or, where
deemed appropriate by PADEP, through the General Permit process.
   M.   Any stormwater management facilities regulated by this Ordinance that
would be located on state highway rights-of-way, or discharge stormwater to
facilities located within a state highway right-of-way, shall be subject to
approval by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT).
   N.   Site disturbance and impervious surface shall be minimized.
Infiltrating stormwater runoff through seepage beds, infiltration trenches,
etc. shall be required, where soil conditions permit, to reduce the size or
eliminate the need for retention/detention facilities.
   O.   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to an infiltration bed,
natural watercourse, storm sewer system, or drainage swale (within a stormwater
easement). Roof drains and sump pumps may be connected to storm sewer, drainage
structure, or other approved stormwater conveyance facility when designed as
part of a stormwater management BMP. In no case shall roof drains or sump pumps
be connected to a sanitary sewer or permitted to discharge across a sidewalk,
walkway, or to a street through the curb.
   P.   Infiltration BMPs should be spread out, made as shallow as practicable,
and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration features while
still meeting the other requirements of this Ordinance.
   Q.   Normally dry, open top, storage facilities should completely drain both
the volume control and rate control capacities over a period of time not less
than 24 and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   R.   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates of
discharge should be obtained from the latest version of the Precipitation-
Frequency Atlas of the United States, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design
Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland.
   S.   If methods other than green infrastructure and LID methods are proposed
to achieve the volume and rate controls required under this Ordinance, the SWM
Site Plan must include a detailed justification demonstrating that the use of
LID and green infrastructure is not practicable.
   T.   Special requirements for watersheds draining to high quality (HQ) and
exceptional value (EV) waters: The temperature and quality of water and streams
that have been determined to be exceptional value and high quality are to be
maintained as defined in Chapter 93, Water Quality Standards, Title 25
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection Rules and Regulations.
Maintaining the multiple values of these Special Protection Waters occurs
through maintaining the pre-development or natural water cycle; not decreasing
infiltration and recharge; and not increasing runoff. In so doing, critical
temperature considerations are provided (optimal temperature control is
achieved through infiltration of precipitation to groundwater which maximizes
temperature-moderated stream base flow). In those cases where Runoff Volume
Control cannot be achieved as per Section
303.A.1, temperature sensitive BMPs and stormwater conveyance systems are to be
used and designed with storage pool areas (drawing outflow from the bottom of
the pool) and supply outflow channels shall be shaded with trees. This will
require modification of berms for permanent ponds and the relaxation of
restrictions on planting vegetation within the facilities, provided that
capacity for volumes and rate control is maintained. At a minimum, the southern
half of pond shorelines shall be planted with shade or canopy trees within ten
(10) feet of the pond shoreline. In conjunction with this requirement, the
maximum slope allowed on the berm area to be planted is 10 to 1. This will
lessen the destabilization of berm soils due to root growth. A long-term
maintenance schedule and management plan for the thermal control BMPs is to be
established and recorded for all development sites.
   U.   All collected stormwater runoff shall be pretreated for water quality
prior to discharge to surface or groundwater as required by Section
303 of this Ordinance.
   V.   Completed stormwater management facilities, including detention/
retention basins, shall be surveyed by a professional land surveyor or engineer
licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to verify compliance with the
character of stormwater management facilities as depicted on the approved final
plan (or subsequently approved revision, thereof). As-constructed plans shall
be submitted to Springfield Township for review and approval, upon completion
of construction of all facilities and prior to offer of dedication of any
public facilities and/or submission of financial security for the required
maintenance period. Public facilities will not be accepted by Springfield
Township until such time the as-constructed plans have been reviewed and
approved by the Township Engineer.
   W.   The record plan and development agreement for the approved subdivision
or land development shall define the ownership and maintenance responsibilities
as well as access rights for all drainage related easements. Specifically, the
record plan shall contain a provision permitting access to such easement(s), at
any reasonable time, for inspection and/or emergency repair/maintenance, by
Springfield Township or its designee, of all facilities deemed critical to
public welfare. In the event the lot owner or homeowner’s association fails to
honor their maintenance responsibilities set forth herein, in any manner,
Springfield Township shall have the right of entry upon and within the area of
the easement to undertake any required corrective or maintenance effort. The
total cost of such, including administrative, engineering, and legal costs for
enforcement, may be imposed upon the responsible party as determined by
Springfield Township.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 302 Stormwater Management Districts – Peak Rate Control.
   A.   Mapping of Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate Districts - In order to
implement the provisions of this Ordinance, Tohickon Creek Watershed Stormwater
Management Plan and Delaware River (North) Watershed Stormwater Management
Plan, Springfield Township is hereby divided into Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate
Districts consistent with the plans. The boundaries of the districts are
indicated on the runoff peak rate district map that is available for inspection
at the Township building. A large-scale boundary map is included as Appendix B
for reference.
   B.   The exact location of the Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate District boundary
as it applies to a given development site shall be determined by mapping the
boundaries using the two (2) feet or five (5) feet topographic contours
provided as part of the stormwater management plan developed for the site in
accordance with the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. The District
boundaries as originally drawn coincide with topographic divides or, in certain
instances, are drawn from the intersection of the watercourse or a potential
flow obstruction to the topographic divide consistent with topography. The
locations determined on the stormwater management plan shall be reviewed and
verified by the Township engineer.
   C.   Description of Tohickon Creek Watershed Stormwater Runoff Hydrologic
Peak Rate Districts
      1.   Conditional No Detention Districts (Direct Discharge). Subareas
identified on the official Sub-Basin Map available for inspection at the
Township Office. Included in this district are 2, 3, 8-10, 18, 20, 21, 42, 43,
52, 54, 56, 57, 59, 61, 62, 67, 70-73, 76, 77, 81-83. These sub-areas may
discharge post-development runoff without detention facilities without
adversely affecting the total watershed peak flow. These areas are located
adjacent to the Delaware River. However, where the conveyance capabilities of
the local receiving facilities are not adequate to safely transport the
increased peak flows from undetained runoff a 100% release rate control is
applied.
      2.   100 Percent Release Rate District. Subareas included in this
district are 4-7, 1-17, 19, 22-28, 31-34, 41, 44-51, 53, 55, 58, 60, 63, 64,
66, 68, 69, 74, 75, 84-98, 101, 109, 111 - 114, 116, 118, 119, 121-126. These
subareas are not expected to incur a great deal of development growth due to
location, topography, soils, or a combination of all three factors. Also, the
location in the watershed of these sub-areas is of minor importance in
supporting the overall watershed level runoff control. Therefore, these areas
are allowed to release post-development runoff at a rate that does not exceed
the existing rates of runoff.
   D.   Description of Delaware River (North) Watershed Stormwater Runoff
Hydrologic Peak Rate Districts.
      1.   Conditional No Detention Districts (Direct Discharge). Subareas
included in this district are 1, 2, 6-11, 20, 61-68, 70-72, 89-91, 93. These
subareas may discharge post-development runoff without detention facilities
without adversely affecting the total watershed peak flow. These areas are
located adjacent to the Delaware River, which is capable of absorbing
undetained runoff without affecting the watershed level control. In certain
instances, the conveyance capabilities of the local receiving facilities may
not be adequate to safely transport the increased peak flows from undetained
runoff. In these cases, the developer shall ensure that 100 percent release
rate control is applied to the particular receiving stream(s), and/or the
developer may provide increased capacity of those receiving facilities in order
to ensure safe passage of any undetained runoff.
      2.   100 Percent Release Rate District. Subareas included in this
district are 3-5, 12-19, 21-60, 69, 73-88, 94-103, and 112-130. These subareas
are not expected to incur a great deal of development growth due to location,
topography, soils or a combination of all three factors. Also, the location in
the watershed of these subareas is of minor importance in supporting the
overall watershed level runoff control. Therefore, these areas are allowed to
release post-development runoff at a rate that does not exceed the existing
rates of runoff.
      3.   75 Percent Release Rate District. Subareas included in this district
are 104-111. Certain subareas require the control of stormwater runoff to a
portion of the existing runoff equal to 75 percent. These areas are located in
upper reaches of the watershed, specifically, areas within Springfield and
Lower Saucon Townships. In order to ensure uniform watershed-level runoff
control, the assignment of this release rate on a widespread basis will
uniformly restrict the future runoff in a fashion that favors no particular
sub-watershed.
   E.   Areas of the Township which are not included within either the Tohickon
Creek or Delaware River (North) Watershed are located within either Saucon
Creek Watershed or Perkiomen Creek Watershed, which are 100 percent release
rate districts.
   F.   Sites Located in More Than One District – For a proposed development
site located within two or more release category subareas, the peak discharge
rate from any subarea shall be the pre- development peak discharge for that
subarea multiplied by the applicable release rate. The calculated peak
discharges shall apply regardless of whether the grading plan changes the
drainage areas by subarea.
   G.   Off-Site Areas – Off-site areas that drain through a proposed
development site are not subject to release rate criteria when determining
allowable peak runoff rates or volume reduction. However, on-site drainage
facilities shall be designed to safely convey off-site flows through or around
the development site to existing points of discharge from the property.
   H.   Where the area of a site being impacted by a proposed development
activity differs significantly from the total site area, only the proposed
disturbed area utilizing stormwater management measures shall be subject to the
management district criteria. Unimpacted or undisturbed areas that do not flow
into, or bypass, the stormwater management facilities shall not be subject to
the Stormwater Management District criteria.
   I.   “Downstream Hydraulic Capacity Analysis” – Any downstream capacity
hydraulic analysis conducted in accordance with this ordinance shall use the
following criteria for determining adequacy for accepting increased peak flow
rates.
      1.   Natural or man-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased runoff associated with a 2-year return period event within their
banks at velocities consistent with protection of the channels from erosion.
Acceptable velocities shall be based upon criteria included in the DEP Erosion
and Sediment Pollution Control Program Manual.
      2.   Natural or man-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased 25-year return period runoff without creating any hazard to persons
or property, or wildlife and aquatic habitat. Habitat impact should be
minimized or avoided.
      3.   Culverts, bridges, storm sewers or any other facilities which must
pass or convey flows from the tributary area must be designed in accordance
with DEP, Chapter 105 regulations (if applicable) and, at a minimum, pass the
increased 25-year return period runoff.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 303 Volume Controls.
   The green infrastructure and low impact development practices provided in
the BMP Manual4 shall be utilized for all regulated activities wherever
possible. Water volume controls shall be implemented using the Design Storm
Method in Subsection A or the Simplified Method in Subsection B below. For
regulated activity areas equal or less than one acre that do not require
hydrologic routing to design the stormwater facilities, this Ordinance
establishes no preference for either methodology; therefore, the applicant may
select either methodology on the basis of economic considerations, the
intrinsic limitations on applicability of the analytical procedures associated
with each methodology, and other factors.
      A.   The Design Storm Method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual4) is applicable to
any size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
         1.   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the 2-year 24-hour duration precipitation.
         2.   For modeling purposes:
            a.   Existing (predevelopment) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow in good condition.
            b.   100% of existing impervious area, when present, shall be
considered meadow in good condition in the model for existing conditions.
      B.   The Simplified Method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual4) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the Design Storm Method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities. For new impervious surfaces:
         1.   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two (2)
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
         2.   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not
be released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options
include reuse, evaporation, transpiration, and infiltration.
         3.   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff, however, in
all cases at least the first 0.5 inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
         4.   This method is exempt from the requirements of Section
302, Peak Rate Control.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 304 Riparian Buffers.
   A.   In order to protect and improve water quality, a Riparian Buffer
Easement shall be created and recorded as part of any subdivision or land
development that encompasses a Riparian Buffer.
   B.   Except as required by PA Code, Chapter 102, the Riparian Buffer
Easement shall be measured to be the greater of the limit of the 100 year
floodplain or a minimum of 125 feet from the center of the bed of a perennial
or intermittent stream or watercourse (on each side).
   C.   Minimum Management Requirements for Riparian Buffers.
      1.   Existing native vegetation shall be protected and maintained within
the Riparian Buffer Easement.
      2.   Whenever practicable invasive vegetation shall be actively removed
and the Riparian Buffer Easement shall be planted with native trees, shrubs and
other vegetation to create a diverse native plant community appropriate to the
intended ecological context of the site.
   D.   The Riparian Buffer Easement shall be enforceable by the Township and
shall be recorded in the appropriate County Recorder of Deeds Office, so that
it shall run with the land and shall limit the use of the property located
therein. The easement shall allow for the continued private ownership and shall
count toward the minimum lot area as required by Zoning, unless otherwise
specified in the Township Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   Any permitted use within the Riparian Buffer Easement shall be
conducted in a manner that will maintain the extent of the existing 100-year
floodplain, improve or maintain the stream stability, and preserve and protect
the ecological function of the floodplain.
   F.   The following conditions shall apply when public and/or private
recreation trails are permitted within Riparian Buffers:
      1.   Trails shall be for non-motorized use only.
      2.   Trails shall be designed to have the least impact on native plant
species and other sensitive environmental features.
   G.   Septic drainfields and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted
within the Riparian Buffer Easement and shall comply with setback requirements
established under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 305 Nonstructural Project Design (Sequencing to Minimize Stormwater Impacts).
   A.   For design and applicability of non-structural BMPs refer to Chapter 5
of the “Pennsylvania Stormwater Management Practices Manual”, December 2006, as
amended. For the non-structural BMPs proposed, the applicant shall utilize and
submit appropriate checklists included in Chapter 8, Section 8.8 of the
“Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual”, December 2006, as
amended to demonstrate that the BMPs are applicable to the project and to
determine the amount of volume or peak rate credit is applicable.
   B.   The applicant for major subdivision or land development approval shall
demonstrate that stormwater management is designed in the following sequence to
minimize the increase in stormwater runoff and degradation of water quality:
      1.   Prepare an Existing Resource and Site Analysis Plan (ERSAP), as
required by the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, showing
environmentally sensitive areas including, but not limited to, steep slopes,
ponds, lakes, streams, wetlands, hydric soils, vernal pools, floodplains,
riparian corridors, hydrologic soil groups A, B, C, and D, “prime agricultural
soils” (prime farmland and farmland of statewide importance as designated in
the soil survey of Bucks County), woodlands, surface waters regulated by the
State or Federal Government, any existing recharge areas, and any other
requirements outlined in the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
      2.   Prepare a draft project layout avoiding sensitive areas identified
in Section
304.B.1 (and as further defined by Section 508 of the Zoning Ordinance) and
minimizing total site earth disturbance. The ratio of disturbed area to the
entire site area and measures taken to minimize earth disturbance shall be
included in the ERSAP.
      3.   Identify site specific existing conditions, drainage areas,
discharge points (points of interest), recharge areas, and hydrologic soil
groups A and B.
      4.   Evaluate Nonstructural Stormwater Management Alternatives.
         a.   Minimize earth disturbance.
         b.   Minimize impervious surfaces.
         c.   Break up large impervious surfaces.
      5.   Satisfy volume control objective (Section
303).
      6.   Satisfy stream bank erosion protection objective (Section
307).
      7.   Determine the Management (Release Rate) District within which the
site is located (refer Appendix B) and conduct a predevelopment runoff
analysis.
      8.   Prepare final project design to maintain predevelopment drainage
areas and discharge points, to minimize earth disturbance and impervious
surfaces, to reduce runoff to the maximum extent possible, and to minimize the
use of surface or point discharges.
      9.   Conduct a proposed conditions runoff analysis based on the final
design and to meet the release rate and in turn the overbank flow and extreme
event requirements (Section
307).
      10.   Manage any remaining runoff through treatment prior to discharge,
as part of detention, bioretention, direct discharge or other structural
control.
      11.   Prepare a stormwater management operation and maintenance plan
consistent with requirements of Section
702 that ensures the long term viability of the stormwater control facilities.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 306 Additional Requirements Applicable to Infiltration Oriented Stormwater
Management Systems.
   A.   Prevention of stormwater runoff is the key objective of Chapter 93 of
the DEP regulations, because runoff can change the physical, chemical, and
biological integrity of waterbodies thereby impacting water quality.
   B.   The project plan shall describe how water quality protection
requirements will be met. Infiltration BMPs shall be evaluated and utilized to
the maximum extent possible to manage the net change in stormwater runoff
generated so that post construction discharges do not degrade the physical,
chemical, or biological characteristics of the receiving waters.
   C.   Post construction stormwater infiltration of runoff shall replicate
preconstruction infiltration of runoff to the maximum extent possible.
   D.   In calculating the volume of runoff that can be infiltrated at a site,
the following methodology shall be used:
      1.   Methodology:
         Rev = [(S)( Rv)(A)]/12 (inches/foot), where:
         Rev = Recharge Volume (acre-feet)
         S = Soil specific recharge factor (inches)
         A = Site area contributing to the recharge facility (acres)
         Rv = Volumetric runoff coefficient, Rv = 0.05 + 0.009 (I), where:
         I =   percent impervious area, and S shall be obtained based upon
hydrologic soil group based upon the table below:
 
Hydrologic Soil Group Soil Specific Recharge Factor (S)
A                     0.38
B                     0.25
C                     0.13
D                     0.06
 
   If more than one hydrologic soil group (HSG) is present at a site, a
composite recharge volume shall be computed based upon the proportion of total
site area within each HSG.
      2.   In selecting the appropriate infiltration BMPs, the applicant shall
consider the following:
         (a)   Permeability and infiltration rate of the site soils.
         (b)   Topographic slope and depth to bedrock.
         (c)   Seasonal high water table.
         (d)   Proximity and elevation relative to building foundations,
basements, and well heads. (Infiltration BMPs should be located downgrade of
these structures).
         (e)   Erodibility of soils.
         (f)   Land availability, configuration, and topography.
         (g)   Peak discharge and required volume control.
         (h)   Streambank erosion.
         (i)   Efficiency of the BMPs to mitigate potential water quality
problems.
         (j)   Volume of runoff that will be effectively treated.
         (k)   Nature of the pollutant to be removed.
         (l)   Maintenance requirements.
         (m)   Creation/protection of aquatic and wildlife habitat.
         (n)   Recreational value.
         (o)   Enhancement of aesthetic and property value.
      3.   A detailed soils evaluation of the project site shall be performed
to determine the suitability of infiltration BMPs. The evaluation shall be
performed by a qualified professional, and at a minimum, address soil
permeability, depth to bedrock, susceptibility to sinkhole formation, and
subgrade stability. The site testing shall include adequate sampling of all
portions of the site except those limited by 100% protected natural resources
to determine areas of the property which are suitable for infiltration BMPs.
The general process for designing the infiltration BMP shall be:
         (a)   Analyze hydrologic soil groups as well as natural and manmade
features within the site to determine general areas of suitability for
infiltration BMPs.
         (b)   Provide field testing data at the elevation of the proposed
infiltration zone (bottom surface of infiltration facilities) to determine
appropriate percolation rate and/or hydraulic conductivity.
         (c)   Design infiltration BMPs for required stormwater volume based on
field-determined capacity at the level of the proposed infiltration surface.
      4.   Soil characteristics:
         (a)   Infiltration BMPs are particularly appropriate in hydrologic
soil groups A and B, as described in the Natural Resources Conservation Service
Manual TR-55.
         (b)   Low-erodibility factors (“K” factors) are preferred for the
construction of basins.
         (c)   There must be a minimum depth of eighteen (18) inches between
the bottom of any facility and the seasonal high water table and/or bedrock
(limiting zones), except for infiltration BMPs receiving only roof runoff which
shall be placed in soils having a minimum depth of twelve (12) inches between
the bottom of the facility and the limiting zone. The minimum required
separation between the limiting zone may be increased, if required by the
Township, should project specific conditions exist (such as anticipated
increased contaminants) which dictate greater prevention of groundwater
contamination.
         (d)   There must be an infiltration and/or percolation rate sufficient
to accept the additional stormwater load, and to drain completely as determined
by field tests.
         (e)   A minimum of thirty (30) feet of undisturbed fill shall separate
the foundation wall of any building and an infiltration BMP.
         (f)   The infiltration system shall have positive overflow controls to
prevent storage within one foot of the finished surface of grade.
         (g)   Infiltration rates shall not be used in computing the storage
volume of the infiltration system.
         (h)   Surface inflows shall be designed to prevent direct discharge of
sediment into the infiltration system.
      5.   The recharge volume provided at the site shall be directed to the
most permeable HSG (Hydrologic Soil Group) available, except where other
considerations apply such as in limestone geology.
      6.   Any infiltration BMP shall be capable of completely infiltrating the
impounded water within forty-eight (48) hours from the end of the storm.
      7.   Special attention shall be paid to proper installation of
infiltration-oriented stormwater management systems during construction and to
careful avoidance of soil compaction during site development.
      8.   Infiltration is not permitted in geologically susceptible limestone
areas including the Carbonate Geology Overlay Zoning District without a
carbonate study prepared in accordance with Section 509.2.I. of the Springfield
Township Zoning Ordinance. Use of Disconnected Impervious Area BMPs is
encouraged within the Carbonate Geology Overlay District. (Refer Appendix E).
All other stormwater facilities in this overlay district must be constructed
with an impermeable liner approved by the Township to prevent seepage of water
into the ground. All proposed channels or swales receiving or conveying
concentrated stormwater runoff must be protected with an impermeable liner
approved by the Township.
      9.   Caution shall be exercised where salt or chloride would be a
pollutant since soils do little to filter this pollutant and it may contaminate
the groundwater. Extreme caution shall be exercised where infiltration is
proposed in source water protection areas. The qualified design professional
shall evaluate the possibility of groundwater contamination from the proposed
infiltration/recharge facility and perform a hydrogeologic justification study
if necessary. The infiltration requirement in High Quality/Exceptional Value
waters shall be subject to DEP’s Title 25: Chapter 93 Antidegradation
Regulations. The Township may require the installation of an impermeable liner
in BMP and/or detention basins where the possibility of groundwater
contamination exists. A detailed hydrogeologic investigation may be required by
the Township.
      10.   The plan must include safeguards against groundwater contamination
for uses which may cause groundwater contamination, should there be a mishap or
spill.
      11.   During the period of land disturbance, runoff shall be controlled
prior to entering any proposed infiltration area. Areas proposed for
infiltration BMPs shall be protected from sedimentation and compaction during
the construction phase, so as to maintain their maximum infiltration capacity.
      12.   Infiltration BMPs shall not be constructed nor receive runoff until
the entire contributory drainage area to the infiltration BMP has achieved
final stabilization.
      13.   The requirements for volume control and infiltration are applied to
all disturbed areas, even if they are ultimately to be a pervious or permeable
land use such as lawn or other landscaped area, given the extent to which
development-related disturbance leads to compaction of the soils and reduces
their infiltrative capacity.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 307 Stream Bank Erosion Requirements.
   In addition to the water quality volume, to minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff on downstream stream bank erosion, a BMP must be designed to
detain the proposed conditions 2-year, 24-hour design storm to the existing
conditions 1-year flow using the SCS Type II distribution. Additionally,
provisions shall be made (such as adding a small orifice at the bottom of the
outlet structure) so that the proposed conditions 1-year storm takes a minimum
of 24-hours to drain from the facility from a point where the maximum volume of
water from the 1-year storm is captured (e.g. the maximum water surface
elevation is achieved in the facility).
   Release of water may begin at the start of the storm (e.g. the invert of the
water quality orifice is at the invert of the facility). The design of the
facility shall minimize clogging and sedimentation. Orifices smaller than four
(4) inches in diameter are not allowed unless the design engineer can verify
that the smaller orifice is protected from clogging by use of trash racks, etc.
In that case, smaller orifices may be permitted. Trash racks are required for
any primary orifice.
   Whenever a watercourse is located within a development site, it shall remain
open in the natural state and location and shall not be piped, impeded, or
altered (except for road crossings). It is the responsibility of the developer
to restore existing eroded stream/channel banks within a subdivision or land
development site and obtain all permits necessary from PADEP, to do so. The
developer must submit pictorial documentation of existing stream/channel banks
to determine whether existing banks must be stabilized.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 308 Design Criteria for Stormwater Management Facilities and Best Management
Practices.
   A.   Stormwater runoff which may result from Regulated Activities listed in
Section
104 shall be controlled by permanent stormwater runoff BMPs that will meet the
required standards within Article III. The methods of stormwater control or
Best Management Practices (BMPs) which may be used to meet the required
standards are described in this Ordinance and “Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practice Manual”, December 30, 2006, as amended. The choice of BMPs
is not limited to the ones appearing in this Ordinance and the manual, however,
any selected BMP must meet or exceed the runoff peak rate requirements of this
Ordinance for the applicable Hydrologic District.
   B.   Any stormwater facility located on state highway rights-of-way shall be
subject to approval by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   C.   Collection System Standards
      1.   Curb Inlets – Curb inlets shall be located at curb tangents on the
uphill side of street intersections, and at intervals along the curb line to
control the maximum amount of encroachment of runoff on the roadway pavement so
that same does not exceed a width of four feet during the design storm event.
Design and location of curb inlets shall be approved by the Township.
      2.   Pipe Materials – All storm sewer piping shall be Class III
reinforced concrete pipe, except when pipe class and strength is required to be
increased in accordance with PennDOT Specifications. Piping shall be saw-cut at
ends, as needed, and not hammered or broken. All pipe joints and lift holes
must be mortared except where designed for infiltration.
      3.   Minimum Pipe Size – Minimum pipe diameter shall be eighteen (18)
inches (or an equivalent flow area of 1.76 square feet).
      4.   Inlet and Manhole Construction – Inlet and manhole castings and
concrete construction shall be equivalent to PennDOT Design Standards. Manhole
castings and covers shall have the word “STORM” cast in two (2”) inch high
letters on the top of the cover. All inlet grates shall be “bicycle safe” heavy
duty structural steel.
      5.   Storm Drain Notification Marking – All storm sewer inlets must be
identified with a storm drain marker. Storm drain markers shall be cast in the
inlet hood, or a stainless steel marker affixed to the inlet hood with
adhesive, rivets, or bolts. (Marker may be bolted to the grate in off road
locations). Marker shall have a minimum diameter of 3½ inches and include “No
Dumping – Drains to Waterway” and a fish symbol. Alternate designs/sizes may be
used as approved by DEP.
      6.   Open end pipes must be fitted with concrete endwalls or wing walls
in accordance with PennDOT Standards.
      7.   Flow velocity – Stormwater collection systems shall be designed to
produce a minimum velocity of 3.0 feet per second when flowing full. The
maximum permissible velocity shall be 15.0 feet per second. Pipe slopes shall
not be less than 0.05%.
      8.   Inlets and manholes shall be spaced at intervals not exceeding 300
feet, and shall be located wherever branches are connected or sizes are
changed, and wherever there is a change in alignment or grade. For drainage
lines of at least thirty-six (36) inches diameter, inlets and manholes may be
spaced at intervals of four hundred (400) feet. Manholes shall be equipped with
open grate lids.
      9.   Storm sewer bedding/backfill requirements shall conform to the
construction details in Appendix D.
      10.   Inlets shall be located to intercept concentrated runoff prior to
discharge over public/private rights-of-way, sidewalks, streets, and driveways.
      11.   The capacity of all Type ‘C’ inlets shall be based on a maximum
surface flow to the inlets of 4.0 cfs, calculated based on the 100-year
frequency design storm event. The maximum flow to Type ‘C’ inlets located in
low points (such as sag vertical curves) shall include the overland flow
directed to the inlet as well as all bypass runoff from upstream inlets. The
bypass flow from upstream inlets shall be calculated using inlet efficiency
curves included in PennDOT Design Manual Part 2, latest edition. If the surface
flow to an inlet exceeds 4.0 cfs, additional inlets shall be provided upstream
of the inlet to intercept the excessive surface flow. A Type ‘C’ inlet at a low
point of a paved area may be designed to accept a maximum of six (6) cubic feet
per second (CFS).
   Type ‘M’ inlets shall be designed to accept a maximum surface flow of six
(6) CFS based on the 100-year frequency design storm event, unless otherwise
approved by the Township. Double inlets will not be permitted where additional
pipe and inlets can be placed upstream to intercept excessive surface flow. A
maximum of twelve (12) CFS shall be permitted to be collected by a Type ‘M’
inlet located in an isolated pervious area provided the designer can verify
that such an inlet would not cause stormwater to accumulate on any adjacent
public or private property, outside of an associated storm sewer easement, and
that the depth of the accumulated stormwater would not exceed twelve (12)
inches.
      12.   A minimum drop of two (2) inches shall be provided between the
inlet and outlet pipe invert elevations within all inlets and manholes. When
varying pipe sizes enter an inlet or manhole, the elevation of crown of all
pipes shall be matched.
      13.   Stormwater pipes shall have a minimum depth of cover of twelve (12)
inches (including over the bell) or as designated by the American Concrete Pipe
Association (whichever is greater), and in no case shall any part of the pipe
project into the road subbase or curb. Where cover is restricted, equivalent
pipe arches may be specified in lieu of circular pipe.
      14.   The capacity of all stormwater pipes shall be calculated utilizing
the Manning Equation for open channel flow as applied to closed conduit flow.
The Manning’s roughness coefficient shall be 0.13 for all concrete pipe. In
cases where pressure flow may occur, the hydraulic grade line shall be
calculated throughout the storm sewer system to verify that at least one foot
of freeboard will be provided in all inlets and manholes for the design storm
event.
      15.   Culverts shall be designed based on procedures contained in
Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts, HDS #5, U.S. Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. Where pressure flow is
anticipated in storm sewer pipes (non-open channel flow), the applicant’s
designer shall be required to calculate the elevation of the hydraulic grade
line through the storm sewer system. Wherever the hydraulic grade line
elevation exceeds the pipe crown elevation for the design flow, pipes with
watertight joints must be specified.
      16.   Storm sewer structures (e.g. endwalls, inlets, and sections, etc.)
may not be located on top of, or within ten (10) feet of electric,
communication, water, sanitary sewer, or gas services and/or mains, unless
approval is received from the Township and the Authority or Utility having
jurisdiction over same.
      17.   Stormwater pipes must be oriented at right angles to electric,
water, sanitary sewer, and gas utilities when crossing above or beneath same.
Crossing angles of less than 90 degrees will only be permitted at the
discretion of the Township. When skewed crossings are permitted, interior
angles between alignment of the storm sewer pipe and utility may not be less
than 45 degrees. Vertical and horizontal design of storm sewer must be linear.
      18.   Roadway underdrain is required along both sides of all proposed
roadways, existing roadways proposed to be widened, and within existing or
proposed roadside swales as directed by the Township.
      19.   Where a public storm sewer system is not located within a right-of-
way, or dedicated public property, a twenty (20) feet wide easement shall be
established to encompass the storm sewer system. For multiple pipes or
utilities, the width of the easement shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet.
      20.   A minimum of one (1) foot of freeboard, between the inlet grate and
the design flow elevation, shall be provided in all storm sewer systems (inlets
and manholes) for the 100-year frequency design storm event.
   D.   Open Swales and Gutters – Open swales shall be designed on the basis of
Manning’s Formula as indicated for collection systems with the following
considerations:
      1.   Roughness Coefficient – The roughness coefficient shall be 0.040 for
earth swales.
      2.   Bank Slopes – Slopes for swale banks shall not be steeper than one
(1) vertical to four (4) horizontal.
      3.   Flow Velocity – The maximum velocity of flow as determined by
Manning’s equation shall not exceed the allowable velocities as shown in the
following table for the specific type of material, unless otherwise approved by
the Township and the Bucks County Conservation District.
   Note: Source of the following design criteria is the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Soil and Water Conservation Publication,
Erosion and Sediment Control Program Manual.
   ALLOWABLE VELOCITY
Material Velocity in feet per second (fps)
Material                            Velocity in feet per second (fps)
Well established grass on good soil
Short Pliant bladed grass           4.0 to 5.0
Bunch grass – soil exposed        2.0 to 3.0
Stiff stemmed grass                 3.0 to 4.0
Earth without vegetation
Fine sand or silt                   1.0
Ordinary firm loam                  2.0 to 3.0
Stiff clay                          3.0 to 5.0
Clay and gravel                     4.0 to 5.0
Coarse gravel                       4.0 to 5.0
Soft shale                          5.0 to 6.0
Shoulders
Earth                               (as defined above)
Stabilized                          6.0
Paved                               10.0 to 15.0
 
      4.   Swales shall be stabilized with bio-degradable erosion control
matting to permit establishment of permanent vegetation. Swales shall be of
such shape and size to effectively contain the one-hundred (100) year, Rational
Method design storm, or greater, and to conform to all other specifications of
the Township.
      5.   To minimize sheet flow of stormwater across lots located on the
lower side of roads or streets, and to divert flow away from building areas,
the cross-section of the street as constructed shall provide for parallel
ditches or swales or curb on the lower side which shall discharge only at
drainage easements, unless otherwise approved by the Township.
      6.   Gutters and swales adjacent to road paving shall be permitted to
carry a maximum flow of four (4) cubic feet per second prior to discharge away
from the street surface, unless it is proven to the satisfaction of the
Township by engineering calculations that the road slopes or other factors
would allow higher gutter or swale capacity.
      7.   Flows larger than those permitted in gutters and roadside swales may
be conveyed in swales outside the required road right-of-way in separate
drainage easements, or may be conveyed in pipes or culverts inside or outside
the required road right-of-way.
      8.   Existing and proposed swales shall be provided with underdrains as
deemed necessary by the Township should overland seepage result in potential
maintenance problems. Underdrains must discharge into a natural drainage
channel or stormwater management system.
      9.   Where drainage swales are used to divert surface waters away from
buildings, they shall be sodded, landscaped, or otherwise protected as required
and shall be of a slope, shape, and size conforming with the requirements of
the Township. Concentration of surface water runoff shall be permitted only in
swales, watercourses, retention or detention basins, bioretention areas, or
other areas designed to meet the objectives of this Ordinance.
   E.   Bridge and Culvert Design
   Any proposed bridge or culvert to convey flow within a perennial or
intermittent stream shall be designed in accordance with the following
principles:
      1.   Culverts and bridges shall be designed with an open bottom to
maintain natural sediment transport and bed roughness, avoiding acceleration of
water velocity above the natural (preexisting) condition. Rock (rip rap) lining
(native material if possible) shall be installed within the culvert as needed
to prevent erosion within the structure. Approximate top of rock lining must be
at the level of the existing stream bottom so as to maintain normal water level
and unimpeded movement of native animal species.
      2.   Bottom of opening shall, at a minimum, be designed to match the
bankfull channel condition in terms of width and depth. The cross-sectional
area of the bankfull channel (measured at a reference location upstream of the
structure) shall be matched with area in the crossing structure.
      3.   Above the bankfull elevation, the width shall increase a minimum of
thirty (30%) percent to disperse the energy of higher flow volumes and avoid
undermining of the supporting structure by secondary currents.
      4.   The total cross-sectional area of the structure opening must be
equal to, or greater than, the flood prone area (cross-sectional stream area at
a depth of twice the maximum bankfull depth, measured at a reference location
upstream of the structure). The flood prone area is approximately equal to the
area flooded by a 50-year return flood.
      5.   All bridges, culverts, and drainage channels shall be designed to
convey a flow rate equal to a one hundred (100) year, twenty-four (24) hour
storm as defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation
Service, Technical Release No. 55. All bridges and culverts shall
   be designed to convey the 100-year design storm without increasing the
extent and depth of the 100-year flood plain.
   F.   Storm Sewer Design
      1.   Design flow rate – The storm sewer system shall be designed to carry
the one hundred-(100) year frequency design storm peak flow rate. The drainage
area and runoff coefficient to each inlet shall be indicated on the stormwater
management plan. The 100-year flow rate shall be determined by the “Rational”
method formula:
   Q =    CIA where:
   Q =    Peak runoff rate measured in cubic feet per second (cfs)
   C =   Runoff coefficient - The coefficient of stormwater runoff includes
many variables, such as ground slope, ground cover, shape of drainage area,
etc.
   I =      Intensity – Average Rainfall Intensity in inches per hour for a
time equal to the time of concentration (in./hr.). Use 6.20 inches for the 100-
year event (Pennsylvania State Climatologist)
   A =   Area – Drainage area in acres (ac).
      2.   Consideration shall be given to future land use changes in the
drainage area in selecting the Rational (“C”) coefficient. For drainage areas
containing several different types of ground cover, a weighted value of “C”
shall be used.
      3.   In determining the peak flow rate to individual storm sewer inlets
(or other collection structures) the time of concentration method (as
referenced in Section
309) shall be used for inlet drainage areas in excess of one (1.0) acre, unless
otherwise approved by the Township. For inlet drainage areas less than one
(1.0) acre, a five (5) minute time of concentration shall be used unless
otherwise approved by the Township.
      4.   In determining the required design flow rate through a storm sewer
piping system, if a five (5) minute time of concentration (storm duration)
results in a pipe size exceeding a thirty (30) inch diameter pipe (or
equivalent flow area of 4.9 square feet), the time of concentration approach
(as defined herein) shall be used in determining storm duration.
      5.   Overflow System – An overflow system shall be provided to carry all
bypass flow and/or flow in excess of storm sewer design capacity, to the
detention basin (or other approved outlet point) when the capacity of the storm
sewer system is exceeded. Stormwater runoff will not be permitted to surcharge
from storm sewer structures.
   G.   Grading and Drainage
      1.   After completion of rough grading, a minimum of eight (8) inches of
topsoil shall be returned to remaining disturbed areas prior to final grading
and seeding.
      2.   Lots shall be graded to secure proper drainage away from buildings
and to prevent the collection of storm water in pools. Minimum two (2%) percent
slopes shall be maintained away from and around all structures. Separation
between the top of foundation wall (or slab) shall comply with Township
Building Code requirements.
      3.   Construction - The developer shall construct and/or install such
drainage facilities which are necessary to prevent erosion damage and to
satisfactorily carry off such surface waters to the nearest infiltration
structure, street, storm drain, or natural watercourse.
      4.   Excavation - No excavation shall be made with a cut face steeper in
slope than four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical (4:1 - 25 percent), except
under one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   The material in which the excavation is made is sufficiently
stable to sustain a slope of steeper than 4:1 and a written statement
(certification) from a Professional civil engineer, licensed in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and experienced in erosion control, to this effect
is submitted to the Township Engineer for review. This statement shall indicate
the site has been inspected and that the deviation from the slope specified
herein will not result in injury to persons or damage to property.
         (b)   A concrete, segmental block, or stone masonry wall, constructed
in accordance with requirements of the Township Zoning Ordinance and
Construction Codes, is provided to support the face of the excavation.
      5.   Fill - No fill shall be made which creates any exposed surface
steeper in slope than four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical (4:1 = 25
percent) except under one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   The fill is located so that settlement, sliding, or erosion will
not result in property damage or be a hazard to adjoining property, streets,
alleys, or buildings.
         (b)   A written statement from a Professional civil engineer, licensed
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and experienced in erosion control,
certifying the site has been inspected and that the proposed deviation from the
slope specified above will not endanger any property or result in property
damage, is submitted to and approved by the Township.
         (c)   A concrete, segmental block, or stone masonry wall, constructed
in accordance with requirements of the Township Zoning Ordinance and
Construction Codes, is provided to support the face of the excavation.
      6.   Slopes and Fences - The top or bottom edge of slopes shall be a
minimum of five (5) feet from property or right-of-way lines of streets or
alleys in order to permit the normal rounding of the edge without encroaching
on the abutting property. Where walls or slopes (steeper than two (2)
horizontal to one (1) vertical) are approved under the criteria in this
Ordinance, and are five (5) feet or more in height, a protective fence
conforming to Township Construction Codes shall be required at the top of the
wall (or bank).
      7.   Clean up - All lots must be kept free of any debris or nuisances
whatsoever during construction.
      8.   Design of erosion and sedimentation control facilities (particularly
stormwater/sediment basins) shall incorporate Best Management Practices as
defined herein.
      9.   Cut and fill operations shall be kept to a minimum. Wherever
feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected, and supplemented.
Cut and fills shall not endanger or otherwise adversely impact adjoining
property.
      10.   No grading equipment shall be permitted to be loaded and/or
unloaded on a public street, and no grading equipment shall be permitted to
travel on or across a public street unless licensed for operation on public
thoroughfares.
      11.   Grading equipment shall not be permitted to cross intermittent and
perennial streams. Temporary crossing shall only be permitted where application
is made, and approval is received, from the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection (where applicable), the Bucks County Conservation
District, and Springfield Township.
      12.   Design of energy dissipation for high volume and/or high velocity
discharge from storm sewer pipes and channels shall be in accordance with
Hydraulic Engineering Circular No. 14, "Hydraulic Design of Energy Dissipaters
for Culverts and Channels" as published by Department of Transportation, FHA,
when deemed necessary by the Township, and as approved by the Bucks County
Conservation District.
      13.   To control the dissemination of mud and dirt on to public roads and
driveways, tire cleaning areas constructed of AASHTO #1 stone (underlain by
geotextile structural fabric), at least fifty (50) feet in length shall be
installed at each point of access to the site and individual lots (upon
construction of internal streets in a binder condition). When deemed necessary
by the Township, washing stations shall also be set-up at every construction
entrance in order to wash mud and dirt from exiting vehicles. Appropriate
measures must be taken to control runoff from such locations. The developer
shall be responsible for the placement of appropriate signage identifying
construction entrances and washing stations. Construction entrances shall be
maintained by the developer during construction, as determined by the Township.
      14.   During construction activities, necessary measures for dust control
shall be exercised, including the application of water to higher traffic areas
of the site.
      15.   In the event any mud and/or debris is transported from the site
onto a public roadway, the debris shall be removed immediately and the roadway
swept and/or washed as deemed necessary by the Township at the owner's expense.
      16.   Adequate provision shall be made to prevent surface water from
damaging the cut face of excavation and the sloping surfaces of fills.
   H.   Stormwater Detention/Retention Basins
      1.   If permanent ponds (retention basin) are proposed, the developer
shall demonstrate that such ponds are designed to protect the public’s health
and safety.
      2.   During construction, duly authorized representatives of Springfield
Township may enter at any reasonable time upon any property within the Township
to investigate whether construction activity is in compliance with this
Ordinance.
      3.   When basins are provided, they shall be designed to utilize the
natural contours of the land whenever possible. When such design is not
practical, the construction of the basin shall utilize slopes as flat as
possible to blend the structure into the terrain.
      4.   Except with the one (1) year design storm, basins shall be designed
so that they return to normal conditions within approximately twelve (12) hours
after the termination of the storm, unless the Township determines that
downstream conditions may warrant other design criteria for stormwater release.
      5.   Landscaping and planting in and around the perimeter of basins shall
be provided. It shall be aesthetically pleasing and compatible with surrounding
land uses, and require minimum maintenance. Proposed planting shall also be in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance, the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, and the Zoning Ordinance.
      6.   If a stormwater management basin will serve as a temporary sediment
control device, the temporary sediment control measures shall be shown
including perforated riser pipes or standboxes, filter berms, clean-out stakes
and other measures as may be required by Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, Chapter 102 Regulations. Plans for such facilities
shall require Bucks County Conservation District approval prior to
implementation. Sedimentation basins shall be in place prior to any earthmoving
activities within their tributary drainage areas. A note identifying the above
criteria shall be required on the Record Plan of subdivisions and land
developments as well as in the development agreement with the Township.
      7.   Stormwater management basins shall be in place before construction
of any new impervious surfaces on the site.
      8.   Runoff shall not be directed to any infiltration structure until all
tributary drainage areas are stabilized.
      9.   Where permanent retention (pond) facilities are proposed, there
shall be a safety ledge, ten (10) feet wide, no greater than fifteen (15)
inches and no less than twelve (12) inches below the permanent water surface
level.
      10.   All basins shall have slopes of four (4) horizontal to one (1)
vertical (4:1 = 25 percent), or flatter on the basin’s outer berm and three (3)
horizontal to one (1) vertical or less on the basin’s inner berm. The top or
toe of any slope shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet from any property
line. The maximum difference between the top of berm elevation and the invert
elevation of the outlet structure shall be seven (7) feet.
      11.   All portions of a dry detention basin bottom (non wetland) shall
have a minimum slope of two (2) percent.
      12.   All basin embankments shall be placed in lifts not to exceed one
(1) foot in thickness and each lift shall be compacted to a minimum of 95% of
Modified Proctor Density as established by A.S.T.M. D-1557. Prior to proceeding
to the next lift, the compaction shall be checked by a Soils Engineer employed
by the applicant/developer. Compaction tests shall be run on the leading and
trailing edge of the berm along with the top of the berm. Verification of
required compaction shall be submitted to the Township prior to utilization of
any basin for stormwater management.
      13.   Emergency overflow facilities/spillway shall be provided with
basins in order to convey basin inflow in excess of design flows, out of the
basin, or in the event the outlet structure becomes blocked and is unable to
convey flow. Emergency spillways discharging over embankments shall be
constructed of reinforced concrete checker-blocks to protect the berm against
erosion. The checkerblocks shall be back-filled with topsoil and seeded.
Checkerblock lining shall extend to the toe of the embankment on the outside of
the berm, and shall extend to an elevation of three (3) feet below the spillway
crest on the inside of the berm. Vegetated spillways may be utilized for
spillways constructed entirely on undisturbed ground (i.e., not discharging
over fill material). A dense cover of vegetation shall be rapidly established
in spillways by sodding or seeding with a geotextile anchor. The minimum
capacity of all emergency spillways shall be equivalent to the peak flow rate
of the 100-year, post-development design storm (entering to the basin).
      14.   In all cases, the discharge end of the basin shall be provided with
a properly designed outlet control structure (headwall, orifice structure or
other approved flow control structure), culvert pipe, and endwall. Perforated
riser pipes alone, without provision for permanent outlet control structure (as
stated above) and culvert pipe are not permitted for permanent basins.
      15.   The minimum top of basin berm width (at the design elevation) shall
be ten (10) feet. A cut-off trench (keyway) of impervious material shall be
provided under all embankments that require fill material. The cut-off trench
shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet wide, three (3) feet deep and have side
slopes of one (1) horizontal to one (1) vertical.
      16.   The minimum freeboard through the emergency spillway shall be one
(1) foot. Freeboard is defined as the difference between the design flow
elevation through the spillway and the elevation of the top of the settled
basin berm.
      17.   Anti-seep collars shall be installed around the outfall pipe barrel
and shall be centered within the normal saturation zone of the berm. The anti-
seep collars and their connections to the pipe barrel shall be watertight. The
anti-seep collars shall be cast-in-place and extend a minimum of two (2) feet
beyond the outside of the principal pipe barrel. Precast collars shall be
permitted if approved by the Township. A minimum of two (2) collars shall be
installed on each basin outlet pipe.
      18.   A perforated riser, sized in accordance with Bucks County
Conservation District requirements, shall be provided at each basin outlet
structure (if more than one is to be utilized) for sediment control. Risers
shall not be removed until such time the entire area tributary to the basin has
been permanently stabilized and until approved by the Bucks County Conservation
District.
      19.   All basin outlet pipes shall be watertight reinforced concrete
having “O-Ring” joints. All joints shall be mortared.
      20.   A minimum of six (6) inches is required between the top of outlet
structure box and the emergency spillway elevation. Six (6) inches, minimum, is
also required between the 100-year water surface elevation and the top of
outlet structure box.
      21.   Energy dissipating devices (rock lining/rip rap, or other approved
materials) shall be provided at all basin outlets and shall be sized in
accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of
Soil and Water Conservation Publication, Erosion and Sediment Control Program
Manual, latest revision.
      22.   Stone gabion baskets shall not be permitted for use in construction
of detention/retention basins.
      23.   Access easement and stabilized drive to stormwater detention
facilities shall be provided for maintenance and operation. This access
easement shall be cleared and, when possible, be at least twenty (20) feet in
width. Multiple accesses shall be encouraged for major facilities. The
developer shall provide access easements and drives of reinforced concrete
checker-block (back-filled with topsoil and seeded) or other similar paver
acceptable to the Township Engineer, over a six (6) inch bed of compacted
PennDOT type 3A coarse aggregate (or approved equivalent). Accessways to basins
shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet wide and be no steeper in slope than ten
(10) feet horizontal to one (1) foot vertical (10:1). In addition, depressed
curb and concrete apron shall be provided where the accessway enters a street/
driveway and the stabilized driveway shall extend from the bottom of the
interior basin berm embankment to the point of access to the basin. Access
easement shall be owned and maintained by the individual lot owner(s) or
homeowner’s association but shall be established to permit access by
Springfield Township or its designee, for emergency inspection and/or
maintenance, at any reasonable time.
      24.   Split rail fence with wire mesh backing is required around all
detention or retention basins where directed by Springfield Township. Fence
shall consist of concrete posts (two or three rail), 4 feet high, with cedar
rails (8 feet to 10 feet long), and epoxy coated wire mesh (black or green in
color) installed 6 inches above finished grade. Each basin fence installation
shall include two points of access with ten (10) feet wide self closing, self
latching gates.
   I.   General Design Requirements
      1.   Prior to finish grading of a development site and final overlay of
streets, roads, and driveways, temporary measures, acceptable to the Township,
shall be taken to ensure that all runoff intended to be intercepted and
collected by an inlet or other facility, will be collected. The plan shall
include such details, notes, or specifications such as bituminous “eyebrows” at
inlets, diversion berms, etc.
      2.   Water originating from other than natural sources, such as air
conditioning units, sump pumps, or other dry weather flow, wherever practical
and possible, shall be connected to a storm sewer, or street drainage
structure, or other approved stormwater conveyance facility that is designed as
part of a stormwater management BMP.
      3.   All stormwater runoff and floodplain calculations and stormwater
management facilities design shall be prepared by a Qualified Professional
licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      4.   When subdivisions or land developments are submitted to the Township
for approval in sections, a complete storm sewer design for the proposed
subdivision and land development shall be submitted. The proposed design must
include the entire tract and not a portion.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 309 Calculation Methodology.
   A.   Stormwater runoff from all development sites shall be calculated using
either the rational method or a soil cover complex methodology.
   B.   Any stormwater runoff calculations shall use generally accepted
calculation technique that is based on the NRCS soil cover complex method.
Table 309-1 summarizes acceptable computation methods. Method must be selected
by the applicant based on the individual limitations and suitability of each
method for a particular site.
   The Rational Method may be used to estimate peak discharges from drainage
areas that contain less than seventy-five (75) acres. The Rational Method is
recommended for drainage areas under twenty-five (25) acres.
   Table 309-1. Acceptable Computation Methodologies For Stormwater Management
Plans
 
METHOD                    METHOD DEVELOPED BY        APPLICABILITY
TR-20 (or commercial                                 Applicable where use of
computer package based on USDA NRCS                  full hydrology computer
TR-20.                                               model is desirable or
                                                     necessary
TR-55 (or commercial                                 Applicable for land
computer package based on USDA NRCS                  development plans within
TR-55)                                               limitations described in
                                                     TR-55
                                                     Applicable where use of
HEC-1, HEC-HMS            US Army Corps of Engineers full hydrologic computer
                                                     model is desirable or
                                                     necessary
                                                     Applicable where use of a
                                                     hydrologic computer model
PSRM                      Penn State University      is desirable or necessary;
                                                     simpler than TR-20 or HEC-
                                                     1.
Rational Method (or                                  Applicable sites less than
commercial computer       Emil Kuichling (1889)      75 acres, or as approved
package based on Rational                            by the Township engineer.
Method)
                                                     Other computation
Other methods             Varies                     methodologies approved by
                                                     the Township engineer.
 
   C.   For the purposes of existing conditions flow rate determination for all
subdivision and land development applications, undeveloped land and existing
impervious surfaces shall be considered as “meadow” in good condition, unless
the natural ground cover generates a lower curve number (CN) or Rational ‘C’
value (e.g. forest).
   D.   Where uniform flow is anticipated, the Manning equation shall be used
for hydraulic computations, and to determine the capacity of open channels,
pipes, and storm sewers.
   E.   Outlet structures for stormwater management facilities shall be
designed to meet the performance standards of this Ordinance using any
hydraulic analysis technique or method accepted by the Township.
   F.   The design of any stormwater management facilities intended to meet the
performance standards of this Ordinance shall be verified by routing the design
storm hydrograph through these facilities using the Storage Indication Method.
For drainage areas greater than twenty (20) acres in area, the design storm
hydrograph shall be computed using a calculation method that produces a full
hydrograph.
   G.   The Township has the authority to require that computed existing runoff
rates be reconciled with field observations and conditions. If the design
professional engineer can substantiate through actual physical calibration that
more appropriate runoff and time-of-concentration values should be utilized at
a particular site, then appropriate variations may be made upon review and
recommendations of the Township Engineer. Calibration shall require detailed
gauge and rainfall data for the particular site in question.
   H.   The time of concentration (Tc) is the time required for water to flow
from the hydraulically most remote point of the drainage area to the point of
interest (design point). Use of the rational formula requires calculation of a
Tc for each design point within the drainage basin. Travel Time Estimation for
the rational method shall be based on NRCS Technical Release No. 55 (2nd
Edition). For design purposes the time of concentration may not be less than
five (5) minutes. Travel time (Tt) is the time it takes runoff to travel from
one location to another in a watershed (subreach) and is a component of time of
concentration. Tc is computed by summing all the travel times for consecutive
components of the drainage conveyance system.
   Water moves through a watershed as sheet flow, shallow concentrated flow,
open channel flow, or some combination of these. Sheet flow rates shall be
calculated using the NRCS TR-55 (1986) variation of the kinematic wave
equation. Sheet flow length may not exceed fifty (50) feet over paved surfaces
and one hundred and fifty (150) feet over unpaved surfaces. Maximum permitted
sheet flow length shall be one hundred and fifty (150) feet unless site
specific conditions exist (that can be demonstrated) that warrant an increase
of the sheet flow length. Under no circumstances shall sheet flow length exceed
300 feet. Shallow concentrated flow time and open channel flow time shall be
calculated using standard engineering methodologies.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 310 Standards During Land Disturbance.
   A.   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated and maintained during the
regulated earth disturbance activities (i.e., during construction) to meet the
purposes and requirements of this Ordinance and to meet all requirements under
Title 25 of the Pennsylvania Code and the Clean Streams Law. Various BMPs and
their design standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control
Program Manual (E&S Manual3), No. 363-2134-008, as amended and updated.
   B.   No Regulated Earth Disturbance activities within the Township shall
commence until approval by the Township of an Erosion and Sediment Control and
Grading Plan for construction activities.
   C.   Pursuant to 25 PA Code Chapter 92, a PADEP “NPDES Construction
Activities” permit is required for Regulated Earth Disturbance activities.
   D.   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for Regulated Earth Disturbance
activities from the appropriate PADEP regional office or Bucks County
Conservation District must be submitted to the Township.
   E.   A copy of the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and any required
permit, as required by PADEP regulations shall be available at the project site
at all times.
   F.   Additional erosion and sedimentation control design standards and
criteria that must be applied where infiltration BMPs are proposed include the
following:
      1.   Areas proposed for infiltration BMPs shall be protected from
sedimentation and compaction during the construction phase, so as to maintain
their maximum infiltration capacity. Thirty-three (33) inches Super Filter
Fabric Fence (or other approved protection mechanism) must be installed around
proposed infiltration areas to prevent encroachment and compaction by
construction equipment.
      2.   Infiltration BMPs shall not be constructed nor receive runoff until
the entire contributory drainage area to the infiltration BMP has received
final stabilization. If necessary, thirty-three (33) inches Super Filter Fabric
Fence (or other approved protection mechanism) must be installed in the
vicinity of infiltration area to prevent contamination by runoff containing
suspended sediment.
   G.   Peak discharges and discharge volumes from the site shall comply with
the appropriate sections above, with the following additions:
      1.   For purposes of calculating required detention storage volume during
land disturbance, peak discharge rates and volumes shall be calculated based
upon runoff coefficients for bare soils during the maximum extent of
disturbance from clearing, grading, and impervious surface installation, shown
on the development plan. Controls shall insure that the difference in volume
and rate of peak discharges before disturbance and during shall not exceed
those peak discharges and volumes required in Section
302 and
303 of this Ordinance. Detention storage during the period of land disturbance
and prior to establishment of permanent cover may require additional facilities
on a temporary basis. Such measures shall be located so as to preserve the
natural soil infiltration capacities of the planned infiltration areas.
Calculations based on the above parameters must be submitted to verify “during
construction” runoff rate does not exceed predevelopment runoff rate for the 1-
year frequency through 100-year frequency design storm events.
      2.   Wherever soils, topography, cut and fill or grading requirements, or
other conditions suggest substantial erosion potential during land disturbance,
the Township may require that the entire volume of all storms up to a 2-year
storm from the disturbed areas be retained on site and that special sediment
trapping facilities (such as check dams, etc.) be installed.
   H.   Areas of the site to remain undisturbed shall be protected against
encroachment from construction equipment/vehicles to maintain the existing
infiltration characteristics of the soil. Four feet high orange safety fence or
other similar protection fence approved by the Township must be installed
around the entire limit of disturbance/clearing prior to commencement of
earthmoving activities, and maintained until completion of all construction
activity.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 311 Water Quality Requirements After Regulated Earth Disturbance Activities
Are Complete.
   A.   No Regulated Earth Disturbance activities within the Township shall
commence until approval by the Township of a plan which demonstrates compliance
with State Water Quality Requirements after construction is complete.
   B.   The BMPs must be designed, implemented, and maintained to meet State
Water Quality Requirements and any other more stringent requirements as
determined by the Township.
   C.   To control post-construction stormwater impacts from Regulated Earth
Disturbance activities, State Water Quality Requirements may be met by BMPs,
including site design, which provide for replication of preconstruction
stormwater infiltration and runoff conditions, so that post-construction
stormwater discharges do not degrade the physical, chemical or biological
characteristics of receiving waters. As described in the PADEP Comprehensive
Stormwater Management Policy (#392-0300-002, September 28, 2002), this may be
achieved by the following:
      1.   Infiltration: replication of preconstruction stormwater infiltration
conditions.
      2.   Treatment: use of water quality treatment BMPs to filter out the
chemical and physical pollutants from the stormwater runoff, and
      3.   Streambank and Streambed Protection: management of volume and rate
of post-construction stormwater discharges to prevent physical degradation of
receiving waters (e.g. from scouring).
   D.   PADEP has regulations that require Townships to ensure design,
implementation, and maintenance of Best Management Practices (BMPs) that
control runoff from new development and redevelopment after Regulated Earth
Disturbance activities are complete. These requirements include the need to
implement post-construction stormwater BMPs with assurance of long-term
operations and maintenance of those BMPs.
   E.   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for Regulated Earth Disturbance
activities from the appropriate PADEP regional office must be submitted to the
Township.
   F.   BMP operations and maintenance requirements are described in Article
VII of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article IV.
Stormwater Management (SWM) Site Plan Requirements
§ 401 General Requirements.
   The following items shall be included in the SWM Site Plan:
      A.   Appropriate sections from the Township’s Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed
in preparing the SWM Site Plans. In instances where the Township lacks
Subdivision and Land Development regulations, the content of the SWM Site Plans
shall follow the county’s Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
      B.   The Township shall not approve any SWM Site Plan that is deficient
in meeting the requirements of this Ordinance. At its sole discretion and in
accordance with this Article, when a SWM Site Plan is found to be deficient,
the Township may either disapprove the submission and require a resubmission,
or in the case of minor deficiencies, the Township may accept submission with
modifications.
      C.   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPs, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan discussed in paragraph E.10
below.
      D.   The following signature block for the Township:
         “(Township official or designee), on this date (Signature date), has
reviewed and hereby certifies that the SWM Site Plan meets all design standards
and criteria of the Township Ordinance No. (number assigned to Ordinance).”
      E.   The SWM Site Plan shall provide the following information:
         1.   The overall stormwater management concept for the project.
         2.   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual4. A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or Karst topography, and other environmentally
sensitive areas such as brownfields.
         3.   Stormwater runoff design computations and documentation as
specified in this Ordinance, including the recommendations and general
requirements in Section
301.
         4.   When infiltration methods such as seepage pits, beds, or trenches
are proposed between any septic system and any facility used for stormwater
management, an analysis shall be submitted to verify that stormwater
infiltration shall not affect groundwater elevation at the septic drain field
site.
         5.   Expected project time schedule.
         6.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority.
         7.   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality, and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project.
         8.   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels, and swales.
         9.   SWM Site Plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed
on-lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells.
         10.   The SWM Site Plan shall include an O&M Plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities. This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for O&M as well as schedules and costs
for O&M activities.
         11.   All Stormwater Management Plans shall note that stormwater
management facilities are a permanent part of the development and shall not be
removed, altered, or modified.
         12.   A justification must be included in the SWM Site Plan if BMPs
other than green infrastructure methods and LID practices are proposed to
achieve the volume, rate and water quality controls under this Ordinance.
         13.   Whenever a stormwater management facility will be located in an
area underlain by limestone or dolomite (e.g., carbonate formations: refer
Section 509.2.I of the Zoning Ordinance) a geological evaluation of the
proposed location shall be conducted to determine susceptibility to sinkhole
formations. The design of all facilities over limestone formations shall
include measures to prevent ground water contamination and, where necessary,
sinkhole formation. Soils used for the construction of basins shall have low
erodibility factors (“K” factors). Installation of an impermeable liner shall
be required in detention or retention basins constructed over limestone
formations.
         14.   It shall be the developer’s responsibility to verify whether the
site is underlain by limestone formations. The following note shall be attached
to all stormwater management plans and signed and sealed by the developer’s
qualified professional “I, ____________, certify that the proposed detention/
retention basin (circle one) is/is not underlain by limestone or dolomite.”
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 402 SWM Site Plan Preparation.
   The plan for the project area shall be submitted on twenty-four (24) inch X
thirty-six (36) inch sheets and shall be prepared in a form that meets the
requirements for recording at the offices of the Recorder of Deeds of Bucks
County. The contents of the map(s) shall include but not be limited to:
      1.   The location of the project relative to highways, municipalities, or
other identifiable landmarks. The location map shall be at a scale of 1” =
800’.
      2.   Watershed within which the project is located (e.g. Delaware River
(North), Tohickon Creek, Saucon Creek, Unami Creek).
      3.   Existing contours at intervals of two (2) feet. In areas of steep
slopes (greater than twenty-five (25) percent), five (5) feet contours may be
used.
      4.   Existing streams, lakes, ponds, or other bodies of water within the
project area.
      5.   Other physical features including special flood hazard boundaries,
sinkholes, intermittent and perennial streams, existing drainage courses,
wetlands, areas of natural vegetation to be preserved, and the total extent of
the upstream area draining through the site.
      6.   The locations of all existing and proposed utilities, sanitary
sewers, and water lines located on the site and/or within fifty (50) feet of
property lines.
      7.   An overlay showing soil names and boundaries. The overlay shall
include a table on the map showing the recharge capabilities of each soil
represented onsite in inches per hour and describe their recharge or
infiltration capabilities.
      8.   Proposed changes to the land surface and vegetative cover, including
the type and amount of impervious area that would be added.
      9.   All existing and proposed stormwater management BMPs.
      10.   Proposed structures, roads, paved areas, and buildings. Where
pervious pavement is proposed for parking lots, recreational facilities, non-
dedicated streets, or other areas, pavement construction specifications shall
be noted on the plan.
      11.   Final contours at intervals at two (2) feet. In areas of steep
slopes (greater than twenty-five (25) percent), five (5) feet contour intervals
may be used.
      12.   The name of the development, the name and address of the owner of
the property, and the name of the individual or firm preparing the plan.
      13.   The date of submission.
      14.   A graphic and written scale of one (1) inch equals no more than
fifty (50) feet. For tracts of twenty (20) acres or more, the scale may be one
(1) inch equals no more than one hundred (100) feet.
      15.   A North arrow.
      16.   The total tract boundary and size with distances marked to the
nearest foot and bearings to the nearest degree.
      17.   Existing and proposed land use(s).
      18.   A key map showing all existing man-made features beyond the
property boundary that may be affected by the project.
      19.   Horizontal and vertical profiles of all open channels, including
hydraulic capacity.
      20.   Overland drainage paths.
      21.   A twenty (20) feet wide access easement around all stormwater BMPS
and management facilities that would provide ingress to and egress from a
public right-of-way.
      22.   A note on the plan indicating the location and responsibility for
maintenance of stormwater management facilities that would be located off-site.
All off-site facilities shall meet the performance standards and design
criteria specified in this Ordinance.
      23.   A construction detail of any improvements made to sinkholes and the
location of all notes to be posted, as specified in this Ordinance.
      24.   A statement on the plan, signed by the landowner, acknowledging the
stormwater BMPS and management facilities to be a permanent fixture that can be
altered or removed only after approval of a revised plan by the Township, which
shall be recorded with the record plan and which shall be applicable to all
future landowners.
      25.   The location of all erosion and sedimentation control facilities.
      26.   The following signature block for the design engineer:
         “(Qualified Professional), on this date (date of signature), has
reviewed and hereby certifies that the stormwater management plan meets all
design standards and criteria of the Springfield Township Stormwater Management
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 403 Plan Submission.
   For all activities regulated by this Ordinance, the steps below shall be
followed for submission. For any activities that require a PADEP joint permit
application and regulated under Chapter 102 (Erosion and Sediment Control),
Chapter 105 (Dam Safety and Waterway Management), or Chapter 106 (Floodplain
Management) of PADEP's Rules and Regulations, require a PADOT highway occupancy
permit, or require any other permit under applicable local, state, or federal
regulations, the permit(s) shall be part of the plan submission.
      A.   The SWM Site Plan shall be submitted by the developer as part of the
Preliminary plan submission for the regulated activity.
      B.   The number of copies and digital data formats of the SWM Site Plan
required to be submitted to the Township, shall be determined by the Township.
      C.   Distribution of the SWM Site Plan shall be determined by the
Township. The distribution list shall include Springfield Township Engineer and
any other agencies or entities designated by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 404 Plan Review.
   A.   SWM Site Plans shall be reviewed by the Township for consistency with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
   B.   The Township shall notify the applicant in writing within 45 days
whether the SWM Site Plan is approved or disapproved. If the SWM Site Plan
involves a Subdivision and Land Development Plan, the notification shall occur
within the time period allowed by the Municipalities Planning Code (90 days).
If a longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation, or
ordinance, the applicant will be so notified by the Township.
   C.   For any SWM Site Plan that proposes to use any BMPs other than green
infrastructure and LID practices to achieve the volume and rate controls
required under this Ordinance, the Township will not approve the SWM Site Plan
unless it determines that green infrastructure and LID practices are not
practicable.
   D.   If the Township disapproves the SWM Site Plan, the Township will state
the reasons for the disapproval in writing. The Township also may approve the
SWM Site Plan with conditions and, if so, shall provide the acceptable
conditions for approval in writing.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 405 Retention of Plans at Project Site.
   A set of design plans approved by the Township shall be on file at the site
throughout the duration of the development activity. Periodic inspections may
be made by the Township or designee during development activities.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 406 Adherence to Approved Plan.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to undertake any regulated activity on
any property except as provided for in the approved stormwater management plan
and pursuant to the requirements of this Ordinance. It shall be unlawful to
alter or remove any BMP required by the stormwater management plan pursuant to
this Ordinance or to allow the property to remain in a condition which does not
conform to the approved stormwater management plan.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 407 Modification of Plans.
   A modification to a submitted SWM Site Plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as stated on the SWM
Site Plan as determined by the Township shall require a resubmission of the
modified SWM Site Plan in accordance with this Article.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 408 Resubmission of Disapproved SWM Site Plans.
   A disapproved SWM Site Plan may be resubmitted with the revisions addressing
the Township’s concerns, to the Township in accordance with this Article. The
applicable review fee must accompany a resubmission of a disapproved SWM Site
Plan.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 409 Authorization to Construct and Term of Validity.
   The Township’s approval of an SWM Site Plan authorizes the regulated
activities contained in the SWM Site Plan for a maximum term of validity of 5
years following the date of approval. The Township may specify a term of
validity shorter than 5 years in the approval for any specific SWM Site Plan.
Terms of validity shall commence on the date the Township signs the approval
for an SWM Site Plan. If an approved SWM Site Plan is not completed according
to Section
406 within the term of validity, then the Township may consider the SWM Site
Plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. SWM Site Plans that are
considered disapproved by the Township shall be resubmitted in accordance with
Section
408 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 410 As-Built Plans, Completion of Certificate, and Final Inspections.
   A.   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWMP BMPs included in the approved SWM Site Plan. The as-built plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the Township.
   B.   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications. The
latitude and longitude coordinates for all permanent SWM BMPs must also be
submitted, at the central location of the BMPs. If any licensed and qualified
professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a licensed qualified
professional must sign the completion certificate.
   C.   After receipt of the completion certification by the Township, the
Township will conduct a final inspection.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 411 Occupancy Permit.
   An occupancy permit shall not be issued unless the stormwater management
facilities approved for the lot have been installed and an as-built plan has
been received and found satisfactory by the Township.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article V.
Inspections
§ 501 Schedule of Inspections.
   A.   The Township Engineer or his assignee shall inspect all phases of the
installation of the permanent stormwater management facilities.
   B.   During any stage of the work, if the Township Engineer determines that
temporary or permanent erosion and sedimentation control or stormwater
management BMPs are not being implemented in accordance with the approved
stormwater management plan and this Ordinance, the Township shall issue a “Stop
work” order until all defects have been corrected.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 502 Right of Entry.
   A.   During construction, duly authorized representatives of the Township
may enter at reasonable times upon any property within the Township to inspect
the implementation, condition, or operation and maintenance of the stormwater
BMPs to investigate whether construction activity is in compliance with this
Ordinance. Unless extraordinary circumstances dictate otherwise, entry should
be limited to the hours between 7:00AM and 7:00PM.
   B.   BMP owners and operators shall allow persons working on behalf of the
Township ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
determining compliance with this Ordinance.
   C.   Persons working on behalf of the Township shall have the right to
temporarily locate on any BMP in the Township such devices as are necessary to
conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water discharge.
   D.   Delaying or denying entry to the Township for the purposes herein shall
be a violation of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article VI.
Fees and Expenses
§ 601 SWM Site Plan Review Fee.
   The Applicant shall pay all fees and the costs incurred by the Township for
any legal, geological, engineering or other outside consultants or agencies.
      A.   The Township shall establish a stormwater permit review fee by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The permit fee is non-refundable.
      B.   The Township shall establish a refundable escrow amount by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The received escrow shall be used to
pay costs incurred by the Township’s legal, engineering, and other consulting
experts.
      C.   The Township Treasurer has the authority to demand replenishment of
the escrow in the event the remaining balance falls to 25% or less of the
initial amount, and to notify Township consultants to stop work on the review
until such time as the escrow is brought current and all past due bills are
paid.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 602 Expenses Covered by Fees.
   The fees required by this Ordinance shall, at a minimum, cover the
following:
      A.   Administrative/clerical costs.
      B.   Review of the SWM Site Plan by the Township and Township Engineer.
      C.   Site inspections by the Township staff and/or Township Engineer.
      D.   Inspection of stormwater management facilities and stormwater
management improvements during construction.
      E.   Final inspection upon completion of the stormwater management
facilities and stormwater management improvements presented in the stormwater
management plan.
      F.   Any additional work required to enforce any permit provisions
regulated by this Ordinance, correct violations, and ensure proper completion
of stipulated remedial actions.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 603 Itemization of Costs.
   Expenses incurred by the Township and charged to the applicant pursuant to
Section
602 of this Ordinance shall be itemized. A copy of the itemized costs will be
provided by the Township to the applicant.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article VII.
Maintenance Responsibilities
§ 701 Performance Guarantee.
   For SWM Site Plans that involve subdivision and land development, the
applicant shall provide a financial guarantee to the Township for the timely
installation and proper construction of all erosion and sediment control
measures, stormwater management controls as required by the approved SWM Site
Plan and this Ordinance in accordance with provisions of Sections 509, 510, and
511 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 702 Maintenance Responsibilities.
   A.   The SWM Site Plan for a development site shall contain an operation and
maintenance plan prepared by the design engineer. The operation and maintenance
plan shall outline required routine maintenance actions and schedules necessary
to insure proper operation of the BMPs and shall be subject to review and
approval of the Township.
   B.   The SWM Site Plan for a development site shall establish
responsibilities for the continuing operation and maintenance of all proposed
stormwater control facilities, consistent with the following principles:
      1.   If a development consists of structures or lots that are to be
separately owned and in which streets, sewers, and other public improvements
are to be dedicated to the Township, stormwater BMPs may also be dedicated to
and maintained by the Township, if accepted by the Township.
      2.   If a development site is to be maintained in a single ownership or
if storm sewers and other stormwater management improvements are to be
privately owned and maintained, then the ownership and maintenance of
stormwater BMPs shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property or
easement on which the facility is located.
   C.   The Board of Supervisors, upon recommendation of the Township Engineer,
shall make the final determination on the continuing maintenance
responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM Site Plan. The Board of
Supervisors reserves the right anytime to accept the ownership and operating
responsibility for any or all of the stormwater BMPs. The right of the Township
to accept ownership in the future shall be stated in the Maintenance Agreement
(refer Section
703).
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 703 Operation and Maintenance Agreements.
   A.   Prior to final approval of the SWM Site Plan, the property owner shall
sign and record an Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Agreement (see Appendix A)
covering all stormwater control facilities which are to be privately owned.
      1.   The owner, successor and assigns shall maintain all facilities in
accordance with the approved maintenance schedule in the O&M Agreement.
      2.   The owner shall convey to the Township conservation easements to
assure access for periodic inspections by the Township and maintenance, as
necessary.
      3.   The owner shall keep on file with the Township the name, address,
and telephone number of the person or company responsible for maintenance
activities; in the event of a change, new information shall be submitted by the
owner to the Township within ten (10) working days of the change.
   B.   The owner is responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the SWM
BMPs. If the owner fails to adhere to the O&M Agreement, the Township may
perform the services required and charge the owner appropriate fees. Non-
payment of fees may result in a lien against the property.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 704 Stormwater Management Easements.
   A.   Stormwater management easements shall be provided by the property owner
if necessary for: (1) access for facility inspections and maintenance, or (2)
preservation of stormwater runoff conveyance, infiltration, and detention areas
and facilities, including flood routes for the 100-year storm event. The
purpose of the easement shall be specified in the maintenance agreement signed
by the property owner.
   B.   Stormwater management easements are required for all areas used for
off-site stormwater control, unless a waiver is granted by the Township.
   C.   Easements shall be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds prior to
issuance of a building permit or recordation of a subdivision or land
development plan.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 705 Municipal Stormwater Maintenance Fund.
   A.   If stormwater BMPs are accepted by the Township for dedication, persons
installing stormwater BMPs shall be required to pay a specified amount to the
Township Stormwater Maintenance Fund to help defray costs of periodic
inspections. The amount of the deposit shall be determined as follows:
      1.   If the BMP is to be owned and maintained by the Township, the
deposit shall cover the estimated costs for maintenance and inspections
required pursuant to Section 706 for ten (10) years. The Township engineer will
establish the estimated costs upon review of information submitted by the
applicant.
      2.   If the stormwater management facilities and Best Management
Practices is to be owned and maintained by a private entity, the deposit shall
cover the estimated costs for inspections for ten (10) years. The Township
engineer will establish the estimated costs upon review of information
submitted by the applicant.
      3.   The amount of the deposit to the fund shall be converted to present
value of the annual series of payments. The Township engineer shall determine
the present worth equivalents, which shall be subject to the approval of the
Board of Supervisors.
   B.   If a BMP is proposed that also serves as a recreation facility (e.g.
ballfield, pond), the Township may, but is not required to, reduce or waive the
amount of the maintenance fund deposit based upon the value of the land for
public recreation purpose.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article VIII
Prohibitions
§ 801 Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water to enter a regulated small MS4 or to enter the surface waters of
this Commonwealth is prohibited.
   B.   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into a regulated
small MS4, or discharges into waters of this Commonwealth, which are not
composed entirely of stormwater, except (1) as provided in paragraph C below
and (2) discharges authorized under a state or federal permit.
   C.   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined to
be significant contributors to pollution of a regulated small MS4 or to the
waters of this Commonwealth.
      1.   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
      2.   Discharges from potable water sources including water line flushing
and fire hydrant flushing, if such discharges do not contain detectable
concentrations of Total Residual Chlorine (TRC).
      3.   Non-contaminated irrigation water, water from lawn maintenance,
landscape drainage and flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
      4.   Diverted stream flows and springs.
      5.   Non-contaminated pumped ground water and water from foundation and
footing drains and crawl space pumps.
      6.   Non-contaminated HVAC condensation and water from geothermal
systems.
      7.   Residential (i.e. not commercial) vehicle wash water where cleaning
agents are not utilized.
      8.   Non-contaminated hydrostatic test water discharges, if such
discharges do not contain detectable concentrations of TRC.
   D.   In the event that the Township or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in Subsection C significantly contribute pollutants to a
regulated small MS4 or to the waters of this Commonwealth, the Township or DEP
will notify the responsible person(s) to cease the discharge.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 802 Roof Drains and Sump Pumps.
   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to infiltration or vegetative
BMPs wherever feasible.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 803 Alteration of SWM BMPs.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape, or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas, or structures that were installed as a requirement of this
Ordinance without the written approval of the Township.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Article IX.
Enforcement and Penalties
§ 901 Right-of-Entry.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Township or its designated
agent may enter at reasonable times upon any property within the Township to
inspect the condition and maintenance of stormwater structures and facilities
in regard to any aspect regulated by this Ordinance. Unless extraordinary
circumstances dictate otherwise, entry shall be limited to the hours between 7:
00AM and 7:00PM.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 902 Inspection.
   The landowner or the owner’s designee (including the Township for dedicated
and owned facilities) shall inspect SWM BMPs, facilities and/or structures
installed under this Ordinance which required an NPDES Permit (earth
disturbance of one acre or greater) according to the following frequencies, at
a minimum to ensure the BMPs, facilities and/or structures continue to function
as intended:
      1.   Annually for the first 5 years.
      2.   Once every 3 years thereafter.
      3.   During or immediately after the cessation of a 10-year or greater
storm.
   Inspections should be conducted during or immediately following
precipitation events. A written inspection report shall be created to document
each inspection. The inspection report shall contain the date and time of the
inspection, the individual(s) who completed the inspection, the location of the
BMP, facility or structure inspected observations on performance, and
recommendations for improving performance, if applicable. Inspection reports
shall be submitted to the Township within 30 days following completion of the
inspection.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 903 Enforcement.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any Regulated Activity
except as provided in an approved SWM Site Plan, unless specifically exempted
in Section
105.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to violate Section
703 of this Ordinance.
   C.   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM Site Plan are the
responsibility of the Township.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 904 Suspension and Revocation.
   A.   Any approval or permit issued by the Township pursuant to this
Ordinance may be suspended or revoked for:
      1.   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM Site Plan or O&M Agreement.
      2.   A violation of any provision of this Ordinance or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule, or regulation relating to the Regulated
Activity.
      3.   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the Regulated Activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution, or endangers the life or property of others.
      4.   Lack of project completion within the permit period.
   B.   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the Township when:
      1.   The Township has inspected and approved the corrections to the
violation that caused the suspension.
      2.   The Township is satisfied that the violation has been corrected.
   C.   An approval that has been revoked by the Township cannot be reinstated.
The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of this
Ordinance.
   D.   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health, or
property, at its sole discretion, the Township may provide a limited time
period for the owner to correct the violation. In these cases, the Township
will provide the owner, or the owner’s designee, with a written notice of the
violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct the violation.
If the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed time period, the
Township may revoke or suspend any or all applicable approvals and permits
pertaining to any provision of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 905 Penalties.
   A.   Anyone violating the provisions of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $600.00 for each violation, recoverable with costs. Each day the violation
continues shall be a separate offense and penalties shall be cumulative.
   B.   In addition, the Township may institute injunctive, mandamus, or any
other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement
of this Ordinance. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to
issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus, or
other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 906 Public Nuisance.
   A.   The violation of any provision of this Ordinance is hereby deemed a
public nuisance.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 907 Appeals.
   A.   Appeals from the determination of the zoning officer, the township
engineer or the township designee in the administration of this Ordinance that
relate to applications for land development under Article V and VII of the
Municipalities Planning Code shall be made to the Board of Supervisors within
thirty (30) days of that determination or decision, pursuant to Section 909.1
(b)(6) of the Municipalities Planning Code.
   B.   Appeals from the determination of the zoning officer, the township
engineer or the township designee in the administration of this Ordinance that
do not relate to applications for land development under Article V and VII of
the Municipalities Planning Code shall be made to the Zoning Hearing Board
within thirty (30) days of that determination or decision, pursuant to Section
909.1(a)(9) of the Municipalities Planning Code.
   C.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Supervisors or the
Zoning Hearing Board may appeal to the Bucks County Court of Common Pleas
within thirty (30) days of the decision of the Board of Supervisors or the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-12-2017)
Appendix A to the Stormwater Management Ordinance
   Operation and Maintenance Agreement (O&M)
   Stormwater Management Best Management Practices (SWM BMPs)
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this day of ____, 20____, by and between
__________________ (hereinafter the “Landowner”), and Springfield Township,
Bucks County, Pennsylvania (hereinafter “Township”);
WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded by
deed in the land records of Bucks County, Pennsylvania, Deed Book _______at
page ______. (hereinafter “Property”).
WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the Property; and
WHEREAS, the SWM BMP Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan approved by the
Township (hereinafter referred to as the “O&M” Plan”) for the property
identified herein, which is attached hereto as Appendix A and made part hereof,
as approved by the Township, provides for management of stormwater within the
confines of the Property through the use of BMPs; and
WHEREAS, the Township and the Landowner, his successors and assigns, agree that
the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Township and the
protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-site SWM BMPs be
constructed and maintained on the property; and
WHEREAS, the Township requires, through the implementation of the SWM Site
Plan, that SWM BMPs as required by said SWM Site Plan and the Township
Stormwater Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and
maintained by the Landowner, successors, and assigns.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
1.   The Landowner shall construct the BMPs in accordance with the plans and
specifications identified in the SWM Site Plan.
2.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the BMPs as shown on the SWM Site
Plan in good working order in accordance with the specific operation and
maintenance requirements noted on the approved O&M Plan.
3.   The Landowner hereby grants permission to the Township, its authorized
agents and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable times and upon
presentation of proper credentials, to inspect the BMPs whenever necessary.
Whenever possible, the Township shall notify the Landowner prior to entering
the property.
4.   In the event the Landowner fails to operate and maintain the BMPs per
paragraph 2, the Township or its representatives may enter upon the Property
and take whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said BMP(s). It is
expressly understood and agreed that the Township is under no obligation to
maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event shall this Agreement be
construed to impose any such obligation on the Township.
5.   In the event the Township, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work of
any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor, use of
equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the Landowner shall reimburse the
Township for all expenses (direct and indirect) incurred within 10 days of
receipt of invoice from the Township.
6.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the on-site BMPs by the Landowner; provided, however that this
Agreement shall not be deemed to create any additional liability of any party
for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater runoff.
7.   The Landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns, and other
successors in interests, shall release the Township from all damages,
accidents, casualties, occurrences, or claims which might arise or be asserted
against said employees and representatives from the construction, presence,
existence, or maintenance of the BMP(s) by the Landowner or Township.
8.   The Township intends to inspect the BMP’s at a minimum of once every three
years to ensure their continued functioning.
   This Agreement shall be recorded at the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant running with the
property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on the Landowner, his
administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successors in
interests, in perpetuity.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
(SEAL)
For the Township:
______________________________________
For the Landowner:
_____________________________________
ATTEST:
County of Bucks, Pennsylvania
   I, __________________________________, a Notary Public in and for the County
and State aforesaid, whose commission expires on the____ day of _____________,
20_____, do hereby certify that ________________________________ whose name(s)
is/are signed to the foregoing Agreement bearing date of the ______ day
of___________________, 20_____, has acknowledged the same before me in my said
County and State.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS _____ day of _____________________, 20_____.
______________________________________   ______________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC                      (SEAL)
APPENDIX B
RELEASE RATE DISTRICT MAP
The RELEASE RATE DISTRICT MAP may also be viewed in PDF: HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1449.png]
 
APPENDIX C
SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FOR SMALL RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS
Projects eligible for this method.
1.   Did your lot exist prior to September 10, 2002?
2.   Is the use of your lot a single family detached dwelling?
3.   Are you proposing 2500 sq. ft. or less of new impervious surface?
4.   Will you disturb less than 5000 sq. ft. of earth during construction?
5.   The project does not qualify for a Section
105.B exemption, or it did qualify but required you to meet water quality
standards in Section
105.D.2?
6.   The project is not a subdivision?
If you answered yes to each of the above, you may use this method.
Are professional services necessary to meet these requirements?
This appendix has been developed to assist the individual homeowner in meeting
the water quality and groundwater recharge goals of the Stormwater Management
Ordinance. If the guidelines are followed, the homeowner will not require
professional services to comply with these water quality and groundwater
recharge goals.
What do I need to send to Springfield Township?
Even though a formal drainage plan is not required for individual lot owners, a
brief description of the proposed infiltration facilities, including types of
material to be used, total impervious areas and volume calculations, and a
sketch plan showing the following information shall be submitted to the
Township prior to construction.
   •   Locations and dimensions of proposed structures, driveways or other
paved areas with impervious surface area in square feet. (See “How to Draw A
Plot Plan”).
   •   Location of any existing or proposed onsite septic system and/or potable
water wells.
   •   The direction of flow (slope of the ground)
   •   Bucks County Conservation District erosion and sediment control
“Adequacy” letter (for projects over 1000 square feet of earth disturbance).
Determination of Facility Dimensions
Step 1 – Determine how many controls are needed (see Fig C-1). Applicant can
utilize single or multiple controls to fit topography, drainage and impervious
requirements. The added stormwater runoff generated from new impervious surface
must enter into a control facility, either via surface flow or piping.
Step 2 – Determine Total Impervious Surfaces Served by Each Proposed Facility
(Fig C-1)
Impervious area calculations must include all areas on the lot proposed to be
covered by roof area or pavement which would prevent rain from naturally
percolating into the ground, including sidewalks, driveways or parking areas.
Sidewalks, driveways or patios that are constructed with turf pavers are not
included in this calculation. Gravel is impervious.
In Figure C-1, the applicant is using 2 stormwater control facilities because
of topography; a dry well for the house and a trench drain for the driveway.
The controls must be placed so the water enters it.
 
House (front roof)        12 ft. x 48 ft. = 576 sq. ft.
House (rear roof)         12 ft. x 48 ft. = 576 sq. ft.
Total for house (drywell)                   1152 sq.ft. to Dry Well
Driveway                  12 ft. x 50 ft. = 600 sq. ft.
Parking Pad               12 ft. x 12 ft. = 144 sq. ft.
Walkway                   4 ft. x 20 ft.  = 80 sq. ft.
                                            824 sq. ft. to trench
 
Step 3 – Determine Required Infiltration Volume (Rv) using the following
equation for each facility.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1451.png]
Step 4 – Add required infiltration voids (spaces between stone) by dividing Rv
by 40%
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1453.png]
Step 5 - Compute linear dimensions (L x W x D) for each facility.
For dry wells D = 3.5 ft (in this example).Then compute the square root of
Total Facility Volume/D.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1455.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1457.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1459.png]
 
This trench has to be at least 40 ft long based on topography so the water
flows into it.
117 ft/40 ft = 3 ft
So the trench will be: 40ft long x 3ft wide x 3ft deep
Construction
The appropriate type of facility depends on the amount of required infiltration
volume and amount of available land. More than one method may be implemented on
a site, depending on site constraints. Water flows downhill. The increased
runoff from new impervious surfaces must enter into the facility via gravity
flow.
Dry Well Construction (see Figure C-2)
Dry wells are effective methods to infiltrate runoff using roof leaders. These
facilities must be located to reduce potential basement seepage problems but
not less than a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the building foundation. They
should be kept away from septic drainage areas and wells. A dry well may be
either a structural prefabricated chamber or an excavated pit filled with
aggregate. Dry wells shall not be constructed until all other areas of the site
are stabilized, to avoid clogging. During construction, compaction of the
subgrade soil shall be avoided, and construction may be performed with only
light machinery. Depth of dry wells in excess of three and one-half (3-1/2) ft
are prohibited, unless warranted by soil conditions demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Township Engineer. Clean gravel fill should average one and
one half to three (1.5-3.0) inches in diameter.
Infiltration Trench Construction (see Figure C-3)
An infiltration trench is a long, narrow, rock- filled trench with no outlet
that receives stormwater runoff. Runoff is stored in the void space between the
stones and infiltrates through the bottom and into the soil matrix.
Pretreatment using buffer strips, swales, or detention basins is important for
limiting amounts of coarse sediment entering the trench which can clog and
render the trench ineffective.
Post Construction Maintenance
Dry wells should be inspected at least four (4) times annually as well as after
large storm events. Trenches should be inspected after every large rain event
to ensure leaves and debris have not clogged the surface stone and that the
backstop berm is intact and functioning.
Figure C-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1461.png]
 
Figure C-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1463.png]
Figure C-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1465.png]
Note: In both examples shown above, a leaf/debris collection inlet (not shown
in the sample drawings) must be installed between a roof downspout/drain and
the dry well or infiltration bed.
Field Conditions/Construction 
Construction of the stormwater management facility must be observed by the
Township Engineer pursuant to Section
501 of this Ordinance. If soil conditions indicate a limiting zone (e.g high
water table, depth to bedrock) will encroach within the infiltration/dry well,
the stormwater management facility construction details (width/depth/length)
must be revised as determined by the Township Engineer and field documented.
The Township Engineer will inspect at least twice during construction:
   1.   After excavation and with geotextile installed, but before stone is
added.
   2.   After facility is complete, but not backfilled.
APPENDIX D
STORMSEWER BEDDING/BACKFILL REQUIREMENTS[IMAGE]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1467.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1469.png]
 
APPENDIX E
DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA
DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA)
FOR CARBONATE GEOLOGY AREAS (ONLY)
ROOFTOP DISCONNECTION
When rooftop downspouts are directed to a pervious area that allows for
infiltration, filtration, and increased time of concentration, the rooftop may
qualify as completely or partially DIA, and a portion of the impervious rooftop
area may be excluded from the calculation of total impervious area.
A rooftop is considered to be completely or partially disconnected if it meets
the requirements listed below:
   -   The contributing area of a rooftop discharge is 500 square feet or less,
and
   -   The soil, in proximity of the roof water discharge area, is not
designated as hydrologic soil group “D” or equivalent, and
   -   The overland flow path from roof water discharge area has a positive
slope 2% to of 5%.
For designs that meet these requirements, the portion of the roof that may be
considered disconnected depends on the length of the overland path as
designated in Table F.1.
Table F.1: Partial Rooftop Disconnection
Length of Pervious Flow Path* Roof Area Treated as Disconnected
(ft.)                         (% of contributing area)
0 – 14                      0
15 – 29                     20
30 – 44                     40
45 – 59                     60
60 – 74                     80
75 or more                    100
 
*Flow path cannot include impervious surfaces and must be at least 15 feet from
any impervious surfaces.
If the discharge is concentrated at one or more discrete points, a gravel strip
or other spreading device is required to develop sheet flow.
PAVED SURFACE DISCONNECTION
When runoff from paved surfaces is directed to a pervious area that allows for
infiltration, filtration, and increased time of concentration, the contributing
pavement area may qualify as disconnected. This applies to only small or narrow
pavement surfaces such as driveways and walkways. Paved surfaces may be
considered disconnected if they, or the adjacent areas, meet the following
requirements:
   -   The contributing area of paved surface discharge is 500 square feet or
less, and
   -   the contributing flow path over the impervious area is not more than 75
feet, and
   -   the length of overland flow is greater than or equal to the maximum flow
length over the impervious surface, and
   -   the slope of the contributing impervious surface area and overland area
is 2% to 5%, and
   -   if the discharge is concentrated at one or more discrete points, a
gravel strip or other spreading device is required to develop sheet flow. For
non-concentrated discharges along the edge of the pavement, this requirement is
waived; however, there must be a provision for the establishment of vegetation
along the pavement edge and temporary stabilization of the area until
vegetation becomes stabilized.
   -   the slope of the contributing impervious surface area and overland area
is 2% to 5%, and
   -   if the discharge is concentrated at one or more discrete points, a
gravel strip or other spreading device is required to develop sheet flow. For
non-concentrated discharges along the edge of the pavement, this requirement is
waived; however, there must be a provision for the establishment of vegetation
along the pavement edge and temporary stabilization of the area until
vegetation becomes stabilized.
APPENDIX F
REFERENCES
1.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS). National Engineering Handbook. Part 630: Hydrology, 1969-2001.
Originally published as the National Engineering Handbook, Section 4:
Hydrology. Available from the NRCS online at: http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/.
2.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
1986. Technical Release 55: Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, 2nd Edition.
Washington, D.C.
3.   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-0300-002
(December 2006), as amended and updated. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
4.   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-21234-008
(March 31, 2012), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution
Control Program Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
5.   U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies
Center. 2004-2006. Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, Silver Spring, Maryland. Internet address: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds.
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
153.01   Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
§ 153.01 SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   The Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance is set forth as
Appendix A of this Chapter 153.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23-1975; Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 171, passed 6-24-
2014; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014; Ord. 175, passed 1-5-2015; Ord. 178, passed
2-24-2015; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Article 1
General Provisions
   §
101   Short Title
   §
102   Purpose
   §
103   Application of Regulations
   §
104   Interpretation and Conflict
   §
105   Effective Date
Article 2
Definitions
   §
201   Construction
   §
202   Terminology
Article 3
Submission Procedures
   §
301   General Procedure
   §
302   Fee Schedule
   §
303   Sketch Plan
   §
304   Lot Line Adjustment Procedure
   §
305   Minor Subdivision Procedure
   §
306   Major Subdivision and Land Development Procedure
   §
307   Time Limitation of Plan Approval
   §
308   Modifications/Waivers
Article 4
Plan Requirements
   §
401   Presubmission Sketch Plan
   §
402   Lot Line Adjustment Subdivision and Minor Subdivision
   §
403   Preliminary Plan
   §
404   Final Plan (Record)
   §
405   As-Built Plans
   §
406   Traffic Impact Study
   §
407   Sewage Facilities
   §
408   Water Resources Impact Study
   §
409   Carbonate Geology Study
   §
410   Wetland Delineation
   §
411   Narrative Summary of Proposed Development
Article 5
General Design Standards
   §
501   Application
   §
502   General Standards
   §
503   Reserved
   §
504   Blocks and Lots
   §
505   Street; General
   §
506   Street Standards
   §
507   Street Name and Stop Signs
   §
508   Streetlights
   §
509   Cul-de-sac Streets
   §
510   Street Alignment
   §
511   Street Grades
   §
512   Street Intersections
   §
513   Driveways
   §
514   Curbs
   §
515   Sidewalks and Bicycle/Pedestrian Paths
   §
516   Landscaping and Street Trees
   §
517   Stormwater Management
   §
518   Excavation and Grading
   §
519   Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   §
520   Water Supply, Distribution Systems and Fire Protection
   §
521   Sanitary Sewage Disposal
   §
522   Utilities
   §
523   Monuments and Markers
   §
524   Parking Facilities
   §
525   Alleys
    §
526   Recreational Facilities
   §
527   Lighting
   §
528   Easements
Article 6
Mandatory Dedication of Recreation Land
   §
601   Application
   §
602   Recreation Land Dedication Requirements
   §
603   Criteria for Determining the Location and Suitability of Recreation Areas
   §
604   Ownership/Dedication to Township of Recreation Land
   §
605   Fee in Lieu of Dedication
Article 7
Required Improvements and General Standards
   §
701   Intent
   §
702   Required Improvements
   §
703   Construction of Facilities
   §
704   General Standards
   §
705   Completion of Improvements
   §
706   Guarantees to Complete Improvements and Financial Security
   §
707   Completion of Improvements
   §
708   Maintenance Guaranties and Financial Security
   §
709   Remedies to Effect Completion of Improvements
Article 8
Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park
   §
801   Definitions
   §
802   Permits and Applications
   §
803   Registration
   §
804   Park Layout and Construction Requirements
   §
805   Internal Street System
   §
806   Off-Street Parking
   §
807   Sidewalks
   §
808   Common Open Space Areas
   §
809   Water Supply
   §
810   Sewage Treatment and Disposal
   §
811   Electrical Distribution System
   §
812   Service Buildings and Other Service Facilities
   §
813   Refuse Handling
   §
814   Insect and Rodent Control
   §
815   Fuel Supply and Storage
   §
816   Fire Protection
   §
817   Miscellaneous Requirements
Article 9
Ordinance Amendments; Penalties
   §
901   Enactment of Amendments
   §
902   Amendment Hearings
   §
903   Penalties
Appendices
   
Appendix “A”   Construction Details
   
Appendix “B”   Plan Notification
   
Appendix “C”   Parking Lot Tree Coverage
   
Appendix “D”   As-Built Drawing Requirements
   
Appendix “E”   Plant Materials List
   
Appendix “F”   Noxious Weeds and Invasive Plants
Article 1
General Provisions
§ 101 Short Title.
   This Ordinance shall be known as the “Springfield Township Subdivision and
Land Development Ordinance.”
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 101)
§ 102 Purpose.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
      A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of Springfield Township.
      B.   To guide the future growth and development of Springfield Township,
in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and Act 537 Sewage Facilities Plan of
Springfield Township.
      C.   To provide for adequate light, air, privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population.
      D.   To protect the character and social and economic stability of
Springfield Township and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
Springfield Township.
      E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout Springfield
Township and the value of buildings and improvements upon the land and to
minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
      F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water supply, sewerage, stormwater
management, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public
requirements and facilities.
      G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic within Springfield Township having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
      H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivision and re-subdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
      I.   To insure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
      J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, lakes and ponds; to assure
the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to
encourage the wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve
the community and value of the land.
      K.   To manage stormwater in a manner consistent with Springfield
Township Stormwater Management Ordinance and Tohickon Creek Watershed and
Delaware River (North) Watershed (Act 167) Stormwater Management Plans.
      L.   To regulate the subdivision and/or development of land within any
designated floodplain district in order to promote the general health, welfare
and safety of the community.
      M.   To require that each subdivision lot in flood-prone areas include a
safe building site with adequate access; and that public facilities which serve
such uses be designed and installed to minimize flood damage.
      N.   To protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuitable for
use because of flooding by prohibiting the improper subdivision and/or
development of lands within the designated floodplain districts; and which are
unsuitable for use because of topography, wetlands, steep slopes, and other
environmental features.
      O.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of Springfield
Township and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural
features.
      P.   To provide for open spaces through efficient design and layout of
the land.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 102)
§ 103 Application of Regulations.
   1.   Subdivision Control.
      A.   No subdivision, as herein defined, of any lot, tract or parcel of
land shall be effected and no street, alley, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
main or other facilities in connection therewith, shall be laid out,
constructed, opened or dedicated for public use or travel, or for the common
use of occupants of buildings abutting or to abut thereon, except in strict
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. No lot in any subdivision may
be sold, and no permit to erect, alter or repair any building upon land in a
subdivision may be issued and no building may be erected in a subdivision,
unless and until a subdivision plan has been approved by the Board of
Supervisors and recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds for Bucks
County.
      B.   There shall be no subdivision or land development of any lot which
has been restricted from further land development or subdivision by a note on a
plan, or deed, or conservation easement recorded at the office of the Bucks
County Recorder of Deeds.
   2.   Land Development Control.
      A.   Land development, as herein defined, must comply with the
regulations contained herein. Such compliance shall include, but not be limited
to the filing of preliminary and final plats, the dedication and improvements
of rights-of-way, streets and roads, and the payment of fees and charges as
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
      B.   Land development plans shall indicate the location of each structure
and clearly define each unit and shall indicate public easements, common areas,
and improvements, all easements appurtenant to each unit, and improvements to
public rights-of-way. Developments are subject to the zoning regulations as
they apply to use and density requirements, setbacks, parking and other
features, and the same shall be indicated on the land development plan.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 103)
§ 104 Interpretation and Conflict.
   1.   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
Ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion
of public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   2.   Conflict with Public and Private Provisions.
      A.   Public Provisions. Where any provision of this Ordinance imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of this
Ordinance or any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, or other provisions of
law, whether local, State or Federal, whichever provisions are more restrictive
or impose higher standards shall control.
      B.   Private Provisions. This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant of any other private agreement or restriction, provided that
where the provisions of this Ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of this Ordinance shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the Board
of Supervisors in approving a subdivision or in enforcing this Ordinance, and
such private provision are not inconsistent with this Ordinance or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder.
   3.   Municipal Liability. The grant of a permit or approval of a plan for
any proposed subdivision and/or land development to be located within any
identified floodplain area or district shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee, or warranty of any kind by Springfield Township or by any official
or employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed use, and
shall create no liability upon Springfield Township, its officials or
employees.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 104)
§ 105 Effective Date.
   This Ordinance shall become effective on the 4th day of March, 2012.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 107)
Article 2
Definitions
§ 201 Construction.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall, for the
purpose of this Ordinance, have the meaning herein indicated. The present tense
shall include the future; the singular number shall include the plural; words
used in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter; the
word “shall” is always mandatory; the word “may” is always permissive.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 201)
§ 202 Terminology.
   Agricultural soils, productive–land available for agricultural purposes that
contains soils with a Land Capability Classification of Class 1 of Class 2 or
listed as Prime Farmland in the Official Soil Survey provided by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Web Soil
Survey (http://websoilsurvey.nrcs.usda.gov/). In addition, other lands
available for agricultural purposes identified in the Official Soil Survey with
a Land Capability Classification of Class 3 or listed as Farmlands of Statewide
Importance in the Official Soil Survey are also considered Agricultural Land of
the purposes of this Ordinance, unless otherwise specified. They include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      A.   Prime Agricultural Soils.
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
AlA               Alton gravelly loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AlB               Alton gravelly loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ArB               Arendtsville gravelly silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BeA               Bedington channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
BeB               Bedington channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BrB               Brecknock channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BsA               Brownsburg silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
BsB               Brownsburg silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CaB               Califon loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CdA               Chester silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CdB               Chester silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CmB               Clarksburg silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DaA               Delaware loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
DaB               Delaware loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DfB               Duffield silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DuA               Duncannon silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
DuB               Duncannon silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
EcB               Edgemont channery loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
FoA               Fountainville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
FoB               Fountainville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
GlB               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
GrA               Glenville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
GrB               Glenville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LgA               Lansdale loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LgB               Lansdale loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LkA               Lawrenceville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LmA               Lehigh channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LmB               Lehigh channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
Lt                Linden loam
MaB               Manor loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
McA               Matapeake silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
McB               Matapeake silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
MdA               Mattapex silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
MlA               Mount lucas silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
MlB               Mount lucas silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
NbB               Neshaminy silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PeA               Penn channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
PeB               Penn channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PnB               Penn-Lansdale complex, 3 to 8 percent slopes
RaA               Raritan silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
RaB               Raritan silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ReA               Readington silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
Ro                Rowland silt loam
WaB               Washington silt loam. 3 to 8 percent slopes
 
      B.   Agricultural Soils of Statewide Importance. The following soil types
shall be recognized and classified as Agricultural Soils of Statewide
Importance:
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
AbA               Abbottstown silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AbB               Abbottstown silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
AbC               Abbottstown silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
AmA               Amell silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AmB               Amell silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ArC               Arendtsville gravelly silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BeC               Bedington channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BrC               Brecknock channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BsC               Brownsburg silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BwB               Buckingham silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CbA               Chalfont silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CbB               Chalfont silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CdC               Chester silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
CyB               Culleoka-weikert channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CyC               Culleoka-weikert channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
DgC               Duffield-ryder silt loams, 8 to 15 percent slopes
EcC               Edgmont channery loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
FoC               Fountainville silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
GlC               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
GlD               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
GnC               Glenelg channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
Ha                Hatboro silt loam (Farmland of statewide importance)
KlB               Klinesville very channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LgC               Lansdale loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
LgD               Lansdale loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
LkB               Lawrenceville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LmC               Lehigh channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
MaC               Manor loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
MlC               Mount lucas silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
NbC               Neshaminy silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
NkA               Nockamixon silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
NkB               Nockamixon silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
NkC               Nockamixon silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PeC               Penn channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PkB               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PkC               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PkD               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
PnC               Penn-lansdale complex channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent
                  slopes
RaC               Raritan silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
ReB               Readington silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ReC               Readington silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
RlA               Reaville channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
RlB               Reaville channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
RlC               Reaville channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
StB               Steinsburg gravelly loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
StC               Steinsburg gravelly loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
WaC               Washington silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
 
   If, in the future, the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resources Conservation Service, Soils Survey, Bucks County, 2002, is amended or
revised to include different soils types under the classification of Prime
Agricultural Soils or Agricultural Soils of Statewide Importance, the
definition of Productive Agricultural Soils contained herein shall be deemed to
be amended to include such soils.
   Alley–a right-of-way or service way which provides a secondary means of
vehicular access to the side or rear of abutting properties. Frontage on such a
right-of-way shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements of Township
Ordinances relating to frontage on a street.
   Alluvial soil–areas subject to periodic flooding as defined in the latest
officially issued soil survey information by the U.S. Conservation and Natural
Resources Service.
   Applicant–a landowner, or developer, as hereinafter defined, who has filed
an application for development including his heirs, successors and assigns.
   Application for development–every application, whether tentative,
preliminary, or final required to be filed and approved prior to start of
construction or development including, but not limited to, an application for a
building permit, for the approval of a subdivision plat or plan or for the
approval of a development plan.
   As-built plan–plans that are maintained during construction of the project
and which document the actual locations of the site improvements. As-built plan
must be prepared by a professional land surveyor or professional engineer
licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   BCCD–Bucks County Conservation District.
   BCHD–Bucks County Health Department.
   BCPC–Bucks County Planning Commission.
   Berm–an earth mound which physically blocks views without using
architectural elements.
   Block–an area of land divided into lots and bounded by three or more
streets. Block length shall be measured along the centerline of a street
between centerlines of intersecting streets.
   BMP (best management practice)–activities, facilities, measures or
procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from land development, to protect
and maintain water quality and groundwater recharge, and to otherwise meet the
purposes of this Ordinance, including, but not limited to, infiltration, filter
strips, low impact design, bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed
swales, forested buffers, sand filters and detention basins.
   Board of Supervisors–the Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township, Bucks
County, PA.
   Buffer yard or buffer–a landscaped strip of land required by the Zoning
Ordinance that separates one use from another use or district, and is not
occupied by any building, parking, outdoor storage or any use other than open
space or approved pedestrian pathways.
   Building–a structure having a roof which is used for the shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, or property. The word “building” shall include
any part thereof.
      Building, accessory–a subordinate building located on the same lot as a
principal building and clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal
building. A portion of a principal building devoted or intended to be devoted
to an accessory use is not an accessory building.
      Building, principal–a building in which is conducted, or is intended to
be conducted, the principal use of the lot on which it is located.
   Carbonate geologic formation–carbonate geologic formations consist of
limestone and dolomite bedrock; specifically Allentown Dolomite and Leithsville
formations.
   Cartway–the hard or paved surface portion of any street, or that portion of
a street customarily used by vehicles in the regular course of travel over the
street.
   Clear sight triangle–an area of unobstructed vision at street intersection
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of the street right-of-way lines.
   Common open space–a parcel of land or an area of water, or a combination of
land and water within a development site and designed and intended for the use
or enjoyment of residents of a development, not including streets, off-street
parking areas, and areas set aside for public facilities.
   Community facilities–any use of land, buildings or structures publicly -
owned or operated to serve the community in which it is located including civic
and community centers, historical buildings, fire and police stations, museums,
parks, schools, municipal buildings, libraries and indoor and outdoor
recreational facilities. Such facilities also include utility uses, buildings
or structures, and transportation uses including alleys, driveways, streets,
parking areas, crosswalks, curbs, sidewalks, traffic lights, traffic signs, and
any other use of land for the conveyance of pedestrians and/or vehicles.
   Condominium–a condominium is an ownership arrangement. A condominium is a
structure that has all of the following characteristics:
      A.   The unit, the interior and associated exterior areas designated for
private use in the development plan, is owned by the occupant or his lessor.
      B.   The unit may be any type of permitted structure.
      C.   All or a portion of the exterior open space and any community
interior spaces are owned and maintained in accordance with applicable State
law regarding condominiums and in accordance with the provisions for open
space, roads, or other development features in this Ordinance and the Zoning
Ordinance.
   Conservation District-Bucks County Conservation District.
   Conservation easement-a legal agreement granted by a property owner that
strictly limits the types and amounts of development that may take place on
such property. Such easement shall restrict the original and all subsequent
property owners, lessees and all other users of the land.
   County–County of Bucks, Pennsylvania.
   County Planning Commission–Bucks County Planning Commission.
   Crosswalk–a designated area within a cartway for pedestrian crossing.
   Cul-de-sac–a street intersecting another street at one end and terminating
at the other in a vehicular turnaround.
   Culvert–a pipe, conduit, or similar structure including appurtenant works
which convey surface water under or through an embankment or fill, or under a
roadway, railroad, driveway, pedestrian walk or public-way.
   Density–the number of dwelling units per acre in a land development project.
Density is regulated by the Township Zoning Ordinance.
   Design professional–a professional engineer, architect, landscape architect
or a land surveyor licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Design standards–regulations adopted pursuant to this Ordinance or the
Township Zoning Ordinance establishing minimum or maximum standards, a layout
by which a subdivision and land development is developed or constraints on
building design.
   Design storm- the magnitude of precipitation from a storm event measured in
probability of occurrence (e.g., 50-year storm) and duration (e.g., 24-hour),
and used in the design and evaluation of stormwater management systems.
   Detention basin–an impoundment designed to manage stormwater runoff by
temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate.
   Developer–any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision of
land or a land development.
   Development–any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, the construction or placement of buildings or
other structures, mobile homes, streets and other paving, utilities, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling operations, and the
subdivision of land.
   Development plan–the provisions for development including a planned
residential development, a plat of subdivision, all covenants relating to use,
location and bulk of buildings and other structures, intensity of use or
density of development, streets, ways and parking facilities, common open space
and public facilities. The phrase “provisions of development plan” when used in
this Ordinance shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to in this
definition.
   Development site–the specific tract of land for which a regulated activity
is proposed.
   Drainage easement–a right granted by a landowner to a grantee allowing the
use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   Drainage facility–any ditch, gutter, culvert, basin, storm sewer,
infiltration facility, or other structure designed, intended or constructed for
the purpose of conveying, diverting or controlling surface water or
groundwater.
   Driveway–a private vehicular passageway providing access between a street
and a private parking area or private garage.
   Driveway, shared–a private vehicular passageway providing access between a
street and private parking area or garage serving four or less dwellings.
Shared driveways may cross through lots provided access easements are
established. Lot frontage on such easements shall not be construed as meeting
requirements of Township Ordinances relating to frontage on a street.
   Dwelling–a structure containing one or more dwelling units.
   Dwelling unit–a single habitable living unit that shall be occupied by only
one “family.” (Refer to definition of “family” contained in the Springfield
Township Zoning Ordinance). Each dwelling unit shall have: (A) its own toilet,
bath or shower, sink, sleeping and cooking facilities, and (B) separate access
to the outside or to a common hallway or balcony that connects to outside
access at ground level.
   Easement–a grant by the owner of the property, for the specified use of a
parcel of land.
   Engineer–a professional engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   Erosion–the process by which the surface of the land, including channels, is
worn away by water, wind, or chemical action.
   Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Plan–a site-specific plan,
identifying the BMPs to minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation,
pursuant to 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 102.
   Exceptional Value Waters–surface waters of high quality which satisfy
Pa.Code Title 25 Environmental Protection, Chapter 93, Water Quality Standards,
§ 93.4b(b), as amended (relating to anti-degradation). Cooks Creek Watershed is
designed as an Exceptional Value Cold Water Fishery.
   Excavation–any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated,
or bulldozed; and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   Family–one or more individuals related by blood, marriage or adoption,
including persons receiving formal foster care, or up to four unrelated
individuals who maintain a common household and live within one dwelling unit
with a common cooking facility.
   Fill–
      A.   Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new location above
the natural surface of the ground, or on top of a stripped surface; and shall
include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      B.   The difference in elevation between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of higher elevation on the final ground elevation.
      C.   The material used to fill.
   Financial security–any approved security which may be in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be installed before the Board of
Supervisors approves a final subdivision or land development plan, including
irrevocable letter of credit, escrow agreements, and other similar collateral
or surety agreements.
   Flood–a temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers, and other waters of this
Commonwealth.
   Floodplain–any areas of Springfield Township, classified as special flood
hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated March 16, 2015, and issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof,
including all digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study.
   For areas abutting streams and watercourses where the 100-year floodplain (1
percent annual chance flood) has not been delineated by the Flood Insurance
Study, a study prepared by a registered professional engineer expert in the
preparation of hydrologic and hydraulic studies shall be used to delineate the
100-year floodplain.
(Ord. 178, passed 2-24-2015)
   Floodplain area (general)–a relatively flat or low land area which is
subject to partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream,
river or watercourse; and any area subject to the unusual and rapid
accumulation of surface waters from any source.
(Ord. 178, passed 2-24-2015)
   Forest or woodlands–areas, groves, or stands of mature or largely mature
trees (i.e., greater than 6 inches caliper, except for dogwoods which shall be
considered mature when the caliper is 2 inches or more) covering an area
greater than ¼ acre; or groves of mature trees (greater than 10 inches caliper)
consisting of more than 10 trees; or any lot which has more than one viable
tree of a caliper of 6 inches or greater per 1,500 square feet of lot area, and
the associated intermediate layers in these areas including the understory
shrubs and smaller trees, the ground layer of herbaceous plants, and the forest
floor. Forest or woodlands are intended to encompass the entire woodland
ecology and its importance in providing significant wildlife habitat,
moderating climatic extremes, enhancement of scenic values, decreasing and
runoff, stabilizing soils, and acting as a buffer.
   Governing body–Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
   Grade–slope of a street, other public way, land area, drainage facility or
pipe specified in percent.
   Grading and drainage plan–a plan showing all existing ground features and
proposed grading, including existing and proposed surface and subsurface
drainage facilities, described by grades, contours, and topography.
   High quality waters–surface waters having quality which exceeds levels
necessary to support propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife and
recreation in and on the water by satisfying Pa.Code Title 25 Environmental
Protection, Chapter 93, Water Quality Standards, § 93.4b(a), as amended.
   Impervious surface–impervious surfaces are those surfaces which do not
absorb precipitation and surface water. All buildings, parking areas (not
designed as a BMP to infiltrate stormwater), driveways, roads, sidewalks and
any areas in concrete, asphalt, packed stone, compacted soils, or other
equivalent surfaces shall be considered impervious surfaces within this
definition.
(Ord. 175, passed 1-5-2015)
   Improvement construction documents–include, but are not limited to, approved
design plans, Traffic Study, Stormwater Management Study, Floodplain Study,
Wetland Studies, Erosion and Sedimentation Pollution Control Narrative,
Geological Studies for Water Supply, Sewage Facilities Alternatives Study, etc.
Studies requiring engineering calculations shall be prepared, signed, and
sealed by a licensed Professional Engineer when deemed necessary by the
Township.
   Improvements–those physical additions, installations, and changes required
to render land suitable for the use intended including, but not limited to,
grading, paving, curbing, street lights and signs, fire hydrants, water mains,
electric service, gas service, sanitary sewers, storm drains, sidewalks,
crosswalks, driveways, culverts, and street shade trees.
   Lake and pond riparian buffer–a type of riparian buffer protecting the area
surrounding the shoreline of a lake or pond.
   Land development–any of the following activities:
      A.   The improvement of one or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (1)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure.
         (2)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      B.   A subdivision of land.
      C.   “Land development” does not include development which involves:
         (1)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium.
         (2)   The addition of a residential accessory building, including farm
building, on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building.
         (3)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this subsection, an amusement park is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
   Lot–a parcel of land used or set aside and available for use as the site of
one or more buildings and any buildings accessory thereto, or for any other
purpose, in one ownership and not divided by a street, nor including any land
within the ultimate right-of-way of a public or private street upon which said
lot abuts, even if the ownership to such right-of-way is the owner of the lot.
In the case where an existing deeded parcel of land is divided into two or more
tracts by public street; for the purposes of this Ordinance, each tract shall
be considered a separate lot.
      Lot, corner–a lot which has an interior angle of less than 135 degrees at
the intersection of two street lines. A lot abutting upon a curved street or
streets shall be considered a corner lot if the tangent to the curve at the
points beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side
lot lines with the street lines intersects at an angle of less than 135
degrees.
      Lot, depth–the mean distance from the ultimate right-of-way line of the
lot to its opposite rear line measured in a direction parallel to the side
lines of the lot. Lot depth for triangular lots shall be the mean distance from
the street line to the point of intersection of the side yards. Lot depth for
flag (lane) lots shall be measured from the point where the lot first meets the
minimum lot width to the rear property line.
      Lot, flag (or lane)–a lot which does not have the required frontage on a
street but which gains access to a street by means of a strip of land
connecting the lot to the street.
      Lot, interior–a lot other than a corner lot or reverse frontage lot.
      Lot, nonconforming–a lot, the area or dimension of, which was lawful
prior to the adoption or amendment of the relevant Zoning Ordinance, but which
fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district under the current
Zoning Ordinance.
      Lot of record–a lot which has been recorded in the Office of the Recorder
of Deeds.
      Lot, reverse frontage–a lot which abuts upon at least two streets that is
not a corner lot.
      Lot, triangular–a lot having three lot lines, but which does not qualify
as a corner lot.
      Lot, width–the distance measured between the side lot lines at the
required minimum building setback line. In a case where there is only one side
lot line, lot width shall be measured between such side lot line and the
opposite rear lot line or street line. The minimum lot width is the lot width
required by the Zoning Ordinance for the particular zoning district in which
the lot is located.
(Ord. 175, passed 1-5-2015)
   Maintenance guarantee–any financial security which may be accepted by the
Township for the maintenance of any improvements required by this Ordinance.
   Mobile or manufactured home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended
for permanent occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two units designed to be
joined into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated
towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that
is may be used without a permanent foundation. For the purposes of this
Ordinance, travel trailers are not considered as mobile homes.
   Modular home–a dwelling unit erected on a foundation and made of one or more
sections built in a factory. The completed unit shall meet all applicable
building codes in effect.
   Mobile or manufactured home lot–a parcel of land in a mobile home park,
improved with the necessary utility connections and other appurtenances
necessary for the erections thereon of a single mobile or manufactured home.
   Mobile or manufactured home park–a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
which has been so designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile
home lots for the placement thereon of mobile or manufactured homes.
   Municipal authority–a body politic and corporate created pursuant to the Act
of May 2, 1945 (P.L. 382, No. 164), known as the “Municipalities Authority Act
of 1945.”
   Municipal Engineer–a professional engineer licensed as such in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and appointed by the Township pursuant to Article
V of the Second Class Township Code.
   Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)–a system of conveyances owned by
a State, city, town, or other public entity that include catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, pipes, tunnels, or storm drains that
discharge into waters of the United States.
   Municipality–Springfield Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
   Municipalities Planning Code–Act of Assembly of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, as
amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   NRCS–Natural Resource Conservation Service (previously SCS).
   One hundred-year flood–a flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once
every 100-years (i.e., that has 1 percent chance of occurring each year,
although the flood may occur in any year).
   Open space–any parcel or area of land or water unimproved and set aside,
dedicated, or reserved for resource protection, public enjoyment, or for the
use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such
open space. Open space shall not include land occupied by non-recreational
structures, roads, street right-of-way, rights-of-way for above-ground electric
transmission facilities, parking lots, land reserved for future parking, any
area which is required by this Ordinance for minimum lot areas, minimum yards,
minimum setbacks, building separations, or stormwater facilities, or any other
land precluded from being counted as open space in accordance with the terms of
this Ordinance. For the purpose of this Ordinance, permanently preserved land
is not open space.
   PennDOT–Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   Permanently preserved land–a parcel or tract of land that is subject to a
recorded conservation easement, in perpetuity, in a manner acceptable to the
Township.
   Person–an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   Plan, final–a complete and exact plan prepared by a licensed engineer or
surveyor, prepared for official recording, showing right-of-way lines,
easements, lot dimensions with bearings, lot numbers, and any other relevant
information pertaining to the street and lot subdivision or land development.
The final plan shall include improvement construction documents prepared by a
licensed engineer where applicable.
   Plan, preliminary–a plan prepared by a licensed engineer and/or surveyor
showing the existing features of a tract and its surroundings and proposed
street and lot layout within and adjacent to the subdivision or land
development, as a basis for consideration prior to preparation of a final plan.
Preliminary plan shall include improvement construction documents prepared by a
licensed engineer (where applicable).
   Plan, sketch–an informal plan indicating salient existing features of a
tract and it surroundings and a general layout of the proposed subdivision or
land development, to be used as the basis of informal discussions between
representatives of the Township and the subdivider or land developer.
   Planning Commission–Springfield Township Planning Commission.
   Plat–a map or plan of subdivision or land development whether sketch,
preliminary or final.
   Public facilities–any parks, playgrounds, trails, paths or other
recreational areas; any water or sewer collection, transportation or treatment
facilities; all street, sidewalk, curb or other roadway facilities to be
dedicated; and any drainage or utility easement areas to be dedicated to the
Township. Any public improvements required by Ordinance or otherwise to be
constructed and dedicated to the Township.
   Public hearing–a formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the Board
of Supervisors or Planning Commission of the Township, intended to inform and
obtain public comment, prior to taking action in accordance with this
Ordinance.
   Public meeting–a forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of July 3,
1986, (P.L. 388, No. 84), known as the “Sunshine Act,” 65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et
seq.
   Public notice–notice published once each week for 2 successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in Springfield Township. Such notice shall
state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter
to be considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than
30 days and the second publication shall not be less than 7 days from the date
of the hearing.
   Recreation facilities–the following definitions apply to the recreation
facilities required by §
525 of this Ordinance:
      Basketball court–a complete basketball facility including paved,
standard-sized court area, with posts, backboards, and baskets at both ends of
the court.
      Playfield–a common area within a subdivision or land development for
neighborhood residents to use for informal, active recreation purposes such a
ball games and other activities requiring a large lawn area, away from homes or
other buildings for their proper conduct.
      Playground–a confined, developed neighborhood play area with age
appropriate equipment for children of school age or younger.
      Swimming pool–a complete swimming facility including the pool,
surrounding paved deck, lawn area, lifeguard and bathroom facilities, and
appropriate mechanical equipment, enclosed by a fence.
      Tennis court–a complete tennis facility including paved, standard-sized
court area, posts, net and fencing around its perimeter.
      Tot lot–a confined, developed, neighborhood play area primarily for use
by preschool children under the supervision of parents or guardian.
   Recreation land–common open space that is designated, available, and
suitable for recreational purposes, and which does not include or utilize any
areas of greater than 15 percent slopes, any wetlands or any 100-year
floodplain in order to count toward the minimum amount of recreational land.
   Reserve strip–a narrow parcel of ground having inadequate area for building
purposes separating a street or a proposed street from other adjacent
properties.
   Re-subdivision–any subdivision or transfer of land, laid out on a plan which
has been approved by the Board of Supervisors which changes or proposes to
change property lines and/or public rights-of-way not in strict accordance with
the previously approved subdivision plan.
   Retention basin–a basin designed to retain and/or infiltrate stormwater
runoff so that a permanent pool is established.
   Resource protection land–land which is categorized as resource protection
land under Article 5 of the Zoning Ordinance and which is intended to primarily
preserve natural features and sensitive land areas, including, but not limited
to, wetlands, floodplains, stream valleys, prime agricultural land, steep
slopes, and woodlands.
   Right-of-way–a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, alley, crosswalk, sanitary or storm sewer, stream, drainage ditch, or
for another public or special use. The term “right-of-way” for land plotting
purposes in the Township shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter
established or shown on a final record plan is to be separate and distinct from
lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included within the
dimensions of such lots or parcels.
   Right-of-way-future or ultimate–the right-of-way width required for the
expansion of existing streets to accommodate anticipated future traffic loads;
or a right-of-way established to provide future access to or through
undeveloped land.
   Riparian buffer–see “watercourse riparian buffer,” “lake and pond riparian
buffer” or “wetland riparian buffer.”
   Riparian corridor–a vegetated ecosystem along a waterbody that serves to
buffer the waterbody from the effects of runoff by providing water quality
filtering, bank stability, recharge, rate attenuation and volume reduction, and
shading of the waterbody by vegetation. Riparian corridors also provide
wildlife habitat and may include streambanks, wetlands, floodplains, and
transitional areas.
   Runoff–any part of precipitation that flows over the land surface.
   Sediment–soils or other materials transported by surface water as a product
of erosion.
   Sedimentation–the process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by the movement of water.
   Select earth backfill–earth backfill material free of organics and other
objectionable material being a well graded mixture of rock and soil with no
particle size greater than 8 inches.
   Select backfill–crushed stone backfill graded in accordance with PennDOT
Form 408.
   Setback (building setback line)–the minimum distance that a building must be
held back from an adjacent lot line, depending on the applicable zoning
district, or the minimum distance from the ultimate right-of-way, depending on
the applicable street, road or highway.
   Sewage facilities–a system of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and
disposal that will prevent the discharge of untreated or inadequately treated
sewage or other waste into waters of the Commonwealth or otherwise provide for
the safe and sanitary treatment and disposal of sewage or other waste.
      Central sewage service–service by a community sewage system or a
community on-lot sewage system.
      Community on-lot sewage system–a system of piping, tanks, or other
facilities serving two or more lots and collecting, treating, and disposing of
domestic sewage into a soil absorption area or retaining tank located on one or
more of the lots.
      Community sewage system–a sewage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, for the collection of sewage from two or more lots, or two or more
equivalent dwelling units and the treatment or disposal, or both, of the sewage
on one or more of the lots or at another site, and which does not meet the
definition of a community on-lot sewage system.
      Individual sewage system–a system of piping, tanks, or other facilities
serving a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part
into the soil or into Waters of the Commonwealth or by means of conveyance to
another site for final disposal. The term includes:
      Individual on-lot sewage system–an individual sewage system which uses a
system of piping, tanks, or other facilities for collecting, treating, and
disposing of sewage into a soil absorption area or spray field or by retention
in a retaining tank, all facilities located on-lot.
      Individual sewage system–a system that uses a method of sewage
collection, conveyance, treatment, and disposal other than renovation in a soil
absorption area, or retention in a retaining tank.
      On-lot sewage service–service of a lot by an individual sewage system.
      Public sewage service–service by a community sewage system that is owned
or operated by a municipality or municipal authority.
   Sight distance–includes safe sight distance, safe stopping site distance,
passing sight distance, and decision site distance as defined and regulated by
Pa.Code Title 67, Chapter 441 and PennDOT Design Manual, Part 2, Publication
13. Sight distance for intersection of streets, alleys, and driveways shall be
measured (unobstructed) from a point 10 feet back from edge of pavement at a
height of 3.5 feet above the pavement surface to another point 6 inches above
the pavement surface.
   Site–the site shall be defined as a parcel or parcels of land intended to
have one or more buildings or intended to be subdivided into one or more lots
or developed by a land development.
   Slope–the face of an embankment of or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. Slopes are expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   Soil, percolation test–a field test conducted to determine the absorption
capacity of soil to a specified depth in a given location for the purpose of
determining suitability of soil for on-site sewage disposal.
   Stormwater management facility–any structure, natural or man-made, that, due
to its condition, design or construction, conveys, stores, or otherwise affects
stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities include, but are
limited to, detention and retention basins, open channels, storm sewers, pipes,
infiltration structures, and other BMPs.
   Stream–rivers, creeks, springs, and other perennial or intermittent
watercourses containing water at least on a seasonal basis during an average
water year. The term “stream” shall include all “intermittent streams” and
“perennial streams.”
      Springs or seeps–the point where groundwater discharges to become surface
water.
      Stream, ephemeral–a reach of naturally occurring stream that flows only
during and for short periods following precipitation, and flows in low areas
that may or may not be a well defined channel. Ephemeral streams protected by
this Ordinance naturally connect to a perennial or intermittent stream, or
other water body such as a pond, lake, or wetland. Ephemeral stream beds are
located above the water table year-round. Ground water is not a source of water
for the stream. Ephemeral streams typically have little or no aquatic
community.
      Stream, headwater–the beginning reach of a stream, which collects water
from springs and seeps and provides a hydrologic connection to a perennial
stream. These channels may be ill defined and may move from year to year
depending upon groundwater input, snowmelt, and runoff, but are typified by
hydric soils and hydric vegetation. For the purposes of this Ordinance,
headwater streams and the springs and seeps that feed them receive the same
protection as intermittent streams.
      Stream, intermittent–a reach of stream that flows only during wet periods
of the year and flows in a continuous well-defined channel. During dry periods,
especially in summer months, intermittent streams may only have a trickle of
visible flow, but there is subsurface flow. This condition is usually caused by
seasonal changes in groundwater table or periods of drought. The aquatic
community has low diversity, and/or a dominance of forms with relatively short
aquatic stages, and/or absence of predators or multiple life stages.
      Stream, perennial or watercourse, perennial–a body of water in a channel
that flows throughout a majority of the year in a defined channel and is
capable, in the absence of pollution, drought, or manmade stream disturbances,
of supporting a benthic macroinvertebrate community with relatively long
aquatic life stages and/or the presence of multiple life stages, and/or the
presence of rooted aquatic plants.
   Street, road or highway–includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway,
freeway, parkway, lane, viaduct, alley, or any other ways used or intended to
be used by vehicular traffic or pedestrians whether public or private which are
identified on the legally adopted Township street or highway plan or the
official map together with all necessary appurtenances, including bridges,
rights-of-way and traffic control improvements. The term shall not include the
interstate highway system.
      A.   Arterial streets are those serving large volumes of comparatively
high speed and long-distance traffic, and include facilities classified as main
and secondary highways by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
      B.   Collector streets are streets designed to provide the link between
arterial highways and primary streets. Collectors are designed to carry
moderate volumes of traffic at uninterrupted flow.
      C.   Primary streets are designed to provide the link between collectors
and local access streets, residential neighbor hoods, and nonresidential areas.
      D.   Local access streets are those used primarily to provide access to
abutting properties.
      E.   Marginal access streets are minor streets, parallel and adjacent to
arterial streets, providing access to abutting properties and control of
intersections with the arterial street.
      F.   Cul-de-sac is a minor street intersecting another street at one end
and terminated at the other by a vehicular turnaround.
   Street, new residential–a local access street constructed to provide access
to residential building lots.
   Street, new nonresidential–any new street that is not a new residential
street.
   Structure–a combination of materials assembled, constructed, or erected at a
fixed location, the use of which requires location on the ground or attachment
to something having location on the ground.
   Subdivision–as defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code
being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq, Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as
amended.
   Subdivision, lot line adjustment–a lot line adjustment subdivision involves
relocation of one or more existing boundary line(s) between two adjacent lots,
or the shifting of boundary lines to increase the area of an existing lot;
provided however that the lot line adjustment subdivision results in the same
or fewer number of lots than existed prior to the lot line adjustment
subdivisions.
   Subdivision, major–any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision.
   Subdivision, minor–the first division or redivision of a lot, tract, or
parcel of land existing on the date of adoption of Ord. 12, on March 16, 1971,
by any means into not more than two lots.
   Substantially completed–where in the judgment of the Township Engineer, at
least 90 percent (based on the cost of the required improvements for which
financial security was posted pursuant to the requirements of this Ordinance)
of those improvements required as a condition for final approval have been
completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the project will be
able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended use.
   Surveyor–a licensed surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Swale–a low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   Topsoil–surface soils and subsurface soils which normally are fertile soils
and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris. Topsoil
is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the A Horizon.
   Traffic impact study–a study/report prepared pursuant to §
406 of this Ordinance. Refer §
406 for additional definitions specific to traffic impact study preparation.
   Undeveloped land–any lot, tract or parcel of land which has not been graded
or in any other manner improved.
   Utilities–those services customarily rendered by public utility
corporations, municipalities, or municipal authorities, in the nature of
electricity, gas, telephone, water and sewage, including the appurtenances used
in connection with the supplying of such services such as buildings, wires,
pipes, poles, and the like.
   Water facility–any water works, water supply works, water distribution
system or part thereof, designed, intended or constructed to provide or
distribute potable water.
   Water supply, centralized–a system for supplying and distributing potable
water from a common source to two or more dwellings, lots, and/or principle use
nonresidential buildings, generally serving a single land development,
subdivision, or neighborhood, and generally operated by a governmental agency,
governmental authority, public utility company, developer, homeowner’s
association, or other similar legal entity.
   Water supply, on-lot–a system for supplying and distributing water to a
single dwelling or other building from a source located on the same lot.
   Water survey–an inventory of the source, quantity, yield and use of
groundwater and surface-water resources within Springfield Township.
   Watercourse–refer to “stream.”
   Watercourse riparian buffer–an area of land along a stream, river, creek or
other body of moving water regulated to protect the waterbody from impacts to
water quality, quantity or wildlife habitat caused by human activity and to
provide services related to stormwater control and to lessen impacts from
flooding. Included in the watercourse riparian buffer are the following:
      Minimal disturbance zone–an area of land measured 60 feet from the end of
a no disturbance zone on a perennial or intermittent stream, or measured 10
feet from the centerline of an ephemeral stream, that is protected from
development or other disturbances which may impact the ability of the stream to
provide habitat, water quality protection, infiltration and stormwater
absorption.
      No disturbance zone–an area of land measured 40 feet from the bank of a
perennial or intermittent stream that is protected from development or other
disturbances which may impact the ability of the stream to provide habitat,
water quality protection, infiltration and stormwater absorption.
   Water quality requirements–as defined under State regulations protection of
designated and existing uses (Refer 25 Pa.Code, Chapters 93 and 96):
      A.   Each stream segment in Pennsylvania has a “designated use,” such as
“cold water fishery” or “potable water supply,” which are listed in Chapter 93.
These uses must be protected and maintained, under State regulations.
      B.   “Existing uses” are those attained as of November, 1975, regardless
whether they have been designated in 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 93. Land development
must be designed to protect and maintain existing uses and maintain the level
of water quality necessary to protect those uses in all streams, and to protect
and maintain water quality in special protection streams.
      C.   Water quality involves the chemical, biological, and physical
characteristics of surface water bodies. After land development, these
characteristics can be impacted by addition of pollutants such as sediment, and
changes in habitat through increased flow volumes and/or rates. Therefore,
discharge to surface waters must be designed and managed to protect the
streambank, streambed, and structural integrity of the waterway, to prevent
these impacts.
   Watershed–region or area bounded peripherally by water parting and draining
to a particular watercourse or body of water.
   Waters of the Commonwealth–any and all rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of
surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial,
within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
   Wetland riparian buffer–an area of land surrounding a wetland, designed to
protect the wetland from impacts to water quality, quantity or wildlife habitat
caused by human activity. Wetland riparian buffers contain a minimal
disturbance zone as defined under watercourse riparian buffer.
   Wetlands–areas that are defined as wetlands under Federal or State
regulations, whichever are more restrictive. Wetlands are those areas that are
inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration
sufficient to support, and under normal conditions do support, a prevalence of
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. The term
“wetlands” shall mean any area meeting the definition of a “wetland” under
regulations of PADEP or the US Army Corps of Engineers, whichever is more
inclusive.
   Wetlands delineation–the process by which wetland limits are determined.
Wetlands must be delineated by a qualified specialist according to the 1987
Federal Manuals (as amended) for the Delineation of Jurisdictional Wetlands
(whichever is greater) or according to any subsequent Federal or State
regulation. Qualified specialist shall include those persons being Certified
Professional Soil Scientists as registered with Registry of Certified
Professionals in Agronomy Crops and Soils (ARCPACS); or as contained on
consultant’s list of Pennsylvania Association of Professional Soil Scientists
(PAPSS); or as registered with National Society of Consulting Soil Scientists
(NSCSS), or as certified by State and/or Federal certification programs; or by
a qualified Biologist/Ecologist.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 202; Ord. 175, passed 1-5-2015, §§ 01, 02; Ord.
178, passed 2-24-2015, Art. I; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
Article 3
Submission Procedures
§ 301 General Procedure.
   1.   Classification of Subdivision. Whenever any subdivision of land or land
development is proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part
thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a structure in such proposed
subdivision or land development shall be granted, the owner, or his authorized
agent, shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed subdivision or land
development in accordance with the following procedures for subdivision and
land development.
   2.   Pre-application DEP Consultation. Prior to the preparation of any
plans, it is suggested that prospective developers consult with the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and/or Bucks County Health
Department concerning soil suitability when on-site sewage disposal facilities
are proposed.
   3.   Pre-application Conservation District Consultation. Prospective
developers should consult with the Bucks County Conservation District
representative concerning erosion and sediment control and geologic conditions
at the proposed development.
   4.   Pre-application PennDOT Consultation. When the development site has
frontage on a State highway and/or proposes access to a State highway, the
developer should consult with PennDOT concerning design requirements which may
be imposed in addition to the requirements of this Ordinance.
   5.   Official Filing Date.
      A.   For the purpose of these regulations, the official filing date shall
be the date of the regular meeting of the Planning Commission following the
date complete application and plans are received in the municipal building;
provided, that should said regular meeting occur more than 30 days following
the submission of the application, the official filing date shall be the 30th
day following the day the complete application has been submitted. An
application will not be deemed complete unless all applicable fees have been
paid by the applicant and the application and plans conform with the plan
requirements set forth in Article 4 of this Ordinance.
      B.   Upon receipt of an application for subdivision or land development
approval, the Township Secretary shall affix to the application the date of
submission.
      C.   Following submission of a subdivision or land development plan to
the Township for a formal review, no further documentation or additional plans
or plan sheets may be submitted to the Township for inclusion with the plan
under review. Any and all comments generated by the Township Planning
Commission will pertain to the plan officially submitted for review. This
policy shall apply to formal sketch, preliminary, and final submissions. In the
event the applicant desires to submit a plan of substitution, the original plan
shall be formally withdrawn and a new review timetable shall commence.
   6.   Bucks County Planning Commission Review. All plans shall be submitted
to the Bucks County Planning Commission by the applicant and reviewed by the
BCPC in accordance with its then prevailing rules and regulations.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 301)
§ 302 Fee Schedule.
   1.   All filing, inspection and professional (engineering and legal) fees
and escrows shall be submitted to Springfield Township.
   2.   Plan Filing Fee/Escrow. A filing fee and escrow shall accompany the
preliminary plan. No application shall be accepted or acted upon unless payment
is made to Springfield Township. The Springfield Township Board of Supervisors
shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees and review escrows to be paid
by the subdivider or land developer to defray the cost of administering and
processing of plans. The schedule of fees may be changed from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township.
   3.   Review Fees and Escrows.
      A.   Review fees and escrows shall include reasonable and necessary
charges by the Township’s professional consultants or engineer for review and
report to the Township, and shall be set by resolution. Such review fees shall
be reasonable and in accordance with the ordinary and customary charges by the
Township Engineer or consultant for similar services in the community, but in
no event shall fees exceed the rate or cost charged by the engineer or
consultant to the Township when fees are not reimbursed or otherwise imposed on
applicants.
      B.   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such review
fees, the applicant shall, within 10 days of the billing date, notify the
Township that such fees are disputed, in which case the Township shall not
delay or disapprove a subdivision or land development application due to the
applicant’s request over disputed fees.
      C.   In the event that the Township and applicant cannot agree on the
amount of review fees which are reasonable and necessary, then the fees shall
be recalculated and re-certified by another professional engineer licensed as
such by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and chosen mutually by the Township
and applicant or developer.
   4.   An applicant shall, by filing a plan, be then obligated to pay the fees
and escrows herein provided. The engineering fees required to be paid by this
Section shall be promptly submitted to the Township by the applicant upon the
submission of bills to the applicant from time to time by the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 302)
§ 303 Sketch Plan.
   1.   Prospective subdividers and developers are strongly urged to discuss
possible development sites with the Planning Commission prior to submission of
a preliminary or final plan. The sketch plan may be presented for review by the
Planning Commission at their regularly scheduled meeting. For major
subdivisions, the applicant is encouraged to submit the sketch plan with
application for review by the Bucks County Planning Commission. When requested
by the applicant and upon payment of an engineering review fee and escrows, the
sketch plan will be forwarded to the Township Engineer for review.
   2.   Submission of a sketch plan does not constitute a formal filing of a
subdivision or land development plan with the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   Sketch plan presentation should include those items listed in §
401.2 and shall be submitted in accordance with guidelines for submission
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 303)
§ 304 Lot Line Adjustment Procedure.
   Lot line adjustment plans shall be initiated and submitted for review in the
form of a final plan as specified in §
402 and shall be otherwise reviewed in accordance with the procedures and
standards of §
305.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 304)
§ 305 Minor Subdivision Procedure.
   1.   Minor subdivision plans (refer §
202 of this Ordinance for the definition of minor subdivision) shall be
initiated and submitted for review in the form of a final plan as specified in
§ 402 and shall be otherwise reviewed in accordance with the procedures and
standards of §
306.
   2.   All minor subdivision plans shall contain a notice regarding future
subdivision (refer sample in
Appendix “B”).
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 305)
§ 306 Major Subdivision and Land Development Procedure.
   1.   Preliminary Plan.
      A.   Submission of Preliminary Plans.
         (1)   The preliminary plan and all information and procedures relating
thereto shall in all respects be in compliance with the applicable provisions
of this Ordinance. It is the responsibility of the subdivider or developer to
coordinate plans with the respective private and public service agencies
including, but not limited to, (where applicable) Bucks County Planning
Commission, Bucks County Conservation District, Bucks County Department of
Health, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, PennDOT, and
Municipal Authorities.
         (2)   The application form shall be accompanied by the requisite fee
and escrow as set forth in §
302 of this Ordinance and the number of copies of plans and documents, and
digital data formats as established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
         (3)   The Township Secretary shall forward one copy of the preliminary
plan prints and one copy of required material to the Bucks County Planning
Commission and such other agencies as he/she deems appropriate for review and
comment. One print shall be sent to the Fire Marshall when deemed necessary by
the Township.
         (4)   The Township Secretary shall forward two copies of the
preliminary plan prints and required materials to the Township Engineer for
review and comment.
         (5)   The Township Secretary shall forward the remaining copies of the
preliminary plan prints and required materials to the Planning Commission.
         (6)   When applicable, the submission shall be accompanied by a
planning module for land development, as required by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection.
         (7)   In cases where the subdivision or land development adjoins an
existing or proposed State highway or has proposed streets entering onto State
highways, the developer shall submit the plans to the Pennsylvania Department
of Transportation for review.
      B.   Review of Preliminary Plans.
         (1)   The Planning Commission will consider the plan to determine if
it meets the standards set forth in this Ordinance, Township Zoning Ordinance,
and all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the Township.
         (2)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plan in
time for the Board of Supervisors to render their decision within 90 days from
the official filing date; unless the review period has been extended in writing
by the applicant.
         (3)   Any requests for modification or waiver of the requirements of
this Ordinance shall be in writing in accordance with §
308 of this Ordinance, and must be submitted with the preliminary plan.
Requests for modification or waiver of ordinance requirements shall and be
reviewed by the Planning Commission for advisory comments.
      C.   Planning Commission Recommendation.
         (1)   The Planning Commission shall recommend whether the preliminary
plan shall be approved, approved with modifications, or disapproved, and shall
notify the Board of Supervisors in writing.
         (2)   In making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall
consider the recommendations of the Township Engineer, Township staff, Bucks
County Planning Commission, interested residents, and any agency or agencies
from which a review was requested under subsection 1.A. of this Section.
      D.   Township Engineer Review. All plans and associated documents shall
be reviewed by the Township Engineer, prior to the transmission of such plans
to the Planning Commission review.
      E.   Re-submission of Preliminary Plans. A revised plan submitted after
disapproval shall be considered, and processed as a new plan submission. A
revised plan submitted after approval shall only be considered a new plan
submission if, in the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, it has been
substantially revised after said approval.
      F.   Approval of Preliminary Plans.
         (1)   The Board of Supervisors shall act on the preliminary plan
within 90 days of the official filing date unless the review period has been
extended in writing by the applicant. Failure to do so shall be deemed an
approval. Before acting on a preliminary plan, the Board of Supervisors may
hold a hearing thereon after public notice.
         (2)   The Board of Supervisors shall notify the applicant of its
decision to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the preliminary
plan in writing. Such notice shall be given to the applicant in person or
mailed to him at his last known address not later than 15 days following the
decision. If the plan is approved with conditions or disapproved, the Board of
Supervisors shall specify in their notice the conditions which must be met and/
or the defects found in the plan, and the requirements which have not been met,
including specific reference to provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10101, or any other statute or provision of this
Ordinance which has not been fulfilled.
         (3)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall constitute approval of
the subdivision or land development as to the character and intensity of
development; and the arrangement and approximate dimensions of streets, lots,
and other planned features. The approval binds the subdivider or developer to
the general scheme of the subdivision shown, unless a revised preliminary plan
is submitted, and permits the subdivider to proceed with final detailed design
of improvements, to arrange for guarantee to cover installation of the
improvements, and to prepare the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan
does not authorize the sale of lots nor the recording of the preliminary plan.
         (4)   Where preliminary plan approval is given subject to conditions,
the applicant shall accept or reject any or all of the conditions within 15
days from the date that he/she receives the written notification from the Board
of Supervisors. Failure to accept or reject such conditions in writing within
the foregoing time limit shall result in the conditional approval of the plat
to become automatically rescinded pursuant to § 503(9) of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. and, in the
alternate, the plan is denied due to noncompliance with the specified
conditions.
   2.   Final Plan.
      A.   Submission of Final Plans.
         (1)   After the subdivider or developer has received official
notification from the Board of Supervisors that the preliminary plan has been
approved, he/she must submit a final plan in accordance with the provisions of
§ 508 of the Municipalities Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
Application to the Bucks County Planning Commission with appropriate fee must
be completed by the applicant when deemed necessary by the Township.
         (2)   The final plan shall conform in all respects with the approved
preliminary plan. If it does not, the plan submitted shall be considered a
revised preliminary plan and shall be forwarded by the Township Secretary to
the Planning Commission for review and recommendation as a preliminary plan.
         (3)   The subdivider or developer must submit a guarantee for the
installation of improvements which meets the requirements of Article 6 prior to
the release of the final plan for recording at the Bucks County Courthouse.
         (4)   The application form shall be accompanied by the requisite
inspection and engineering fees/escrows as set forth in §
302.
         (5)   Documented approval of the planning module for land development
by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection shall be part of the
requisite materials accompanying the final plan submission.
         (6)   Final plan submission shall include the required number of final
subdivision or land development plans, associated documents, and digital format
data; and be submitted in accordance with the guidelines for submission
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
         (7)   Upon receipt of final plan, the Township Secretary shall forward
the plans and other materials to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation, two copies of the plan and required materials to the Township
Engineer for review, and comment and copies to such other agencies whose
recommendations would be pertinent to the processing of the plan.
      B.   Review of Final Plans.
         (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the plan and requisite
materials for compliance with the approved preliminary plan and for conformance
to requirements of this Ordinance.
         (2)   The Planning Commission shall act on the final plan in time for
the Board of Supervisors to render their decision within 90 days from the
official filing date unless the review period has been extended in writing by
the applicant.
      C.   Planning Commission Recommendation.
         (1)   The Planning Commission shall recommend whether the final plan
shall be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved, and shall notify
the Board of Supervisors in writing.
         (2)   In making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall
consider the recommendations of the Township Engineer, the Bucks County
Planning Commission, the Bucks County Conservation District, PennDOT, and the
recommendations of any agency or agencies from which a review was requested
under subsection 1.A.
      D.   Township Engineer Review. All plans and associated documents shall
be reviewed by the Township Engineer prior to review by the Planning
Commission.
      E.   Re-submission of Final Plans. A revised plan submitted after denial
shall be considered and processed as a new final plan submission.
      F.   Approval of Final Plans. The Board of Supervisors shall act upon the
application for approval of a final plan and render its decision and
communicate it to the applicant in writing not later than 90 days from the
official filing date unless the review period has been extended in writing by
the applicant.
         (1)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be in writing and
shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to him/her at his
last known address not later than 15 days following the decision.
         (2)   When the application is not approved in terms as filed, the
decision shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite to the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq. or any other statute and the provisions of this Ordinance and any
other ordinance relied upon.
      G.   Recording of Final Plans.
         (1)   Upon approval of the final plan, the subdivider or developer
shall prepare two mylar reproductions and three paper prints of the original
final record plan, including all plan sheets, and five paper prints of the
complete plan set all executed and notarized by the applicant and bearing
appropriate engineering and surveying seals which shall be submitted to the
Township not later than 90 days after approval. These plans, upon satisfaction
of all conditions attached to the approval, will be signed by the Board of
Supervisors. A copy of the signed final plan shall be recorded in the office of
the Bucks County Recorder of Deeds within 90 days after approval of the final
plan or the approval of the Board of Supervisors shall be null and void. The
final plan must be recorded before proceeding with the sale of lots or
construction of buildings.
         (2)   Recording the final plan shall be an irrevocable offer to
dedicate all streets and other public ways to public use, and to dedicate or
reserve all park reservations and other public areas to public use unless
reserved by the subdivider as hereinafter provided. The approval of the final
plan shall not impose any duty upon the Board of Supervisors of Springfield
Township concerning maintenance of the improvements offered for dedication nor
shall such approval be construed as an acceptance of such dedication.
         (3)   The subdivider shall place a notation on the final plan if there
is no offer of dedication to the public of streets and certain designated
public areas, in which event the title to such areas shall remain with the
owner, and the Township shall assume no responsibility for improvement or
maintenance thereof; which fact shall be noted on the plan.
         (4)   Plans shall be recorded at the Bucks County Courthouse by the
Township. All costs associated with recordation of the plans shall be the
responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 306)
§ 307 Time Limitation of Plan Approval.
   When an application for approval of a plan, whether preliminary or final,
has been approved without conditions or approved by the applicant’s passive or
active acceptance of conditions, no subsequent change or amendment in the
zoning, subdivision or other governing ordinance or plan shall be applied to
adversely affect the right of the applicant to commence and to complete any
aspect of the approved development in accordance with the terms of such
approval within 5 years of such approval. The 5-year period shall be counted
from the date of the preliminary plan approval. Failure to substantially
complete the required improvements within the aforesaid 5-year period, or
within any extension thereof, as may be granted by the Board of Supervisors or
as may be permitted by § 508(4)(v and vi) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. for staged developments, shall
make the application subject to any and all changes in zoning, subdivision, and
any other governing ordinance enacted by the Township subsequent to the date of
the initial preliminary plan approval.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 307)
§ 308 Modifications/Waivers.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors may grant a modification/waiver of the
requirements of one or more provisions of this Ordinance if the literal
enforcement will exact undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining
to the land in question, provided that such modification/waiver will not be
contrary to the public interest and that the purpose of intent of this
Ordinance is observed.
   2.   All requirements for modification/waiver shall be in writing and shall
accompany and be part of the application for development. The request shall
state in full the grounds and facts of unreasonableness or hardship of which
the request is based, the provision or provisions of the Ordinance involved,
and the minimum modification/waiver necessary.
   3.   Requests for modification/waiver shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for advisory comments.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 308)
Article 4
Plan Requirements
§ 401 Presubmission Sketch Plan.
   1.   Purpose.
      A.   The purpose of the presubmission sketch plan is to provide an
opportunity for the applicant to consult informally with the Springfield
Township Planning Commission before preparing a preliminary and/or final plan
and formal application for approval.
      B.   The presubmission sketch plan procedure gives the Township the
opportunity to provide informal guidance to the applicant at a stage when
potential differences can be easily resolved.
      C.   A sketch plan review, while not required, is strongly encouraged.
   2.   Submission and Review Procedure.
      A.   The applicant or his agent shall distribute the required number of
prints of the presubmission sketch plan and forms to the Township.
      B.   The plan requirements in §§ 403 and 404 are not mandatory.
   3.   Data furnished in a presubmission sketch plan shall be at the
discretion of the subdivider but is suggested to include the following:
      A.   Name of subdivision or land development.
      B.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of record and
applicant, including a reference to the tax map parcel number and date of prior
subdivision(s) since March 16, 1971.
      C.   Name and address of the engineer, surveyor, or person responsible
for the plan.
      D.   Zoning requirements, including:
         (1)   Applicable district and proposed use.
         (2)   Maximum density permitted and proposed density.
         (3)   Lot size and yard requirements.
         (4)   Required and proposed open space and impervious surface ratios.
         (5)   Any variances or special exceptions granted or needed.
      E.   Location map showing relation of the site to adjoining properties
and streets within 1,000 feet.
      F.   North arrow.
      G.   Written and graphic scales (including scale of location map).
      H.   Total acreage of the site.
      I.   Site boundaries.
      J.   Streets on and adjacent to the site.
      K.   Buildings (and their uses), driveways, sewer lines, sewer systems,
wells, storm drains, culverts, bridges, utility easements, quarries and other
significant manmade features within the site.
      L.   Proposed general street layout.
      M.   Proposed general lot layout.
      N.   Types of buildings proposed.
      O.   Number of units proposed.
      P.   Open space areas.
      Q.   Recreation areas.
      R.   Significant topographical, geological, and physical features
including, but not limited to, floodplains, steep slopes, boulders, ponds,
streams, wetlands, which may impact or limit the proposed use of the property.
      S.   The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal and stormwater
management shall be noted.
   4.   A subdivision sketch plan should be drawn to scale although precise
dimensions are not required.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 401)
§ 402 Lot Line Adjustment Subdivision and Minor Subdivision.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to provide an expeditious means
of subdivision approval for lot line adjustment subdivisions and minor
subdivisions. Refer to the definition of lot line adjustment subdivision and
minor subdivision in §
202 of this Ordinance.
   2.   Drafting Standards (Lot Line Adjustment and Minor Subdivision).
      A.   The plan shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or 1
inch equals 100 feet.
      B.   Dimensions shall be set forth in feet and decimal parts thereof and
bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds.
      C.   Each sheet shall be numbered and shall show its relationship to the
total number of sheets.
      D.   When the plan is a revision of a previously approved plan, dotted
lines shall be used to show features or locations to be abandoned and solid
lines to show the currently proposed features. Notations of revisions shall be
numbered and dated.
      E.   Plan shall be so prepared and bear an adequate legend to indicate
clearly which features are existing and which are proposed.
      F.   The boundary line of the subdivision shall be shown as a solid heavy
line.
      G.   Plan shall be on sheets either 18 inches by 24 inches or 24 inches
by 36 inches. All plan sheets shall be of the same size. All lettering shall be
so drawn as to be legible if the plan should be reduced to half size.
   3.   General Information (Lot Line Adjustment and Minor Subdivision). Plan
shall show or be accompanied by the following information:
      A.   Name of subdivision or land development.
      B.   Name and address of owner of record and applicant.
      C.   Name, address, seal, and signature of all professionals who
participate in preparation of the plan, including the professional seal and
signature of the individual certifying the accuracy of the plan and compliance
with applicable standards.
      D.   Date of preparation of the plan, a descriptive list of revisions to
the plan, and the revision dates. (All sheets must contain the same date and
revision dates. If no revisions are made to a particular sheet, same shall be
noted).
      E.   Tax parcel numbers, deed book and page numbers of properties
involved including any deed restrictions to the property and recorded plan book
and page number for previously recorded subdivisions. A copy of the current
deed(s) and all previously recorded subdivision plans (if any) for the tract
shall be submitted with the plan.
      F.   Zoning requirements, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (1)   Applicable district.
         (2)   Lot size and yard requirements.
         (3)   Natural resource mapping, protection standards and site capacity
calculations as required pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance.
         (4)   Copy of order indicating any variances or special exceptions
granted.
         (5)   Location map showing the relationship of the site to adjoining
properties, proposed property lines, Zoning District boundaries, and streets
within 1,000 feet. Scale of the location map shall be 1 inch equals 800 feet.
         (6)   North arrow.
         (7)   Written and graphic scales for plan and location map.
         (8)   Total acreage of the site (net and gross); proposed lot areas
(net and gross); area of ultimate right-of-way; and in the case of lot line
adjustments, area being conveyed, and a summary of pre/post development areas
of lots involved.
         (9)   Tract boundary (as determined by field survey).
         (10)   Both existing and proposed property lines, including bearing
and distance information.
         (11)   Streets on and adjacent to the site with legal and ultimate
rights-of-way.
         (12)   All existing buildings (and their uses), driveways, wells,
sewer systems, utility and other easements, utility poles (with ownership and
pole number I.D. certification), etc.
         (13)   Existing and proposed concrete monuments, iron pins, and other
survey markers.
         (14)   USGS contours.
         (15)   Current property owner names and tax map parcel numbers of all
immediately adjacent lands on all sides of the property and across streets.
         (16)   All other easements and restrictions on the property.
   4.   Additional Requirements, Minor Subdivisions. In addition to
requirements of subsections .2 and .3 above, minor subdivision plans shall show
or be accompanied by the following information:
      A.   Soil types within the site based on maps contained in the “Soil
Survey of Bucks County, PA,” USDA - NRCS, National Cooperative Soil Survey,
September, 2002 as amended. A table shall indicate each soil’s limitations for
community development.
      B.   Contour lines measured at vertical intervals of 2 feet. Contour
lines shall be determined by on-site survey, not interpretation of USGS maps.
      C.   Datum to which contour elevations refer. Benchmark shall be
identified.
      D.   Existing vegetation including wooded areas, large trees over 6
inches caliper standing alone, and other significant vegetations limits of
trees/vegetation to be removed/preserved.
      E.   Planning modules for land development as required by Chapter 71 of
the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
      F.   Proposed improvements including buildings (and their uses),
driveways, sewer lines, stormwater management facilities, street improvements,
grading, and other requirements of this Ordinance.
      G.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan prepared in accordance
with §
518 of this Ordinance where earth disturbance is proposed.
      H.   Existing features as required by §
403.4.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 402)
§ 403 Preliminary Plan.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary plan is to enable the Township
to examine proposals for compliance with zoning, subdivision and land
development, and other Township ordinances. Preliminary plans are required for
all land developments and major subdivisions.
   2.   Drafting Standards.
      A.   The preliminary plan shall be at a scale of not more than 50 feet to
the inch.
      B.   Plan and profile views shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 50
feet and 1 inch equals 5 feet respectively. Horizontal and vertical scales of 1
inch equals 20 feet and 1 inch equals 2 feet shall be permitted when greater
detail is required as deemed necessary by the Township Engineer.
      C.   Enlarged details of special features, intersections, drainage
facilities, etc., shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 20 feet, or 1 inch
equals 10 feet.
      D.   Sheet sizes shall be either 18 inches by 24 inches or 24 inches by
36 inches.
      E.   All sheets shall be the same size and be numbered relative to the
total number of sheets (e.g., 1 of 4, etc.) If a new sheet is added, all sheets
shall be appropriately renumbered. Use of letters to denote new sheets (e.g.,
sheet 1A of 4) shall not be permitted.
      F.   Where two or more sheets are required to show the entire tract, a
reduced scale key plan shall be included to show how the sheets correspond.
      G.   A reduced scale plan of the entire site at a scale greater than 50
feet to the inch may be required in cases where it will facilitate the review
process.
      H.   Plan shall be so prepared and bear an adequate legend to clearly
indicate which features are existing and which are proposed.
      I.   Site outboundary shall be shown as solid heavy line.
   3.   General Information. All preliminary plans shall show the following
general information.
      A.   Proposed subdivision or land development name or identifying title.
      B.   Name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the property, including
reference to deed book, volume and page of current legal owner.
      C.   Name and address of applicant.
      D.   Name and address of the firm which prepared the plan, and
professional seal of the individual certifying its accuracy and compliance with
applicable standards.
      E.   Date of preparation of the plan and a descriptive list of revisions
to the plan, and the revision dates.
      F.   North arrow.
      G.   Location map showing the relationship of the site to adjoining
properties, proposed property lines, zoning district boundaries, and streets
within 1,000 feet. Scale of the location map shall be 1 inch by 800 feet.
      H.   Written and graphic scales for plan and location map.
      I.   Tract boundary with bearing and distance information.
      J.   Tax map parcel number(s) of parcels which comprise the subdivision
or land development, deed book and page numbers of the properties involved
including deed restrictions to the property, recorded plan book, and page
number for the previously recorded subdivision (if any). A copy of the current
deed(s) for the tract and all previously recorded subdivision plans, if any,
shall be submitted with the plan.
      K.   Zoning requirements including the following where applicable:
         (1)   Zoning district; and district boundaries if within 500 feet of
the site boundary.
         (2)   Lot size and yard requirements.
         (3)   Variances or special exceptions granted.
         (4)   Buffer yard requirements.
         (5)   Site capacity calculations.
         (6)   Inventory of all natural resources, natural resource protection
rates, allowable disturbance to each resource, and proposed disturbance to each
resource.
         (7)   Parking requirements.
         (8)   Proposed use including Zoning Ordinance designation (e.g., Use
B-1, Single-Family Detached).
         (9)   Allowable and proposed density.
         (10)   Proposed impervious surface area ratio, allowable impervious
ratio, and tabulation of proposed impervious area.
         (11)   Dwelling unit mix.
      L.   Tax map parcel number and names of current owners of immediately
adjacent lands on all sides of the property and across streets.
      M.   Total acreage of the site (net and gross) and number of proposed
lots and/or dwelling units, or gross leasable floor area.
      N.   Statement identifying existing and proposed method of sewage
disposal and water service. If public, name of agency providing service.
      O.   Statements regarding maintenance responsibilities of permanent
stormwater management control facilities, swales, drainageways, and open space
areas.
   4.   Existing Features Plan. Within the tract proposed for subdivision and/
or land development, and within 100 feet of the tract boundaries, the following
information shall be shown on the preliminary plan:
      A.   All existing property lines of site if currently containing several
smaller parcels.
      B.   All property and easement boundaries defined by bearing and distance
information.
      C.   Total width of streets and alleys; names of streets and alleys;
total width of legal rights-of-way and ultimate rights-of-way. Half widths of
streets and alleys shall be dimensioned as measured from physical centerline to
legal and ultimate rights-of-way.
      D.   Buildings (and their uses), driveways, wells, sanitary sewer
systems, pipelines, underground and/or above ground storage tanks, pools,
fences, silos, water systems, fire hydrants, valves, towers, etc.
      E.   Utility poles with identification information/numbers and street
lights.
      F.   Contour lines measured at vertical intervals of 2 feet. Contour
lines shall be determined by on-site survey, not interpretation of USGS maps.
Location of survey benchmark shall be noted. Benchmark shall be based on USGS
datum reference points or sanitary sewer manhole datum (whichever is more
accessible relative to location to site). Assumed benchmark elevations and
arbitrary control points will not be acceptable unless approved by the Township
Engineer.
      G.   Concrete monuments and iron pins within and along site outboundary,
rights-of-way, easements, etc.
      H.   Soil types within the site based on maps contained in the “Soil
Survey of Bucks County, PA,” USDA - NRCS, National Cooperative Soil Survey,
September, 2002 as amended. A table shall indicate each soil’s limitations for
community development.
      I.   Areas of vegetation including wooded areas and large trees over 6
inches caliper standing alone. Areas of scrub growth with an understory height
of at least 4 feet shall be delineated independently of wooded areas.
      J.   Watercourses, storm sewers, culverts, bridges, stormwater management
facilities or any other significant drainage features and facilities with
associated inverts, pipe/culvert sizes, material, and lengths, and all
applicable dimensional information.
      K.   Floodplain areas or districts including information on 100-year
flood elevations. FEMA cross sections and elevations shall be utilized to
delineate floodplain boundary where detailed study information is available.
Where detailed study information is not available, 100-year flood elevations
shall be calculated utilizing HEC I computations to generate flow information
and HEC II computations to calculate water surface elevations. Structures
culverts, obstructions, bridges or any other significant feature within 500
feet downstream of the site shall be included within the study to account for
potential backwater affects. Basins, ponds, flood control facilities or any
other significant drainage facility within upstream tributary area shall be
included in the study. Use of TR-55 “Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds”
United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service will be an
acceptable alternate method for calculating 100 year flow rates. Use of other
methods must be approved by the Township Engineer.
      L.   Utility, private and/or public easements, and purposes for which the
easements have been established with all applicable restrictions and/or
covenants.
      M.   Wetlands, wetland buffers, ponds, pond shorelines, riparian buffers,
lakes, lake shorelines with total area of coverage listed. List of soil
consultants qualifications must be submitted with a certification as to
accuracy of the delineation. Certification must properly reference plan by
title, date and parcel number.
      N.   Steep slopes shall be independently mapped by shading for the
following ranges:
         (1)   15-24 percent.
         (2)   25-30 percent.
         (3)   Over 30 percent.
      O.   Pre-developed drainage boundaries with associated areas, time of
concentration paths, and runoff factors.
   5.   Site Improvement Plan. A site improvement plan shall be prepared and
include the following proposed improvements:
      A.   General lot layout, easement and right-of-way boundaries.
      B.   Location of dwellings and structures including exterior dimensions,
first floor elevation, and garage floor elevation.
      C.   Sanitary and storm sewer layout, pipe lengths, size, material,
slopes, inverts, and grate/manhole elevations.
      D.   Location of water mains and fire hydrants, and electric and gas
utilities.
      E.   Streets, curb, sidewalk, pedestrian ramps, pedestrian paths, bike
paths, and recreational facilities.
      F.   Street and alley widths.
      G.   Driveway locations.
      H.   Street intersections.
      I.   Cartway widening improvements and appropriate dimensions from
existing roadway centerlines.
      J.   Existing and proposed sight distances at existing and/or proposed
intersections. Sight distances shall be determined in accordance with 67
Pa.Code, Chapter 441.
      K.   Parking areas, parking stalls, aisles, and associated dimensions.
      L.   Curb and cul-de-sac radii.
      M.   Culverts, bridges, basins, and any other significant drainage
facility.
      N.   Street signage.
      O.   Landscaping and buffer yards.
(Ord. 171, passed 6-2-2014)
      P.   Recreation facilities.
(Ord. 171, passed 6-2-2014)
   6.   Grading Plan. Grading plan shall include the following:
      A.   General site layout, property lines, easement boundaries,
structures, streets, curb, sidewalk, etc.
      B.   First floor elevation and garage floor elevation of all existing and
proposed buildings.
      C.   Existing and proposed contours.
      D.   Bottom and top of curb elevations around curb returns at
intersection, and turnaround area on cul-de-sac streets.
      E.   General layout of storm sewer.
      F.   Grate elevations of storm sewer inlets.
      G.   Rim elevations of manholes.
   7.   Stormwater Management Plan. Stormwater management plan shall include
the following:
      A.   General site layout of streets, buildings, sidewalk and curb, and
storm sewer.
      B.   Post development drainage boundaries with associated areas, time of
concentration, flow path and runoff factors listed.
      C.   Existing contours.
      D.   Proposed grading.
      E.   Required stage/storage chart for stormwater management basins and
infiltration facilities.
      F.   Discharge location of all roof drains and sump pump lines.
   8.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan. Erosion and sedimentation
control plan shall be prepared in accordance with applicable provisions of 25
Pa.Code, Chapter 102, “Erosion Control,” DEP Erosion and Sediment Pollution
Control Program Manual, Erosion and Sedimentation Pollution Control Plan Guide
for Small Projects, (as published by the Southeast Pennsylvania Association of
Conservation Districts), and Special Protection Waters Implementation Handbook,
and in accordance with §
519 of this Ordinance.
   9.   Lighting Plan.
      A.   Lighting plans for recreational facilities, nonresidential and
multi-family residential subdivisions and land developments shall be submitted
to the Township for review and approval and shall include:
         (1)   A plan or plans of the site, complete with all structures,
parking spaces, building entrances, traffic areas (both vehicular and
pedestrian), existing and proposed trees, utilities, and adjacent uses that
might be adversely impacted by the lighting. The lighting plan shall contain a
layout of all proposed and existing fixtures including, but not limited to,
area, architectural, building entrance, canopy, soffit, landscape, flag, sign,
etc., by location, orientation, aiming direction, mounting height, lamp,
photometry and type.
         (2)   A 10-feet by 10-feet illuminance grid (point-by-point) plot of
maintained horizontal footcandles overlaid on the site plan, plotted out to 0.0
footcandles, which demonstrates compliance with the light trespass,
illuminance, and uniformity requirements as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance,
or as otherwise required by the Township. When the scale of the plan, as
determined by the Township, makes a 10-feet by 10-feet grid plot illegible, a
larger grid spacing may be permitted.
         (3)   Description of the equipment, including fixture catalog cuts,
photometrics, glare reduction devices, lamps, control devices, mounting heights
and mounting methods proposed.
         (4)   Post-approval alterations to lighting plans or intended
substitutions for approved lighting equipment shall be submitted to the
Township for review and approval.
      B.   To assist in determining whether lighting will be permitted,
applications for illuminating recreational facilities shall be accompanied not
only with the information required for submission above, but also by a visual
impact plan that contains the following:
         (1)   Plan views containing a layout of the recreational facility and
showing pole locations and the location of residences on adjoining properties.
         (2)   Elevations containing pole and fixture mounting heights,
horizontal and vertical aiming angles and fixture arrays for each pole
location.
         (3)   Elevations containing initial vertical illuminance plots at the
boundary of the site, taken at a height of 5 feet.
         (4)   Elevations containing initial vertical illuminance plots on the
windowed facades of all residences facing and adjacent to the recreational
facility. Such plots shall demonstrate compliance with the light trespass and
glare control requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (5)   Proposed frequency of use of the facility during hours of
darkness on a month-by-month basis and proposed time when the sports lighting
will be extinguished.
         (6)   A narrative describing the lighting measures proposed to achieve
minimum off-site disturbance.
(Ord. 171, passed 6-24-2014)
   10.   Plan and Profiles. Plan and profiles shall be prepared for all
existing and proposed streets and utilities where improvements are proposed or
are being extended from existing facilities and off site shall include the
following:
      A.   Profiles shall include at a minimum the following:
         (1)   Existing and proposed ground elevations and profile.
         (2)   Proposed profile of ground and/or street.
         (3)   All applicable vertical curve data for streets.
         (4)   Sight distance requirements.
         (5)   Sanitary sewer, storm drainage, and water service facilities;
vertical separation distances at utility crossings, and encasements; inverts of
pipes at crossing locations.
         (6)   All utility and storm pipe sizes, materials, slopes, inverts and
lengths.
         (7)   Inlet and manhole inverts, rim and grate elevations; top of wall
elevations for endwalls and headwalls.
         (8)   Centerline stationing along profile and vertical geometry.
         (9)   Profiles for streets shall follow roadway centerlines.
         (10)   Stationing of sanitary sewer laterals and inverts for same.
         (11)   Manhole and inlet numbering corresponding to profile view.
         (12)   Profiles along existing streets for areas of cartway widening
shall include existing edge of road profile and bottom of curb profile.
      B.   Plan views shall include at a minimum the following:
         (1)   Right-of-way and easement boundaries.
         (2)   Dimensioning of street widths.
         (3)   Location of curb, sidewalk, driveway entrances and pedestrian
ramps.
         (4)   Centerline stationing along streets and horizontal geometry.
         (5)   Location of all sanitary sewer mains and laterals, storm sewer,
roof drains and sump pump leaders, water mains and gas mains.
         (6)   Manhole and inlet numbering corresponding to profile view.
         (7)   Location of street and regulatory signs.
         (8)   Proposed contours within limits of right-of-way boundaries.
         (9)   Top and bottom of curb elevations at ends of returns; and
centrally along returns, at intersections and other critical locations as
deemed necessary by Township Engineer.
         (10)   Plan views of improvements along existing streets shall include
existing centerline and edge of road spot elevations every 25 linear feet.
   11.   Construction Details Plan. The construction details plan shall include
but not be limited to the following general construction details:
      A.   Roadway/widening construction.
      B.   Utilities installation, bedding and backfill.
      C.   Storm sewer installation, bedding and backfill.
      D.   Waterline installation, bedding and backfill.
      E.   Sanitary sewer installation, bedding and backfill.
      F.   Stormwater management facilities.
      G.   Traffic control.
      H.   Erosion and sedimentation control.
      I.   Sidewalk and curb installation specifications.
      J.   Right-of-way and easement restoration.
      K.   Special structures.
      L.   Drainage swale design information.
      M.   Fencing details.
      N.   Landscaping material and planting.
      O.   Any other details as deemed necessary by the Township and/or
Township Engineer.
   12.   Additional Documentation. The following information shall be submitted
with the preliminary plan where applicable:
      A.   Narrative summary of proposed development prepared pursuant to §
411.
      B.   Traffic impact study prepared pursuant to §
406.
      C.   Sewage facilities planning modules prepared pursuant to §
407.
      D.   Water resources impact study prepared pursuant to §
408.
      E.   Carbonate geology study prepared pursuant to §
409.
      F.   Wetland delineation report prepared pursuant to §
410.
      G.   A statement describing the manner in which the developer shall
advise each prospective purchaser of a residential lot or unit of the existence
and location of certain conditions impacting on the purchased property
including:
         (1)   Location and type of adjacent open space or recreational
facilities.
         (2)   Location and type of any stormwater management easements.
         (3)   All utility and other drainage easements.
         (4)   Any deed restrictions and/or restrictive covenants established
on the lot during the course of the subdivision approval process.
         (5)   Any street light or fire hydrant assessments by any municipal
entity.
         (6)   Such other information as directed by the Township.
      H.   A plan for the ownership and maintenance of open space.
      I.   Stormwater management calculations and reports including a plan for
the ownership and maintenance of non-dedicated stormwater management
facilities.
      J.   A color aerial map of the site showing the site outboundary. Aerial
map shall extend a minimum of 200 feet beyond the site outboundary.
   13.   Notice of Preliminary Plan. For all subdivisions which propose five
lots or more, notice of filing of preliminary plan shall be given by the
applicant to all abutting landowners of record as follows:
      A.   Proof of notice shall be given at the time of application and shall
be by certified letter to each abutting landowner of record within 500 feet of
the site.
      B.   The foregoing letter shall identify the following:
         (1)   Date of application.
         (2)   Record owner of the tract to be developed.
         (3)   The location of the tract to be developed indicating street
address, zoning district and tax map parcel number.
         (4)   Description of the proposed development including use, number of
lots and acres.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 403; Ord. 171, passed 6-24-2014, Arts. I-III;
Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 404 Final Plan (Record).
   1.   Upon completion, all subdivision and land development applicants shall
submit five paper prints of the record plan including all sheets of the plan
set.
   2.   Drafting Standards. The standards required for a record plan shall be
the standards outlined in §§
402 and
403.
   3.   All plans must be acknowledged with a raised notary seal affixed;
raised seal of registered engineer and/or surveyor responsible for the plan;
and raised seal of architect and/or landscape architect who collaborated in the
preparation of the plan; and if the applicant is a corporation, a raised
corporate seal. All plans must be approved by the Board of Supervisors together
with the raised official seal.
   4.   General Information. The general information required for a record plan
shall be the general information required by §§
402 and
403.
   5.   Existing Features. The existing features required to be shown on a
record plan shall be the existing features required by §§
402 and
403.
   6.   Proposed Improvements. The proposed improvements required to be shown
on a record plan shall be as required by §§
402 and
403.
   7.   Opinion of cost prepared by professional engineer for proposed
improvements.
   8.   One original and two copies of all legal descriptions for street and
utility rights-of-way, easements, open space, and any other areas as determined
by the Township. All descriptions shall be signed and sealed by the responsible
surveyor.
   9.   Notes and Certificates. The record plan must include the required notes
and certificates:
      A.   On all applications where improvement construction plans are
required, the following note shall appear on the record plan: “Sheets 2 through
___ inclusive, on record at the Township, shall be considered a part of the
approved final plan as if recorded with same.” These shall be listed by sheet
number and title on the record plan.
      B.   The signature of the licensed Engineer and/or licensed surveyor
certifying that the plan represents a survey made by him; that any existing
monumentation shown here on exists as located; and the dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
      C.   An acknowledgment as follows:
         (1)   Where the owner(s) are individuals, all shall join as follows:
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
                                                                                         
                                    Signature of Owner
   SS.
County of Bucks
On the              day of                           , 20        , before me the subscriber, a Notary Public of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, residing in personally appeared (name(s) of all owners), known to me (or satisfactorily
proven) to be the persons whose name(s) (is/are) subscribed to the foregoing plan, and acknowledge that (he/she/they)(is/
are) the registered owner(s) of the designated plan, that all necessary approvals of the plan have been obtained and is
endorsed thereon, and that (he/she/they) desire that the foregoing plan be recorded according to law.
Witness my hand and notarial seal, the day and year aforesaid.
                                                                                    
                                             Notary Public
My Commission Expires                                                      
(SEAL)
 
         (2)   Where the owner is a corporation:
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
   SS.
County of Bucks
On the              day of                           , 20        , before me the subscriber, a Notary Public of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, residing in personally appeared (name of officer of corporation), who acknowledged
(himself/herself) to be the (president/secretary) of (name of the corporation), a corporation, and that as such
(president or secretary), being authorized to do so, (he/she) executed the foregoing plan by signing that the said
corporation is the registered owner of the designated land, that all necessary approvals of the plan have been obtained
and is endorsed thereon, and that (he/she/they) desire that the foregoing plan be recorded according to law.
Witness my hand and notarial seal, the day and year aforesaid.
                                                                                    
                                             Notary Public
My Commission Expires                                                      
(SEAL)
 
      D.   Approved Notation by the Township shall be as follows:
 
Approved by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Springfield this             day of                           ,
20        .
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                      
 
      E.   Township Planning Commission Notations:
 
Recommended for approval by the Springfield Township Planning Commission this
            day of                           , 20        .
                                                             
                                                             
 
      F.   Bucks County Planning Commission Notation:
 
BCPC No.                                                         
PROCESSED AND REVIEWED. Report prepared by the Bucks County Planning Commission in accordance with the
Municipalities Planning Code.
Certified this date                                       
                                                                                                        
Executive Director, Bucks County Planning Commission
 
      G.   Recording Notation:
 
“Recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, Bucks County, Pennsylvania in Plan Book -               
Page               on the             day of                           , 20        .
 
      H.   Signatures to Appear on Plan. The following signatures shall be
placed directly on the plan in black ink:
         (1)   The owner or owners of the land. If the owner of the land is a
corporation, the signatures of the president and secretary and the corporate
seal shall appear.
         (2)   The notary public acknowledging the owner’s statement of intent.
         (3)   The licensed engineer and/or licensed surveyor who prepared the
plan. If an architect and/or a landscape architect collaborated in the
preparation of the plan, his signature and seal shall also appear.
         (4)   Any other professionals involved in preparation of the plan
(e.g., wetland specialist, landscape architect, geologist, etc.)
         (5)   The Bucks County Planning Commission.
         (6)   The Planning Commission of Springfield Township.
         (7)   The Supervisors of Springfield Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 404)
§ 405 As-Built Plans.
   Upon completion of all public and/or private improvements prior to
acceptance or approval of same by the Board of Supervisors in accordance with
provisions set forth in Article 7 of this Ordinance, the subdivider or
developer will furnish the Township with as-built plans for all utilities,
roads, stormwater management facilities, and other public/private improvements
shown on the approved plans. As-built plans for detention/retention basins and/
or underground storage facilities utilized for stormwater management must be
prepared and submitted to the Township Engineer for review immediately upon
completion of rough grading to verify required stage/storage capacity. As-built
plans for these facilities must be reviewed for compliance with stormwater
management plan design requirements prior to any additional site work. As-built
plans shall contain information listed in
Appendix “D.”
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 405; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 406. Traffic Impact Study.
   1.   Purpose. The traffic impact study will enable the Township to assess
the impact of the proposed development on the transportation system, both
highways and public transportation and pedestrian/ bicycle trails, in the
Township. Purpose of the impact study is to ensure that proposed developments
do not adversely affect the transportation network and to identify any traffic
problems associated with access between the site and the existing
transportation network as well as recommend necessary improvements that will
mitigate deficient traffic operations and promote pedestrian safety. The
study’s purpose is also to delineate solutions to potential problems and to
present improvements to be incorporated into the proposed development. The
study shall assist in the protection of air quality, conservation of energy and
encouragement of public transportation use.
   2.   Traffic impact study shall be prepared by a qualified traffic engineer
and/or transportation planner with previous traffic study experience.
Procedures and standards for the traffic impact study are set forth herein.
Applicant may provide funds to the Township which may hire a traffic engineer
of its choice to conduct the study, if this procedure is deemed appropriate by
the Township.
   3.   When access to a State road is proposed and/or intersections to be
studied include state roads, the traffic engineer shall consult with PennDOT
during the development of the traffic study.
   4.   Applicability. A traffic impact study shall be submitted for all
subdivisions and land developments that meet one or more of the following
criteria:
      A.   Residential–20 or more dwelling units.
      B.   Nonresidential subdivision–10 or more lots.
      C.   Commercial–a commercial building or buildings consisting of 25,000
square feet or more of gross floor space (total floor area on all floors within
the exterior walls of the building).
      D.   Office–a development consisting of 25,000 square feet or more of
gross floor space.
      E.   Industrial–any industrial development consisting of 10 or more lots,
or 100,000 square feet or more of gross floor area.
      F.   Institutional–any medical, educational or institutional development
consisting of 25,000 square feet or more of gross floor area.
   The Board of Supervisors, at its discretion, may require any other
subdivision or land development applications to be accompanied by a traffic
impact study; provided, however, that the Board of Supervisors notify the
applicant within 30 days following the Planning Commission’s first meeting to
consider the proposal. Such a notification shall specify the reason for the
requirement, citing the proposal’s particular location or existing problems or
type of use (e.g., generation of heavy truck traffic).
   5.   Definitions.
      A.   Public Transportation. Transportation service for the general public
provided by a common carrier of passengers generally on a regular route basis,
or a private operator offering service to the public.
      B.   Study Area. The study area shall be the area of land within the
Township that is likely to be affected by the development. The selected area
shall be discussed with and approved by the Township Planning Commission prior
to initiating the study. Specific intersections to be included in the study
shall also be approved by the Township Planning Commission prior to initiating
work.
      C.   Volume/Capacity Analysis. This procedure compares the volume of a
roadway or intersection approach to its capacity (maximum number of vehicles
that can pass a given point during a given time period.) The procedures
described in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board
Special Report 209, as amended, shall be followed.
      D.   Level of Service. Level of service, as described in the 2000 Highway
Capacity Manual, as amended, indicates how well traffic moves on a particular
highway facility or through a specific intersection. There are six levels of
servicing ranging from “A” through “F.” Level of Service “A” indicates
generally free movement. Level of Service “E” represents maximum capacity of
the facility. Level “F” indicates congestion. Level of Service “D” is
considered the level of service design threshold.
      E.   Trip Generation Rates. The total count of trips to and from a study
site per unit of land use as measured by parameters such as dwelling units,
acres, etc.
      F.   Warrants for Traffic Signal Installation. This is a series of
warrants which detail the minimum traffic or pedestrian volumes or other
criteria necessary for the installation of a traffic signal. These warrants are
contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways, U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration,
2000, as amended, or the most recent version, whichever is later.
      G.   Engineering and traffic studies shall be prepared in accordance with
Pennsylvania Title 67, Chapter 201, “Engineering and Traffic Studies.”
   F.Queue Analysis. An analysis that identifies the maximum queue of vehicles
in each traffic stream, measured in feet. The analysis shall utilize a computer
model typically accepted by the Department of Transportation and the Township,
which will calculate the queues and which can be calibrated to represent
existing conditions.
   6.   General Requirements and Standards. A transportation impact study shall
contain the following information:
      A.   General Site Description. The site description shall include the
size, location, proposed land uses, any construction staging and the completion
date of the proposed subdivision or land development. If the development is
residential, types of dwelling units shall also be included. A brief
description of other major existing and proposed developments within the study
area shall be provided. The general site description shall also include
probable socioeconomic characteristics of potential site users to the extent
that they may affect the transportation needs of the site (e.g., number of
senior citizens).
      B.   Transportation Facilities Description. The description shall contain
a full documentation of the proposed internal and existing external
transportation system. This description shall include proposed internal
vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian circulation, all proposed ingress and egress
locations, all internal roadway widths and rights-of-way, parking conditions,
traffic channelizations and any traffic signals or other intersection control
devices at all intersections within the site. Also, the description shall
include the characteristics of the site users with respect to their
transportation needs. In addition, the description for institutional,
educational, day care, or other similar facilities shall include a narrative of
the shift changes or arrival and dismissal times, student dropoff/pick-up
procedures, number of school buses, and number of students, where appropriate.
The description shall also include an evaluation of any proposed drive-through
facilities to establish adequacy of the proposed design, relative to internal
access, stacking, and ingress/egress.
   The report shall describe the entire external roadway system within the
study area. All intersections included in the study area shall be identified
and sketched. All existing and proposed public transportation services and
facilities within a 1-mile radius of the site shall also be documented. All
future committed or proposed roadway and intersection improvements within the
study area, including proposed construction and traffic signalization, shall be
noted. This information shall be obtained from the 12-Year Highway Capital
Program for the Delaware Valley Region and from the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation and the Bucks County Planning Commission. The responsible party
and anticipated project schedule shall be identified for each improvement.
      C.   Existing Traffic Conditions. Existing traffic conditions shall be
measured and documented for all roadways and intersections established as part
of the approved study area and scope and shall be based on the following:
         (1)   Existing traffic volumes for average daily traffic, peak highway
hour(s) traffic, and peak development generated hour(s), and documentation
shall be included in the report. Note: often the highway and development peak
hours coincide depending on the land use. Documentation regarding all traffic
counts shall be included. Figures shall be provided in the report illustrating
the peak hour turning movement traffic volumes.
         (2)   A volume/capacity analysis based upon existing traffic volumes
shall be performed during the peak highway hour(s) and the peak development
generated hour(s), as applicable, for all roadways and study intersections.
Levels of service shall be determined for each location using the 2000 Highway
Capacity Manual methodology, as updated and amended. The level of service
results of the volume/capacity analysis shall be presented graphically.
         (3)   A summarization of the most recent 3-year accident data within
the study area shall be provided if required by the Township based on accident
records from both the local police and State Police.
      D.   Future Conditions Analysis Without the Proposed Development. An
evaluation of the anticipated future traffic volumes and the ability of the
roadway network to accommodate this traffic without the proposed development
shall be provided. The analysis shall be for the development completion year
and any interim years if development phase(s) are proposed. Also, an analysis
of future conditions 10 years after the initial development opening year shall
be provided, if also required by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
In any event the Township may require that future conditions analysis 10 years
after opening year be provided in order to verify roadway/intersection designs.
This evaluation shall include the following:
         (1)   Peak hour traffic volumes shall be projected for the design year
(s) based on traffic growth information compiled by the Bucks County Planning
Commission, the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission, and/or the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. Projected traffic volumes shall also
include anticipated traffic growth associated with other area proposed
developments or developments under construction. All assumptions and
methodologies utilized to forecast the future traffic volumes shall be clearly
documented. Figures shall be provided in the report illustrating the peak hour
turning movement traffic volumes.
         (2)   A volume/capacity analysis based on future without development
traffic volumes shall be performed during the peak highway and development
hours, for all study intersections. The capacity analysis shall be conducted
according to methods of analysis as previously described herein. The level-of-
service results shall be presented graphically.
         (3)   Roadway and intersection improvements committed to by others for
implementation prior to the design year(s) should be included in the analysis.
The applicant’s traffic engineer shall seek guidance from the Township in
determining the appropriateness of any planned, programmed and/or committed
future roadway and intersection improvements. An analysis of future conditions
both without and with improvements shall be provided, if appropriate.
      E.   Trip Generation Characteristics. Estimation of vehicular trips to
result from the proposed development shall be completed for the design year(s)
for the average daily peak highway hour(s) and peak development-generated hour
(s) and shall be determined as follows:
         (1)   Estimation of the number of trips generated by the proposed uses
for each study hour and also on a daily basis shall be developed utilizing the
most recent edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers publication,
Trip Generation. Other local sources of trip generation data may be acceptable,
subject to supporting study information on more than one similar site and the
approval of the Township. For proposed expansions or relocation of existing
facilities, actual trip generation information may be utilized, if appropriate
as determined by the Township.
         (2)   Traffic volumes generated by the proposed development shall be
distributed and assigned throughout the study area for each of the study peak
hours and provided on separate figures for review. Documentation of all
assumptions used in the distribution and assignment of traffic shall be
provided.
      F.   Future Conditions Analysis with the Proposed Development. A
description of the adequacy of the roadway system and study intersections to
accommodate future traffic with development of the site shall be provided. An
analysis shall be completed for each study peak hour as follows:
         (1)   Daily and peak hour traffic volumes shall be projected for the
design year(s). Projected traffic volumes shall be calculated by adding the
anticipated development trip generation to the future traffic volumes without
development for the roadway network and site access. Figures shall be provided
in the report illustrating the peak hour turning movement traffic volumes.
         (2)   A volume/capacity analysis based on future with development
traffic volumes shall be performed during the peak highway and development
hours, for all study intersections. The capacity analysis shall be conducted
according to methods of analysis previously described herein. The level-of-
service results shall be presented graphically.
         (3)   A queuing analysis shall be performed during the peak highway
and development hours, as appropriate, for each study and site access
intersection. The results of the queuing analysis shall be presented
graphically and the available storage lengths for all existing and proposed
lanes shall be identified to determine the adequacy of these facilities to
accommodate the anticipated future vehicular traffic queues.
         (4)   A traffic simulation computer model shall be completed during
the peak highway and development hours, as appropriate, for each study and site
access intersection, where deemed appropriate for complex developments or
developments located near heavily utilized roads or intersections, as
recommended by the Township or the Township Traffic Engineer. The purpose of
this will be for the Township, reviewing agencies, and other interested parties
to visualize the movement of traffic upon completion of the proposed
development and any associated traffic improvements.
      G.   Proposed Improvements. A description of proposed improvements to
remedy and otherwise mitigate for deficiencies and impacts, as established by
the analyses required herein, shall be identified, as follows:
         (1)   Improvements shall be identified which would increase capacity
to return to pre-development levels of service. Improvements shall be presented
for post-development traffic volumes to operate at level-of service D or better
for all movements and the overall intersection. The improvements identified
shall ensure that under no circumstances will the levels of service be worse
than pre-development conditions. For individual movements and overall
intersections that function at level-of service E or F, the volume capacity
ratio and delay shall be no worse than pre-development conditions.
         (2)   The description of improvements shall describe the location,
nature, and schedule, as well as the party responsible for the improvements.
The listing of recommended improvements shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following elements: internal circulation design; site access
design location; traffic signal installation/operation; roadway/intersection
widening, capacity or reconfiguration improvements; new roadways; and other
geometric safety improvements deemed appropriate. Although the improvement
recommendations shall be consistent with any current Transportation Capital
Improvement Plan of the Township, the improvements listed in the Transportation
Capital Improvement Plan shall not be considered unless they are planned within
a reasonable schedule, as directed by the Township.
         (3)   A volume/capacity analysis shall be presented demonstrating the
anticipated operating conditions of the study intersections upon implementation
of any recommended improvements. The level of service results of the volume/
capacity analysis shall be presented graphically.
         (4)   Access design recommendations shall be provided consistent with
the design requirements of the Township and/or the guidelines of the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, including the following:
            (a)   The available safe stopping sight distance measurements for
egressing and left-turn ingressing movements shall be indicated for each
access, and recommendations shall be provided for any access location that does
not provide sufficient sight distance in accordance with the applicable
requirements, which may include relocation of the proposed access, provision of
separate turning lanes, roadway improvements, or turning restrictions.
            (b)   The necessity for auxiliary turn lanes at each site access
intersection shall be identified per Township requirements minimally based on
current design guidelines of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
            (c)   All access points and pedestrian crossings shall be examined
as to the need for and feasibility of installing traffic signals or other
traffic control devices, pursuant to the guidelines and traffic signal warrants
of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
            (d)   Access Management. Shared access, access easements,
established or floating cross easements, driveways interconnections, shared
parking, and parking easements shall be provided with adjoining lots, where
appropriate and deemed necessary by the Board of Supervisors. When it is not
yet appropriate to construct driveway interconnections, shared access, shared
parking, or cross access easements shall be recorded for future use.
            (e)   The safety of vehicles and pedestrians utilizing the proposed
access shall be considered and improvements incorporated into the access
design, if deemed appropriate by the Board based on recommendations by either
the Township Engineer or the Township Traffic Engineer.
      H.   Conclusions and Recommended Improvements. Levels of service for all
roadways and intersections shall be identified at the conclusion of each phase
of the development, and a level of service matrix shall be provided for
comparison of the levels of service. All roadways and/or intersections showing
a level of service below “D” shall be considered deficient, and specific
recommendations for the elimination of these traffic problems shall be
identified. Also, improvements shall be offered to ensure that vehicular queues
can be accommodated to provide efficient access and mobility to/from the
proposed development for pedestrian and vehicular traffic. This listing of
recommended improvements shall include, but not be limited to the following
elements: internal circulation design, site access location and design,
external roadway and intersection design improvements, traffic signal
installation and operation including signal timing, and transit design
improvements. All physical roadway improvements shall be shown in sketches.
Where appropriate, traffic calming measures shall be considered and identified
and incorporated into the site design in order to discourage cut-through
traffic and to reduce the travel speed of vehicles traveling through the
development. Likewise, best access management practices for the safe and
efficient movement of all modes of transportation shall be applied.
   Existing and/or future public transportation service shall also be
addressed. A listing of all actions to be undertaken to increase present public
transportation usage and improve service, if applicable shall be included.
   The listing of recommended improvements for roadways, transit, pedestrian
and bicycle facilities shall include, for each improvement, the party
responsible for the improvement, the cost and funding of the improvement and
the completion date for the improvement.
   7.   Time of Submission. The traffic impact study shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission with the preliminary plan submittal. Improvement plans for
permits shall not be submitted to PennDOT until after review by the Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors.
   8.   Implementation. The Board of Supervisors shall review the traffic
impact study to analyze its adequacy in solving any traffic problems that will
occur due to the land development or subdivision. The Board of Supervisors may
decide that certain improvements contained on and/or adjacent to the site and
within the study area are necessary for land development or subdivision plan
approval and may attach these conditions to the approval. If the Township
concludes that additional improvements or modifications are necessary, beyond
those recommended by the applicant the applicant shall have the opportunity to
re-submit alternative improvements designs to obtain plan approval. The Board
of Supervisors may request additional analysis and may also impose upon the
applicant additional improvements deemed necessary to accommodate impacts of
the development.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 406)
§ 407 Sewage Facilities.
   1.   General. The applicant shall submit the following information for
review to insure that the proposed method of sewage collection, treatment, and
disposal is adequate to serve the proposed subdivision or land development. The
evaluation must establish that each proposed lot, building or structure will be
served by an appropriate sewage system.
   2.   Development Applications. The applicant shall make application to the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) which shall
determine whether or not the application will require submission of planning
modules. The applicant shall provide written verification of the decision of
PADEP to the Township.
   3.   If PADEP determines that planning modules are required for the proposed
development, then the following steps must be taken.
      A.   In order to be deemed a complete subdivision or land development
application, any application for preliminary subdivision or land development
approval must be accompanied by a duly completed Department of Environmental
Protection sewage facilities planning module. Such planning module shall also
meet all the requirements contained in 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 71.
      B.   Such application and planning module shall meet all the procedural
and content requirements of 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 71, Subchapters 71.52 and
71.53, including the requirement that they be accompanied by the comments on
the planning module of the Bucks County Health Department and the Bucks County
Planning Commission. Evidence that the sewage facilities planning module has
been before these agencies for 60 days without comment shall be sufficient to
satisfy this requirement.
      C.   The Township shall review and act upon the planning modules in
accordance with the requirements and criteria set forth in 25 Pa.Code, Chapter
71, and may refuse to adopt a proposed revision to its official sewage
facilities plan for new land development for reasons including, but not limited
to, the following:
         (1)   The plan is not technically or administratively able to be
implemented.
         (2)   Present and future sewage disposal needs of the area, remaining
acreage or delineated lots are not adequately addressed.
         (3)   The plan is not consistent with the Township land use plans and
ordinances, this Ordinance, or other ordinances or plans controlling land use
or development.
         (4)   The plan is not consistent with the comprehensive sewage program
of the Township as contained in its official sewage facilities plan.
         (5)   The plan does not meet the consistency requirements set forth in
25 Pa.Code, Chapter 71, subsection 71.21(a)(5)(i)-(iii).
      D.   When the Township refuses to adopt a proposed revision to the
official sewage facilities plan, it shall state the reasons for the refusal and
forward a copy of this statement to the person making the submission and to
PADEP.
      E.   When the Township adopts the proposed revisions to the official
sewage facilities plan, the Township shall forward the proposed revisions to
the Department with the information required by 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 71,
subsection 71.52. Adoption of the proposed revisions of the official plan shall
be by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
      F.   Approval of the planning modules by PADEP shall be a condition of
subdivision or land development plan approval by the Township.
   4.   Requirements for Final Plan Approval.
      A.   Where on-lot sewage disposal is proposed, final plan approval shall
not be granted for any subdivision or land development until satisfactory
evidence has been presented by the applicant to the Township that the Bucks
County Health Department and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection have determined that the lots proposed for subdivision are generally
suitable for on-lot septic systems and provided further that a note shall be
placed on the final plans as follows:
   “The planning module for land development has been approved by PADEP and the
Bucks County Department of Health as to the subdivision plan. However, the
septic system permit has not been issued for the lot(s) upon which new building
(s) are proposed. Prior to issuance of a building permit, a septic system
permit shall be obtained and presented to the Zoning Officer for each new
building.”
      B.   Where public sewage disposal is proposed, written confirmation of
“willingness to serve” from the servicing authority must be submitted to the
Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 407)
§ 408 Water Resources Impact Study.
   1.   A water resources impact study is required for each major subdivision
of five or more lots and for each commercial, institutional, and industrial
land development in the Township. The purpose of the study is to determine if
there is an adequate water supply to serve the proposed use and to estimate the
impact of the additional water use on existing nearby wells, underlying
aquifers, and surface water bodies. Any proposed water system or on-lot water
supply for a major subdivision or land development which does not provide an
adequate water supply for use, or which adversely affects nearby wells or
streams shall not be approved by the Township and shall be cause for denial of
the subdivision or land development plans. An impact study may be waived by the
Township, when the development is proposed to be served by an existing public
water distribution system.
   2.   The Township Engineer and/or other consultants appointed by the
Township, shall be involved in the water impact study as the Township feels is
necessary and appropriate. All costs incurred by the Township for the water
impact study shall be reimbursed by the developer.
   3.   The adequacy of the water supply shall be determined based upon the
following assumptions:
      A.   An average three and one-half persons per dwelling unit.
      B.   Each person is assumed to use 75 gallons of water per day.
   4.   The water resources impact study shall be prepared by a qualified
hydrogeologist and a Professional Engineer registered in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and shall include the following:
      A.   Calculations of the projected water needs using the criteria set
forth in the following references:
         (1)   Public Water Supply Manual, Bureau of Water Quality Management,
Publication Number 15, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection,
Harrisburg, PA.
         (2)   Guide for Determination of Required Fire Flow, by the Insurance
Services Office (ISO) as modified.
         (3)   American Water Works Association, standards and manuals for the
American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
      B.   A geological map of the area within a 1-mile radius of the site.
      C.   The location of all faults, lineaments, and fracture traces within ¼
mile of the site.
      D.   The location of all existing and proposed wells within ¼ mile of the
site and of all large withdrawal wells (10,000 gallons per day or more) within
1 mile of the site.
      E.   The location of all existing and proposed on-lot septic systems
within ¼ mile of the site.
      F.   The location of all streams, perennial and intermittent, and all
known point and non-point sources of pollution within ¼ mile of the site.
      G.   A discussion of the aquifer characteristics underlying the site and
their long-term drought recharge capability based on site specific
investigation, except that subdivisions and land development plans not required
to perform pumping tests may base the discussion of long-term drought recharge
capability on accepted published data. Long-term drought recharge capability
shall be defined as the average amount of water that can be withdrawn from an
aquifer during extended periods of low rainfall and/or high temperatures
without adversely affecting existing wells and stream flow in the surrounding
area.
      H.   Based on the drought recharge capability and the calculated daily
groundwater withdrawals of the project, a hydrologic budget shall be estimated
for the site property itself and for the area within ¼-mile radius of the site.
      I.   A determination, aided by the results of the hydrologic budget, of
whether the potential exists for adverse effects on the hydrologic environment
by the proposed subdivision or land development.
      J.   A statement of qualifications of the person(s) preparing the study.
   5.   In addition to requirements of §
408.4, when a centralized or public water supply and distribution system is
proposed a groundwater monitoring plan approved by the Township shall be
established and shall include the following:
      A.   At least one test well shall be constructed for each well to be
drilled. During construction the driller shall keep an accurate geological log
of the type and thickness of rocks encountered and of the depth and thickness
of all water bearing zones encountered and the yield from each zone.
      B.   Samples shall be collected every 20 feet during drilling and at
every change in rock type. Each sample shall be placed in a non-breakable
container and shall be made available to the Township and/or Township Engineer.
      C.   The following procedures shall apply to the pump test(s):
         (1)   Prior to pumping, the static water level shall be recorded in
all wells, including test wells and monitoring wells.
         (2)   The test well shall be pumped at a flow rate of 150 percent of
the intended long term withdrawal until the water level has stabilized.
         (3)   When the water level has stabilized, a yield test of not less
than 48 hours shall be performed at a rate of not less than 150 percent of the
intended long term withdrawal. The constant pumping rate shall not deviate more
than 5 percent. An interruption of the test pumping shall require extension of
the test period subject to approval by the Township.
         (4)   A theis curve shall be produced from the pump test which shall
be reviewed by the Township to determine whether discharge rates are to be
considered acceptable for the purposes of yield testing.
   6.   In the case where the additional requirements of §
408.5.A pertain, records must be compiled in typewritten form and provided to
the Township and shall include the following information:
      A.   Name of the driller and personnel conducting the test.
      B.   Complete description of the test well or wells to include the
horizontal and vertical dimensions, casing installed, and grouting details.
      C.   List of formation samples.
      D.   Static water level immediately prior to yield testing.
      E.   Hydrograph of depth to water surface during test pumping and
recovery period at the test well or wells showing corresponding pump and
discharge rate in gallons per minute and the time readings were taken.
      F.   Log of depth to water surface of existing and monitoring wells
during test pumping period showing time readings were taken.
   7.   A report shall be prepared and submitted to the Township and shall
accompany the submission of the test well data. The report shall analyze and
interpret all of the data as to the impact on the groundwater supply and
existing wells. Conclusions shall be drawn from the analysis as to the
appropriateness of the site for the proposed water supply and distribution
system. The credentials of the individual(s) preparing the report shall be
included.
   8.   The complete submission to the Township shall include any and all
applications, reports, or supplemental information submitted to the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and/or Delaware River Basin
Commission.
   9.   A developer required to drill monitoring wells as part of the water
resources impact study shall provide to the Township a perpetual easement
allowing the Township access to the monitoring wells for the purpose of ongoing
monitoring of water levels in the Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 409)
§ 409 Carbonate Geology Study.
   A carbonate geology study prepared pursuant to requirements of §
509.2.I of the Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted with each preliminary
subdivision and/or land development application located within areas of the
Township underlain by carbonate bedrock such as limestone and dolomite as shown
in the map of the Durham Valley, Geologic Features contained in the report
Conservation and Management Practices for Buckingham and Durham Carbonate
Valley, published by the Bucks County Planning Commission, February, 1985, or
identified within the Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan prepared by
Durham Township Environmental Advisory Council, 2000.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 409)
§ 410 Wetland Delineation.
   When the National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) Maps indicate wetlands on a site
or when a site contains hydric soils, or an area of predominance of wetlands
vegetation, an on-site investigation shall be conducted to determine if
wetlands are present on the site. A landowner or an applicant shall use one of
the following methods to delineate wetlands:
      A.   Wetlands must be delineated by a qualified specialist according to
the 1989 Federal Manuals (as amended) for the Delineation of Jurisdictional
Wetlands (whichever is greater) or according to any subsequent Federal or State
regulation. Qualified specialist shall include those persons being Certified
Professional Soil Scientists as registered with Registry of Certified
Professionals in Agronomy Crops and Soils (ARCPACS); or as contained on
consultant’s list of Pennsylvania Association of Professional Soil Scientists
(PAPSS); or as registered with the National Society of Consulting Soil
Scientists (NSCSS), or as certified by State and/or Federal certification
programs. The study shall be submitted with sufficient detail to allow a
thorough review by the Township. The study must be approved by the Board of
Supervisors.
      B.   A jurisdictional determination by the Army Corps of Engineers shall
be considered but shall not be the sole determination as to the status of the
wetlands where that determination conflicts with a Wetlands Study performed by
another qualified wetlands consultant. The Board of Supervisors of the Township
shall make the final determination.
      C.   All wetland delineation studies are subject to review and acceptance
by the Township. The Township may require an independent review of the wetland
delineation provided by the applicant, with the Township selecting a qualified
professional after notification to the applicant, and with the applicant
responsible to pay the costs of such review. In the event of a dispute, the
delineation that provides the greatest restriction to development or
disturbance of the resource applies.
      D.   Alternatively, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the wetland study
requirement by agreeing to the limits of the regulated wetland as determined by
the Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 410)
§ 411 Narrative Summary of Proposed Development.
   1.   Application and Purpose. The following information must be prepared in
a narrative format for all land developments and major subdivisions. The
information requested below is the minimum requirement. Additional information
or detail may be requested by the Township Supervisors at their option. This
information shall be utilized for information purposes only during the Township
plan review process.
   2.   Information Required.
      A.   Owner of record.
      B.   Tax parcel number(s) and deed book page number where needed.
      C.   Site gross and net lot areas.
      D.   Existing street access and frontages, specifying names, route
numbers, existing and ultimate rights-of-way, cartway width, and condition and
circumstances which may affect the road’s future use.
      E.   Existing property restrictions, including all special purpose or
utility easements or rights-of-way.
      F.   Zoning classification on site and adjoining parcels.
      G.   Location and size of existing utilities, including, but not limited
to, sewer, water and storm water management facilities.
      H.   A brief description of site topography, including grades, high and
low elevations, vegetation, streams, and other waterbodies or wetlands.
      I.   Existing structures including approximate age and any known
historical significance of the site or existing structures.
      J.   Proposed land use(s), including, but not limited to, dwelling unit
types and percent mix, nonresidential uses, and percent of proposed uses,
bedroom mix, lot sizes, densities, and open space location and size.
      K.   Development phasing, when applicable.
      L.   Approximate construction period, i.e., the start-up and close-down
of project construction.
      M.   The following additional information shall be provided for
nonresidential uses. Information shall address the initial conditions proposed
and the expected future maximum condition:
         (1)   Description of use/business(s) proposed to occupy the property.
         (2)   Hours of operation.
         (3)   Maximum number of employees on each shift.
         (4)   Number and type of vehicles to be stored on site.
         (5)   Amount and type of outdoor storage required.
         (6)   Frequency and typical time of deliveries to the facility.
   3.   Land Use Compatibility Information.
      A.   A description of the surrounding land uses, specify types,
condition, distances, and overall character, taking special note of
environmental features protected by §
509, “Environmental Protection Standards,” of the Zoning Ordinance, such as
flood plains, lakes, ponds, wetlands, streams and watercourses, steep slopes,
woodlands, specimen trees, carbonate geology, and productive agricultural
soils.
      B.   A narrative evaluation of the proposed development impacts on the
surrounding land uses, with emphasis on visual, air, and noise aspects of the
proposed development. Also, included in this evaluation must be the required or
desirable screening and buffering facilities and open space areas.
   4.   Narrative shall be updated and resubmitted at time of final plan
submission based on modifications/additions to the plan made pursuant to
preliminary plan review/conditions of approval.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 411)
Article 5
General Design Standards
§ 501 Application.
   The following principles, standards and requirements will be applied by the
Township to evaluate plans for proposed subdivision or land developments. The
standards and requirements outlined herein shall be considered minimum
standards and requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
general welfare. Where literal compliance with the standards herein specified
is clearly impractical, the Board of Supervisors may modify or adjust the
standards to permit reasonable utilization of property while securing
substantial conformance with the objectives of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 501)
§ 502 General Standards.
   1.   All portions of a tract being subdivided or developed shall be taken up
in lots, streets, public lands or other proposed uses so that remnants and
landlocked areas shall not be created.
   2.   Reserve strips controlling access to lots, public rights-of-way, public
lands or adjacent private lands shall be prohibited unless their control is
placed with the Township under conditions of the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   Lot lines shall follow Township boundary lines rather than cross them.
   4.   Subdivisions, land developments, and locations of structures shall be
laid out so as to avoid the necessity for excessive cut or fill. Excessive cut
or fill shall be defined as site improvements requiring greater than 4 feet of
excavation or backfill. Site disturbance, grading, and/or removal of vegetation
shall be the absolute minimum necessary to meet Ordinance requirements. Natural
drainage patterns and vegetation shall be preserved to maximize infiltration of
water.
   5.   Land subject to flooding or other hazards to life, health, or property
shall not be platted for residential occupancy or for such other uses as may
increase danger to health, life, or property, or aggravate erosion until all
such hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate safeguards against such
hazards are provided by the subdivision plans. Such land within the subdivision
or land development shall be set aside on the plan for uses which shall not be
endangered by periodic or occasional inundation and shall not produce
unsatisfactory living conditions.
   6.   Every possible means shall be provided to preserve trees, groves,
waterways, scenic points, historic spots, or other community assets and
landmarks that are located within a proposed subdivision or land development.
   7.   Proposed subdivisions or land developments shall be coordinated with
existing nearby neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
   8.   Where the preliminary plan includes a portion of a tract which could be
further subdivided or developed under the standards of the Zoning Ordinance,
the applicant shall be required to submit a prospective street/lot layout for
the entire tract which shall respect the Natural Resource Protection Standards
included in Article 5 of the Zoning Ordinance, open space requirements in
Article 5 of the Zoning Ordinance, and street, stormwater management, and
sanitary sewage disposal regulations included within this Article.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 502)
§ 503 Reserved.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 503)
§ 504 Blocks and Lots.
   1.   Residential blocks shall not exceed 1,600 feet in length, nor be less
than 500 feet in length. Block length shall be measured along the centerline of
a street between centerlines of intersecting streets.
   2.   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two
tiers of lots, except for reverse frontage lots which contain frontage on a
local street and either an arterial or a collector street.
   3.   Lot lines intersecting street lines, shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to street lines from the street line to the rear lot line.
“Substantially at right angles” shall mean an intersection angle of not less
than 80 degrees.
   4.   Unless a private street is approved by the Board of Supervisors
pursuant to §
505.15 of this Ordinance, all lots shall front on a street which has already
been dedicated to the Township, or which the subdivider or developer proposes
to dedicate to the Township in connection with approval of the final plan.
   5.   The Township shall assign house numbers to each lot within a
subdivision.
   6.   Minimum lot sizes shall be in accordance with the Township Zoning
Ordinance.
   7.   Remnants of land, smaller than required for a lot, shall not be
permitted within any subdivision unless dedicated to public use and approved by
the Board of Supervisors.
   8.   Reverse frontage lots are prohibited except in accordance with
subsection 2. above. Vehicular access for reverse frontage lots is restricted
to local streets.
   9.   Screening through the use of appropriate plant materials, fences, or
berms subject to site plan review shall be provided along the property line of
lots with reverse frontage to buffer lots from the higher order street.
   10.   Residential lots shall not be created which front upon an arterial or
collector street, as defined in §
506.2 herein.
   11.   Residential lot depth shall not be less than one nor more than three
times the lot width, except for Townhouse lots which shall not exceed 5 to 1
depth to width ratio. Lot depth shall be measured as the average distance from
the ultimate right-of-way line to rear property line. Lot width is the distance
between side property lines measured at the required minimum building setback
line.
   12.   Minimum lot width required by the Zoning Ordinance shall be continuous
along each existing or proposed street upon which the lot abuts.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 504)
§ 505 Street; General.
   1.   Proposed streets shall be properly related to such street plans or
parts thereof as have been officially prepared and adopted by the Township and
shall be coordinated with existing or proposed streets in adjoining
subdivisions or land developments.
   2.   Any developer subdividing or developing a parcel which fronts on a
State highway or proposes access thereto shall be required to obtain a PennDOT
Highway Occupancy permit for any access, improvement, and encroachment within
the roadway right-of-way. No plat which will require access to a highway under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation shall be finally approved
unless the plat contains a notice regarding permit requirements. (Refer sample
in
Appendix “B.”)
   3.   Proposed streets shall further conform to such County and State road
and highway plans as have been prepared, adopted or filed as prescribed by law.
   4.   Centerlines of proposed streets must coincide with centerline of right-
of-way.
   5.   Access shall be given to lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivisions or land development and to adjacent un-subdivided property unless
the topography or natural features clearly indicates that such connection is
not feasible. Streets giving such access shall be improved to the limits of the
subdivision or land development to Township specifications. Reserve strips and
landlocked areas shall not be created.
   6.   Local access streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by
through traffic and, where possible, collector streets shall be designed for
use by through traffic.
   7.   Where the proposed subdivision or land development contains or is
adjacent to an existing or proposed arterial street, provision shall be made
for marginal access streets. The Township may also require rear service areas,
double frontage lots, or such other treatment as will provide protection for
abutting properties, reduction in number of intersections with arterial
streets, and separation of local and through traffic.
   8.   Half or partial streets will not be permitted in new subdivisions or
land developments.
   9.   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit future
street extension into adjoining tracts, or when designed as cul-de-sacs.
Temporary stub streets shall be permitted only if the street is less than 200
feet in length and provides access to two or less dwelling units.
   10.   Street names shall be coordinated with existing or proposed street
names and shall be reviewed by the postmaster. If a new street is a
continuation of, or is aligned with, an existing or proposed street, it shall
bear the same name as the existing or proposed street. All street names shall
be of historical, geographic, topographic, or other local significance. Street
names shall be subject to approval of the Board of Supervisors.
   11.   All street and parking area regulatory signage shall be in accordance
with PA Title 67, PennDOT Publications 236M and Federal Highway Administration
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and shall be installed on
standard PennDOT approved breakaway posts.
   12.   No street shall be laid out or opened which extends to or crosses any
boundary between the Township and any other municipality except with the
specific approval of the Board of Supervisors and upon such condition as the
Township may impose.
   13.   No new street will be permitted which will cause an existing principal
structure to become nonconforming to front yard setback requirements of the
Township Zoning Ordinance.
   14.   When the subdivision or land development abuts an existing street,
drainage improvements shall be made to existing streets. Required improvements
must be extended as necessary to provide positive drainage to existing storm
drainage facilities or drainage channels. Additionally, existing cartways shall
be reconstructed where necessary to establish minimum construction standards of
§
506.5.E. Where reconstruction is not required, leveling with Superpave binder
and/or wearing course material, and overlay with wearing course material is
required to improve the cartway surface. When leveling is required, structural
fabric must be installed between the leveling and wearing course.
   15.   Private streets are permitted only upon approval by the Springfield
Township Board of Supervisors after consideration of a recommendation by the
Springfield Township Planning Commission. The Township considers private
streets only when the benefit to the Township includes significantly lower
density and/or dedication of larger tracts of open space which maintain the
rural character of the Township as called for in the Springfield Township
Comprehensive Plan. Private streets are subject to the following requirements:
      A.   No more than seven lots are permitted to front on a private street.
      B.   A subdivision that proposes a private street must contain an average
lot area of at least 8 acres with no lot less than 5 acres in area.
      C.   Design and construction standards for private streets shall conform
to all applicable requirements of this Ordinance.
      D.   The private street shall be owned and maintained by all abutting
property owners and shall be contained within an easement area delineated by
appropriate bearing and distance information. The easement area shall not be
included in the minimum lot area requirements. A homeowner’s association or
other legal entity suitable to, and approved by, the Board of Supervisors shall
be recorded to properly administer such maintenance responsibilities.
      E.   The Board of Supervisors shall reserve the right to order the
reconstruction of private streets up to then prevailing Township standards and
to order subsequent dedication as a public street if such private street is
deemed by the Township to be a safety or health hazard. Costs of such
reconstruction shall be assessed against all abutting property owners. In no
case shall the Township be required to accept ownership and maintenance
responsibilities of a private street.
      F.   All subdivision plans containing a private street shall be so marked
and shall include a note referencing this Section of this Ordinance.
      G.   Private streets shall be subject to all contract and guaranty
requirements required for public streets and as set forth in Article 7 of this
Ordinance.
   16.   All new residential subdivisions or land developments containing 13
dwelling units or more shall have a minimum of two public street entrances/
exits from public roads so that it is possible to enter the development and
drive through on a continuous road to a second entrance/exit to a public
street. This requirement shall not be satisfied by a divided, boulevard type
entrance; nor shall it be satisfied with an emergency access unless such access
is paved and built to public street standards and is open continuously.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 505; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 506 Street Standards.
   1.   Right-of-Way Widths. Minimum widths for each type of public street
shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street                     Right-of-Way Width
Arterial                           100 feet
Collector                          80 feet
Primary                            64 feet
                                   52 feet or greater depending on development
Local access                       type/on-street parking requirements as
                                   determined by the Board of Supervisors.
Local access-entrance mobile       52 feet for a depth of at least 100 feet
(manufactured) home park           from the public street or road
Local access-interior road mobile  40 feet
(manufactured) home park
 
      A.   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing public
street or road having a right-of-way width less than would be required if said
street or road were created under this Ordinance, sufficient additional width
for right-of-way shall be provided and dedicated to meet the foregoing
standards.
      B.   Additional right-of-way and cartway widths may be required by the
Board of Supervisors to promote public safety and convenience when required by
special conditions and to provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
   2.   Township Street Classification. Streets are classified as follows:
      A.   Arterial: Route 309
      B.   Collector: Passer Road, Route 212, Old Bethlehem Road, State Road,
Richlandtown Pike, Old Bethlehem Pike, Route 412.
      C.   Primary: Bursonville Road, Township Road, Pleasant View Road,
Springtown Hill Road, Cherry Road, Trolley Bridge Road, Lehnenberg Road, Slifer
Valley Road, Gallows Hill Road, Peppermint Road, Drifting Drive, Springfield
Street.
      D.   Local Access: All other roads not classified above as arterial,
collector, or primary.
   3.   Cartway Width.
      A.   Minimum width of paving on existing streets shall not be less than
the following:
 
                                            Cartway Width
Arterial                                    As required by PennDOT regulations
Collector                                   28 feet
Primary                                     28 feet
Local access                                24 feet (26 feet if curb required)
Local access-entrance mobile (manufactured) 28 feet
home park
Local access-interior road mobile           20 feet
(manufactured) home park
 
      B.   Proposed Residential Streets. Proposed residential streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Minimum Requirements
Minimum Lot Size                                     ROW (Feet) Cartway (Feet)
2 Acres or greater                                   52         20
20,000 SF to 1.99 Acres                              52         24
Less than 20,000 SF (Parking permitted one side)**   56         30
Less than 20,000 SF (Parking permitted both sides)** 64         36
**On-street parking requirements determined by Board of Supervisors.
 
      C.   Nonresidential Streets. Nonresidential streets shall have a minimum
right- of-way width of 56 feet. Minimum cartway width shall be 34 feet.
   4.   Design Standards. Design of streets shall conform with PennDOT Design
Manual, Part 2, Highway Design (PDT Pub. 13), and all applicable PennDOT RC
standards, unless specifically modified by this Ordinance.
   5.   Pavement Design.
      A.   All work and materials involved in the construction of roadways
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation Specifications, Form 408, as amended, and shall be noted as such
on the plan.
      B.   The roadbed subgrade shall be prepared to the established subgrade
elevation and compacted to not less than 100 percent of the determined dry-
weight density as set forth in ASTM D 698. Preparation of the subgrade shall
conform to PennDOT Form 408, as amended.
      C.   Subgrade drains shall be placed along all proposed roadways to drain
wet areas. Subgrade drains shall be constructed in accordance with PennDOT Form
408, as amended.
      D.   Utility trench construction (storm sewer, wastewater lines, water
main, gas main, etc.) within existing streets shall be backfilled with 2A
modified stone placed and compacted in 8-inch lifts. The trench shall be paved
with bituminous concrete base course (5-inch compacted depth), bituminous
binder course (Superpave) (1½-inch compacted depth) and the entire cartway
shall be paved with a full width overlayment (edge of road to edge of road) of
bituminous wearing course (Superpave) (1-inch compacted depth). Utility
trenches within proposed street shall be backfilled with clean, dry, select
material and compacted in 8-inch lifts to not less than 100 percent of the
determined dry weight density of the backfill material. Trenches within
easements shall be backfilled with clean, dry, select material and compacted in
12-inch lifts to not less than 100 percent of the determined dry weight density
of the backfill material as set forth in ASTM D 698 and PennDOT Form 408, as
amended. (Refer
Appendix “B.”)
      E.   All roadways covered by these specifications shall be constructed in
accordance with the following standards and in accordance with specifications
as found in PennDOT Form 408, as amended:
         (1)   Subbase. This work consists of construction of a compacted
aggregate (PennDOT #3A) to a depth of 6 inches on a prepared subgrade.
         (2)   Base Course. A bituminous concrete base course to a compacted
minimum depth of 5 inches.
         (3)   Binder Course. A bituminous concrete binder course (superpave)
to a compacted minimum depth of 2 inches shall be provided for all arterial,
collector, and primary streets and all nonresidential streets. A bituminous
tack coat shall be applied to the binder course prior to placement of the final
wearing course.
         (4)   Wearing Course. A bituminous wearing course (superpave) to a
compacted depth of 1½ inches.
      F.   Bituminous paving mixtures shall not be placed when surfaces are wet
or when the temperatures of either the air or the surface on which the mixture
is to be placed is 40 degrees Fahrenheit or lower, or between October 16 and
March 31 in any calendar year unless authorized by the Township Engineer.
   6.   Roadside Barriers. Roadside barriers and guiderail shall be required in
accordance with PennDOT Design Manual, Part 2, Highway Design, Chapter 12. (PDT
Pub. 13) Construction and materials shall be in accordance with applicable
PennDOT RC standards.
   7.   Traffic Control. Vehicular traffic control in work zone areas on and
along streets open to the public shall be in strict accordance to requirements
of PennDOT Publication 203, Work Zone Traffic Control (67 Pa.Code, Chapter
203).
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 506; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 507 Street Name and Stop Signs.
   1.   The developer shall erect at every street intersection street name
signs and stop signs, meeting Township approval, having thereon the names of
both intersecting streets. Name signs shall have mixed case lettering with the
first letter in uppercase followed by lowercase lettering. The initial
uppercase letter shall have a minimum height of 6 inches. Lettering shall be
white on a green background.
   2.   Street name signs and stop signs shall be erected on a street prior to
the first dwelling on that street being occupied, and on all streets providing
access to the dwelling(s) being occupied. Street name signs and stop signs
shall be diamond grade reflective sheeting and installed on PennDOT approved
breakaway posts. Street name signs and stop sign shall not be installed on the
same post.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 507)
§ 508 Streetlights.
   When required by the Township, the owner shall install or cause to be
installed, at the owner’s expense, streetlights serviced by underground conduit
in accordance with a plan to be prepared by the owner’s engineer and approved
by the Township. (Refer §
527 of this Ordinance).
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 508)
§ 509 Cul-de-sac Streets.
   1.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not be permitted unless the applicant can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Township that construction of a through
street is not feasible. Applicant shall submit for review by the Township
aerial mapping with tax map parcels identified which indicate the viability of
potential future street construction to establish the through street.
   2.   Cul-de-sac streets shall be designed to permit future extension into
adjacent undeveloped property. Unless future extension is clearly impractical
or undesirable, the turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a
property line and contained within an easement area. A right-of-way of the same
width as the street shall be carried to the property line in such a way as to
permit future extension of the street into the adjoining tract. At such time as
such a street is extended, the overage created by the turnaround outside the
boundaries of the extended street shall revert in ownership to the property
owners fronting on the cul-de-sac turnaround.
   3.   Permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be kept to a minimum and shall not
exceed 500 feet in length or serve as access to more than 12 dwelling units,
whichever is more restrictive, unless specifically authorized by the Board of
Supervisors. The minimum length of a cul-de-sac shall be 250 feet. For the
purpose of this Ordinance, cul-de-sac streets shall be measured from the
intersection of the right-of-way line with the future right-of-way line of the
existing street to the center of the turnaround area.
   4.   Cul-de-sac streets with curb, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
provided with a turnaround at the closed end having a minimum radius to the
edge of the finished street or curb line of not less than 40 feet. Permanent
cul-de-sac streets shall be provided at the terminus with a right-of-way radius
of 60 feet, and minimum return radii of 50 feet.
   5.   A snow storage area shall be provided along the right-of-way of the
turnaround on all cul-de-sac streets. The snow storage area shall be contained
within an easement not less than 15 feet wide measured from the right-of-way
line along the entire turnaround area. Easement area must be described by
appropriate metes and bounds.
   6.   Commercial and industrial cul-de-sac streets shall be reviewed for
adequacy by the Township Engineer. When deemed necessary by the Township,
additional cartway and/or right-of-way radius may be required.
   7.   P-loops (loop streets from a single access point) shall have an
entrance leg not exceeding 500 feet. The loop of a P-loop shall have a street
length not exceeding 3,000 feet. P-loop streets shall not be utilized in 3
acres minimum lot area subdivisions. The center of a P-loop street shall
contain a minimum of 2 lots or be retained as permanent open space.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 509)
§ 510 Street Alignment.
   1.   Whenever street lines are deflected in excess of 1½ degrees, connection
shall be made by horizontal curves. Long radial curves shall be used rather
than a series of short curves and tangents.
   2.   The minimum radius at the center line for horizontal curves on
collector and arterial streets shall be 300 feet, and for primary and local
access streets the minimum radius shall be 150 feet.
   3.   On primary and local access streets, the minimum tangent between
reverse curves shall be at least 100 feet; on collector and arterial streets,
the minimum tangent shall be at least 250 feet.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 510)
§ 511 Street Grades.
   1.   Minimum centerline grade shall not be less than ¾ percent on streets
with curbs, 1 percent on streets without curbs.
   2.   Maximum grade shall be 8 percent on collector, or arterial, and primary
streets and 12 percent on local access streets.
   3.   Vertical curves shall be used at changes of grade exceeding 1 percent
and shall be designed in relation to the extent of the grade change and to
provide the following minimum sight distance:
      A.   For crests, each 4 percent difference in gradient, use 125 feet
length of curve.
      B.   For sags, each 4 percent difference in gradient, use 100 feet length
of curve.
   4.   Where the grade of any street at the approach to an intersection
exceeds 4 percent, a leveling area shall be provided. The leveling area shall
not be greater than a 4 percent grade for a minimum length of 50 feet from the
edge of the cartway.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 511)
§ 512 Street Intersections.
   1.   Proposed streets shall not intersect with collector, arterial or
primary streets on the same side at intervals of less than 800 feet as measured
from centerline to centerline.
   2.   The distance between centerlines of streets opening onto the opposite
side of a proposed or existing street shall be not less than 150 feet unless
the streets are directly opposite each other.
   3.   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two streets
shall not be permitted.
   4.   Proposed street intersections shall be designed at right angles. The
intersection of a new street with an existing street shall not be at an angle
of less than 75 degrees, except that all intersections with an arterial or
collector street shall be at 90 degrees.
   5.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two local streets shall be
at least 20 feet; and minimum curve radius at an intersection of a local street
and a collector or arterial street shall be at least 25 feet.
   6.   No structure, fence, planting or other obstruction shall be permitted
at an intersection where it will interfere with vehicular sight distance
required pursuant to §
512.7 of this Ordinance.
   7.   Minimum horizontal and vertical sight distances shall be established in
accordance with PennDOT regulation in 67 Pa.Code Chapter 441, as amended.
   8.   Where sidewalks or pedestrian paths exist, intersections shall be
designed and constructed with stop bars and pedestrian crosswalks, either
pattern Thermoplastic or with a patterned/textured paving material. Along major
intersections with arterial or collector streets, or at mid block crossings,
the Township may require installation of patterned concrete or asphalt
crosswalks or other traffic calming measures. Patterned thermoplastic
crosswalks and patterned/textured paving shall conform to PennDOT Publication
111M and Publication 447.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 512)
§ 513 Driveways.
   1.   General.
      A.   Driveways on corner lots shall be located no less than 60 feet from
any street intersection (measured from the intersection of the ultimate right-
of-way lines). Sight distance requirements for all residential and
nonresidential driveways shall be in accordance with PennDOT regulation in 67
Pa.Code Chapter 441. In the case of “T” intersections, a single driveway may be
located directly opposite the intersecting street.
      B.   Driveways to corner lots and reverse frontage lots must gain access
from the street of lower classification when a lot is bounded by streets of two
different classifications as described herein; and must gain access to proposed
streets when new streets are designed as part of the subdivision plan. At
discretion of the Township, corner lots and reverse frontage lots may gain
access to streets of higher order if topographic conditions do not permit
access to the lower order street without excessive cuts or fills.
      C.   All driveways serving single-family dwellings, except shared
driveways, shall be at least 5 feet from any side or rear lot line.
      D.   All driveways serving single-family dwellings shall be a minimum of
8 feet in width with a grade not to exceed 15 percent. Maximum change in grade
at any location on the driveway shall not exceed 8 percent.
      E.   All single-family residential driveways shall be paved at a minimum
from the edge of cartway to the ultimate right-of-way, or for a length of 20
feet, whichever is greater using the following minimum standards:
         (1)   A crushed aggregate base course with a compacted depth of 6
inches.
         (2)   A bituminous binder course (ID-2 or Superpave) with a compacted
depth of 1½ inches.
         (3)   A bituminous wearing course (ID-2 or Superpave) with a compacted
depth of 1 inch.
         (4)   In the case where sidewalks are provided, a concrete driveway
apron shall be required.
      F.   Where an existing roadside drainage swale is too shallow to permit
installation of a driveway pipe, a paved swale may be installed conforming to
requirements of PennDOT regulation of 67 Pa.Code Chapter 441 unless the
anticipated depth of flow across the driveway exceeds ½ inch during the 10-year
return storm. Where the anticipated depth of flow across the driveway exceeds ½
inch during the 10-year return storm, a concrete trench box with steel grate
must be installed. Grates must be recessed below the edge of cartway to
establish a minimum 2 percent slope from the cartway to the grate. Trench boxes
must extend beyond the edge of driveway paving a minimum of 5 feet.
      G.   Driveway Pipes/Trench Drains.
         (1)   Driveway pipes and concrete trench drains must be installed a
minimum of 5 feet from the edge of cartway. Concrete pipes shall include flared
end sections.
         (2)   End of pipes/trench drains must extend a minimum of 5 feet
beyond edge of paving.
         (3)   Minimum pipe/trench drain length is 20 feet.
         (4)   Minimum pipe size shall be 12-inch round or 14 inches x 9 inches
arch.
         (5)   Pipe must be reinforced concrete pipe.
         (6)   Minimum 9 inches of cover must be maintained between top of pipe
and finished paving elevation.
         (7)   Storm drainage conveyance shall be designed for the 25-year
storm event unless otherwise required to convey the 100-year storm event flow
to a stormwater management facility.
      H.   Intersection of single-family driveways with cartways shall be
installed with minimum paving radii of 5 feet at both sides.
      I.   Where curb and sidewalk are required, concrete aprons shall be
poured with a minimum thickness of 6 inches with reinforced wire mesh on a
minimum 4- inch thick bedding of PennDOT 2B stone. All concrete shall be
PennDOT Class “AA” 3,750 psi mix. One-half inch expansion shall be placed
between apron and curb. One-quarter inch score contraction joints shall be
installed at a intervals.
   2.   Shared Residential Driveways.
      A.   Shared residential driveways shall be required for lots with
proposed access to collector and arterial streets unless the applicant can
document to the satisfaction of the Township the necessity of individual
driveways for each lot.
      B.   Shared driveways shall not be permitted on local and primary streets
unless the applicant can document to the satisfaction of the Township that
individual driveways cannot be constructed for each lot and meet all applicable
requirements of this Ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance.
      C.   Minimum driveway width shall be 18 feet with a minimum length of 20
feet.
      D.   Entrance must be paved in accordance with subsection 1.E within the
ultimate right-of-way or for a minimum length of 20 feet (whichever is
greater).
      E.   Intersection of driveways with cartways shall be installed with
minimum paving radii of 10 feet at both sides.
      F.   Driveways must be centered on property lines.
      G.   Shared driveways shall be limited to serving no more than four
single-family dwellings.
      H.   Shared access easements must be identified on the plan by metes and
bounds description; and a maintenance agreement must be executed in a form
satisfactory to the Township Solicitor.
   3.   Nonresidential driveways and parking areas shall be in accordance with
§
524 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 163, 2/28/2012, §513)
§ 514 Curbs.
   1.   Concrete or Belgian block curbs shall be installed on all existing and
proposed streets and parking areas located within multi-family, apartment
building, and nonresidential developments. Curbs shall also be required on new
residential streets in subdivisions or land developments in which the minimum
lot size is less than 2 acres, and all new nonresidential streets. Curbs may
also be required on all streets in any subdivision in which the lot areas
exceed the above minimum, when the center line street grade of any street
exceeds 6 percent; and along all existing streets where deemed necessary by the
Township. In such cases curbs or other drainage controls shall be installed to
properly control surface drainage and protect the streets from erosion. The
requirement of the curbs may be waived at the discretion of the Board of
Supervisors.
   2.   All curbs shall be depressed at intersections to sufficient width to
accommodate wheelchairs and shall be in accordance with the latest PennDOT and
Americans with Disabilities Act standards.
   3.   Plain cement concrete curb shall be 18 inches in depth, placed in
accordance with requirements set forth in the latest edition of PennDOT
Specifications, Form 408. Material shall consist of cement concrete Class “AA”
with a minimum 7-day design compressive strength of 3,000 psi and a minimum 28-
day design compressive strength of 3,750 psi. After completion of the
bituminous paving, Class BM-1 asphalt shall be applied to the joint between the
curb and bituminous paving for a distance of 1 foot from the curb toward the
center of the road to seal the joint between the curb and bituminous paving.
   4.   Belgian block curb/paving shall be sealed in a similar manner as
concrete curb except that the joint sealing material shall be placed after the
bituminous concrete base course and before the final wearing course is placed.
Belgian block curb shall be constructed pursuant to detail contained in
Appendix “A.”
   5.   Curb cuts (driveway depression) shall be a maximum of 1½ inches above
roadway surface, a minimum of 1 inch above the roadway surface, and a minimum
of 14 feet in width. Concrete curb cuts shall have two #5 reinforcing rods
placed for the full length of the depression plus 18 inches on both sides.
   6.   Profile of curb design along existing streets shall be shown on the
plan. Profiles shall be smooth and designed with vertical curves where there is
a change in grade. Breaks in grade shall not be permitted. Existing edge of
road and bottom of curb elevations shall be identified every 50 feet and at
locations specified by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 514)
§ 515 Sidewalks and Bicycle/Pedestrian Paths.
   1.   Sidewalks or bicycle/pedestrian paths are required along both sides of
all existing and proposed streets unless waived by the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Along a proposed street with curb, concrete sidewalks shall be provided
on both sides of the street. Along existing perimeter roads, asphalt bicycle/
pedestrian paths may be provided in-lieu-of concrete sidewalks. Bicycle/
pedestrian paths may be constructed with brick or slate stamped (and painted)
concrete or asphalt. Pattern and color stamping shall be approved by the
Township.
   3.   Sidewalks and bicycle/pedestrian paths shall be located within a public
right- of-way, public easement, or common open space area.
   4.   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of 4 feet. Bicycle/pedestrian
paths shall have a minimum width of 8 feet.
   5.   Sidewalks shall be all weather and constructed of 4-inch thick, 3,750
psi Class “AA” concrete on a 4-inch PennDOT 2B stone base. At driveways,
sidewalks shall have a minimum depth 6 inches of concrete and be reinforced
with wire mesh.
   6.   All sidewalks shall be finished using methods that will provide a skid-
resistant surface and be treated with a breathable sealant.
   7.   Curb depressions designed to accommodate wheelchairs shall be provided
at street and other crossings and shall be in accordance with the latest
standards of PennDOT and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   8.   Sidewalks shall be laterally pitched at a slope of ¼ inch per foot to
provide for adequate surface drainage.
   9.   Bicycle/Pedestrian Construction Standards. Bicycle/pedestrian paths
shall conform to the following construction standards:
      A.   The near edge of the path shall not be less than 6 feet from the
edge of cartway along any street.
      B.   Paths shall be a minimum of 8 feet wide.
      C.   Paths shall as near as possible follow the contour lines of the
particular area where the paths are to be installed.
      D.   Curb ramps shall be the same width as the path and shall be
installed to permit the crossing at intersecting streets; curb ramps shall have
a maximum slope of 12 to 1 sides having maximum slope of 10 to 1.
      E.   Paths shall be constructed of 6 inches of aggregate base of gravel,
with 4 inches of asphalt or concrete surface course. Use of pervious asphalt or
concrete is desirable where soil conditions permit infiltration.
      F.   All paths shall be constructed in such a manner to ensure adequate
and proper drainage, and to prevent the path from being inundated by surface
drainage. The path shall also be designed to prevent stormwater flow along the
path.
      G.   Path Markings and Signs. Stop signs shall be posted on the path
where the path intersects driveways and streets. Stop signs shall be 8-inch
octagonal signs. Signs shall be installed on a 4-inch by 4-inch post that is
weather resistant and mounted 4 feet above the ground surface. The sign post
shall be placed in the ground to a minimum depth of 3 feet.
   10.   Within open space and recreational facilities, pedestrian paths shall
be concrete, asphalt, wood chips or stone subject to approval by the Board of
Supervisors. Width and design cross sections shall be subject to approval by
the Township. Design centerline profile of pedestrian paths shall be shown on
the plan. Location of the pedestrian path centerline must be defined by
detailed bearing and distance information. Where pedestrian paths are designed
for combined use with bicycles, centerline grades and curves shall be designed
as specified by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 515)
§ 516 Landscaping and Street Trees.
   1.   General Landscaping Requirements.
      A.   Landscape buffers may contain deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs,
groundcovers, berms, fences or a combination of these features, for the
purposes of separating one land use from another land use or to shield or block
lights, noise or visual impacts and/or to preserve the natural landscape of
Springfield Township.
      B.   No structures, buildings, storage of materials, or parking shall be
permitted in the buffer area unless specifically approved by the Board of
Supervisors. Access driveways may cross buffer areas in order to connect the
street with a parking area or driveway outside the buffer area. Trails and
sidewalks may be located within a required buffer when authorized by the Board
of Supervisors provided that the required planting is not diminished.
Stormwater management basins and grading required for basin berms/slopes
constructed as part of a stormwater management plan shall not be permitted in a
required buffer unless specifically approved by the Board of Supervisors.
      C.   Where vegetation exists that meet the objectives and planting
standards of the buffer requirements, it shall be preserved and may be used to
meet the buffer and planting requirements. Photo documentation of the existing
vegetated condition must be submitted for review. Quantities, size, species,
genus, and locations of existing materials must be shown on the plans and
verified by the Township. Where the Township allows existing vegetation to be
counted toward meeting the buffer requirements, including berm requirements of
this Ordinance, the vegetation shall not be removed except for dead plants, or
exotic invasive species, and noxious weeds as defined by Act 72 of 1994, as
amended. Additional plantings shall be required if the existing vegetation is
not adequate to meet the buffer standards for density, width, or size. The
vegetation shall be protected by recorded plan note to ensure that it remains
as a part of the subdivision or land development.
      D.   Any plant material which does not survive, exhibits poor growth
habits, is diseased, is missing, or is damaged by deer or natural causes within
18 months from the date of acceptance by the Township, or 18 months following
installation of replacement landscape material, whichever is greater, shall be
replaced by the developer.
      E.   Financial security shall be posted with the Township in an amount
equal to the estimated cost of the trees and plantings to be released 18 months
from Township acceptance of the installation or installation of replacement
trees pursuant to subsection 1.D above.
      F.   Prior to acceptance of street tree installation/replacement and
prior to acceptance of the 18-month maintenance period, all street trees must
be pruned to provide a clear zone of 7 feet above the sidewalk (if existing)
and curb. Tree branches shall be pruned in accordance with the standards of the
Tree Care Industry Association (formerly the National Arborist Association).
      G.   All plant material shall be protected from deer damage. Any material
damaged by deer prior to Township acceptance and/or completion of a maintenance
period must be replaced by the developer.
      H.   All plantings shall be able to survive soot, gas fumes and salt.
Trees which have low growing branches, gum or moisture which may drop on
vehicles; or blossoms, thorns, seeds or pods which may clog drainage
facilities, shall not be installed adjacent to streets, parking lots,
sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and drainage facilities.
   2.   Plant Material Specifications.
      A.   Names of plants shall agree with the nomenclature of Standard Plant
Names, as adopted by the American Joint Committee on Horticulture Nomenclature,
1942 edition, as amended; size and grading standards shall conform to those
specified by the American Association of Nurserymen in the latest edition of
the USDA Standards for Nursery Stock. No substitutions shall be permitted
except by written permission of the Township.
      B.   All plants shall be typical of their species or variety and shall
have normal, well-developed branches and vigorous fibrous root systems. All
plants shall be nursery-grown unless otherwise stated and shall have been
growing under the same climate conditions as Springfield Township for at least
2 years prior to the date of planting. Written verification of nursery/location
shall be provided to the Township for approval prior to installation. All
plants which are found unsuitable in growth or condition or which are not true
to name shall be removed and replaced with acceptable plants. No plants with
trunk damage or scarring shall be permitted to be installed. All nursery
installed trunk wrapping must be removed at the time of installation to permit
inspection of the trunk condition.
      C.   Preparation of Plants. All precautions customary in good trade
practice shall be taken in preparing plants for moving. All balled and
burlapped plants shall be dug to meet or exceed the USDA Standards for Nursery
Stock.
      D.   Delivery. Plants shall be packed, transported, and handled with the
utmost care to ensure adequate protection against injury.
      E.   Pruning. Each plant shall be pruned to preserve the natural
character of the plant in a manner appropriate to the particular requirements.
Branches should be thinned by approximately 25 percent by removal of crossing,
damaged, or competing limbs back to the major crotch. The leader is to be left
intact. Pruning shall comply with ANSI A300 Tree Pruning Best Management
Practices (Revised 2008).
      F.   Required plant material shall meet the genus, species, and minimum
size requirements as specified in the Township’s Plant List contained in
Appendix “E” of this Ordinance.
      G.   Installation.
         (1)   All street trees and buffer trees to be installed shall be
balled and burlapped in accordance with American Association of Nurserymen
Standards. The ball depth shall be not less than 60 percent of the ball
diameter, and in all cases, contain the maximum of the fibrous roots of the
tree. The following standards shall apply:
 
Caliper        Minimum Ball Diameter
2½ to 3 inches28 inches
3 to 3½ inches32 inches
3½ to 4 inches36 inches
4 to 5 inches  44 inches
5 to 6 inches  54 inches
 
         (2)   Excavated plant pits shall be a minimum 2 feet wider than the
ball size.
         (3)   Backfill mix for the excavated plant pit area shall be composed
of topsoil, compost, or other recommended material.
         (4)   Trees shall be supported in accordance with American National
Standards (ANSI) A 300 requirements. Tree guying shall be removed 1 year after
planting.
         (5)   If used, tree wrapping paper shall not be installed prior to
delivery to the project site. All tree wrapping material shall be removed 1
year after planting.
         (6)   All plantings shall be mulched to a depth of 3 inches in a 6-
foot diameter ring around the base of each tree or continuous beds if trees or
shrubs are less than 6 feet apart.
   3.   Street Landscaping.
      A.   Trees within the right-of-way of a Township street shall not be
removed without Township approval except within the clear sight triangle, or
removal of invasive species, dead trees, or trees determined by the Township to
be in poor health.
      B.   Street trees shall be planted along all existing and proposed
streets within any land development or major subdivision where suitable street
trees do not exist. Street trees shall not be required for a minor subdivision.
Trees shall not be planted opposite each other but shall alternate.
      C.   Street trees shall be planted within the street right-of-way except
where the Township agrees suitable trees are already in place. (Refer
Appendix “A,” “Typical Roadway Half-Section.”)
      D.   Street trees shall be selected and coordinated to provide adequate
separation from overhead and underground utilities. (Refer
Appendix “E.”)
      E.   “Medium to large” street trees shall be planted at intervals of not
more than 40 feet “Small” street trees shall be planted at intervals not to
exceed 30 feet. (Refer
Appendix “E.”)
      F.   Existing streets within the AD, RP, and RR Zoning Districts shall be
landscaped in a “naturalistic” manner with material/quantity subject to
approval by the Township.
      G.   Street trees shall meet the following standards:
         (1)   At the time of planting, medium to large street trees shall have
a trunk diameter of not less than 3 inches measured 6 inches above grade; small
street trees shall have a trunk diameter of not less than 2.5 inches measured 6
inches above grade.
         (2)   Branching Height. The height of branching shall bear a
relationship to the size, species, and location of the tree. Trees selected for
street tree use between curb and sidewalk shall have a minimum clearance height
of 7 feet above grade before branching begins.
   4.   Landscaping of Parking Areas. Any subdivision or land development
application that includes an off-street parking facility shall propose
landscaping of all such facilities. An off-street parking facility includes the
designated parking areas and any appurtenant surfaced areas upon which a
vehicle is designed to maneuver, including, but not limited to, all parking
stalls, loading areas, driveways, and areas for maneuvering. Every off-street
parking facility shall be landscaped so that 50 percent of each facility will
be shaded with trees based upon the anticipated tree crowns at maturity.
Development of such canopy shall be in accordance with the following:
      A.   The amount of facility that will be shaded at maturity shall be
determined by using the appropriate percentage of the crown based upon whether
the tree is a medium to large tree or small tree as included within the
Deciduous Tree List (Refer
Appendix “E” of this Ordinance), and on their location relative to the parking
facility. A 35-foot diameter crown shall be utilized for trees included on the
Medium to Large Deciduous Tree List; a 20-foot diameter crown shall be utilized
for trees included on the Small Tree Deciduous List.
      B.   Trees not included on the Medium to Large Deciduous Tree List or
Small Deciduous Tree List may be used as parking lot shade trees, if approved
by the Township. No one species shall comprise more than 25 percent of the
total number of parking lot trees.
      C.   Trees (existing trees to be preserved and proposed trees) shall
receive 25 percent, 50 percent, 75 percent, or 100 percent shading credit based
upon their location relative to the parking area. Areas where canopies overlap
shall not be counted twice. Where the actual tree crown based upon species/
location is less than one of the established percentage increments, the credit
shall be “rounded” down to the next increment. (For example: If a crown will
result in a large tree having an 800 SF of shading, the shading credit is
reduced to 75 percent (722 SF) based upon the shading credit chart). If the
site has two or more separate parking areas, the amount of shading shall be
calculated separately for each facility. Refer
Appendix “C.”
 
Shading Credit Chart
                     100 percent 75 percent 50 percent 25 percent
Medium to Large Tree 962 SF      722 SF     481 SF     240 SF
Small Tree           314 SF      236 SF     157 SF     79 SF
 
      D.   A parking facilities shading plan shall be submitted with any
subdivision or land development application including an off-street parking
facility. The plan shall clearly show (graphically) all surfaced areas included
in the calculation of the amount of the facility to be shaded. Trees shall be
drawn to scale representing the canopy size at maturity as listed in the
Deciduous Tree List.
         (1)   The shading plan shall also include a table identifying the
quantity and type of trees used; the percentage of shade credited to each; and
their corresponding canopy size.
         (2)   All off-street parking facilities shall be indicated on the
shading plan, and the total area calculated shall be noted in the shade
calculation table. Surfaced areas for automobile dealerships, lumber yards, and
similar facilities as determined by the Township that are used for display,
sales, service, and vehicle storage may be relieved of 50 percent shading
requirements as follows:
            (a)   The Township may accept a fee-in-lieu-of the 50 percent
shading requirement, equivalent to the cost of planting the trees required for
50 percent shade coverage, or,
            (b)   The Township may accept an applicant’s offer to plant the
required number/size of trees on riparian areas that may or may not be owned by
the Township, or other Township owned property as designated by the Township.
         (3)   Sample Shade Calculation Table.
 
           Botanical 100%
Tree Label Name/     Shading 75% Shading 50% Shading 25% Shading Total
           Common    Credit  Credit (SF) Credit (SF) Credit (SF) Credit (SF)
           Name      (SF)
T1
T2
T3
Total Tree Shade
Total Paved Area
Percent of Shade Coverage
 
      E.   A minimum 6 feet by 6 feet planting area shall be provided for each
tree planted in a tree well or planter strip. A minimum 4 feet by 8 feet
planting area shall be provided for each tree planted in an island planter.
Planter dimensions are measured from the interior side of the curb or other
impervious surface. Centerline of trees must be planted at a minimum 24 inches
from the face of curb or other impervious surface (where curb is not utilized).
A 2-foot overhang for vehicles into the planter area is allowed as long as
trees are installed a minimum of 4 feet from the edge of the parking area.
      F.   Planting areas shall contain soil, shrubs, and/or living groundcover
with 2 inches of natural bark or root mulch. Dyed mulch may not be utilized.
Interlocking pavers may also be utilized in heavily used areas.
      G.   Proper planting is essential to achieve the best growth of the tree.
This includes, but is not limited to: tree handling, tree spacing, tree well
size, soil composition, irrigation, and maintenance. The entire tree planting
area (tree well, island or strip) shall be excavated to a depth of 3 feet. The
planter area shall be backfilled with native soil and necessary amendment prior
to tree planting. All planting areas shall have a minimum of 12 inches, of
topsoil.
   5.   Open Space Plantings.
      A.   The applicant shall provide a method of physically delineating open
space areas from private lots. Such methods shall include shrubs, trees,
markers, fencing or other methods acceptable to the Township. Trees, shrubs,
markers or fencing shall be placed on the linked open space at its boundary.
Where hedge plant material is provided as screening or a barrier between
private lots and open space, additional markers or plant material for
delineation are not necessary.
      B.   A plan for control of noxious weeds, as defined by the Noxious Weed
Control Law (Act 72 of 1994, as amended) and Invasive Plants as listed by the
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, shall be submitted for
approval by the Township for all open space areas. The control plan may include
periodic cutting, grubbing, foliar spray, basal bark herbicide application,
soil application, or a combination of methods. Control plan approved by the
Township shall be determined based upon the extent of infestation, quality of
native vegetation, existing natural resources (floodplains, wetlands, steep
slopes), natural habitat disturbance, etc. Herbicide applications must receive
Township approval prior to use in a riparian corridor. Noxious weeds and
invasive plants are listed in
Appendix “F” of this Ordinance.
      C.   Open space areas not existing as forest or proposed as natural areas
(e.g., wetland) shall be established in meadow, turf grass, or lawn; or
established as forest. Open space areas to be dedicated to the Township and to
remain “natural” which are field/meadow, shall be planted with native tree
species to establish forest.
         (1)   A planting plan which identifies tree species, genus, size, and
spacing; and ground cover/preparation shall be submitted with the preliminary
plan application and is subject to approval by the Township.
         (2)   The planting plan shall, at a minimum, provide for the
installation of one tree per 100 square feet of reforestation area. Trees shall
have a minimum height of 2 feet at the time of installation. Bare root plants
shall be planted between October 15 and December 1. Potted plants shall be
planted between March 15 and May 1. Trees shall be fertilized, mulched, and
staked and, protected from deer browsing. Species shall be approved native
hardwoods. (Refer
Appendix “E.”)
         (3)   Township-owned open space may be designated and remain in
agricultural use pursuant to Zoning Ordinance requirements where permitted by
the Board of Supervisors.
      D.   Prior to seeding open space areas, a soil test must be conducted by
a soil testing laboratory and the soils amended to achieve pH and N.P.K. levels
as recommended for the proposed seeding. At time of dedication, all open land
areas must have at least 90 percent cover with appropriate grasses or other
species and be free of noxious weeds as defined by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
      E.   Open space reforestation plantings which do not survive, exhibit
poor growth habits, are diseased, are missing, or are damaged by deer within 5
years from the date of acceptance by the Township shall be replaced in kind by
the developer.
      F.   Financial security shall be posted with the Township in an amount
equal to the estimated cost of the trees and plantings, to be released 5 years
from Township acceptance of the installation, or installation of replacement
trees.
   6.   Protection of Existing Plant Material:
      A.   All major subdivisions and land developments shall be laid out in
such a manner so as to maximize preservation of healthy trees and shrubs on the
site. Any trees with a diameter of 10 inches or more that are removed must be
replaced pursuant to subsection .7 of this Section.
      B.   On a forested lot, tree removal shall be permitted in the following
areas only:
         (1)   On land to be occupied by a building or structure and within 40
feet of all sides of a building or structure.
         (2)   On land to be occupied by and within 15 feet of all sides of any
driveway, parking area, stormwater management facility, utility line, water
system or sewage disposal system.
         (3)   In any location where removal of a tree is required by Township
Ordinance.
      C.   No grading, construction activity, or storage of topsoil or
materials shall occur within a tree protection zone (TPZ) measured 15 feet from
the trunk of a tree to be retained, or the distance from the trunk to the
dripline, whichever is greater. No equipment may be driven over this area and
no building materials are to be stacked against the trees or within the area of
this buffer. Prior to construction, the TPZ shall be delineated by the
following methods:
         (1)   The TPZ that is delineated on the site prior to construction
shall conform to the approved development plans.
         (2)   All trees scheduled to remain shall be marked; where groups of
trees exist, only the trees on the edge need to be marked.
         (3)   A 48-inch high wooden snow fence mounted on steel posts, located
8 feet on center, or other delineation approved by the Township, shall be
placed along the boundary of the TPZ.
         (4)   When the tree protection fence has been installed, it shall be
inspected and approved by the Township prior to clearing and further
construction.
         (5)   Fencing along the tree protection zone shall be maintained until
all work/construction has been completed; any damaged protective fence shall be
replaced and repaired immediately.
         (6)   Trees being removed shall not be felled, pushed, or pulled into
a TPZ or into trees that are to be retained.
      D.   During the construction on any site, trees and shrubs to be
preserved shall be protected by snow fencing, safety fencing, or silt fencing,
to insure that there is no encroachment within the area of their dripline by
changing grade, trenching, stockpiling of building materials or topsoil, or the
compaction of the soil and roots by any motor vehicle unless the following
regulations are met:
         (1)   The grade of land within the entire area of dripline shall not
be raised more than 6 inches unless tree wells are constructed around each
trunk or group of trunks and aeration pipes are extended out to the edge of the
dripline.
         (2)   Tree wells are to be constructed of uncemented stone, or any
other suitable material. Such walls shall be a minimum of 3 feet in diameter or
1 foot in diameter for each inch in caliper measured 12 inches above natural
ground level, whichever is greater; and shall be a maximum of 3 feet deep.
         (3)   Retaining walls are to be constructed around each tree or group
of trees immediately after any grade is lowered within the area of the
dripline. This retaining wall is to be constructed of 8-inch by 8-inch pressure
treated landscape ties or any other suitable material. Retaining walls must be
designed and constructed to withstand overturning and frost heave.
      E.   Specimen trees as defined pursuant to §
509.2 of the Zoning Ordinance shall be protected with a chain link fence
installed 5 feet outside the dripline of the tree to be preserved.
      F.   If any plant material is to be moved, it must be done in accordance
with specifications set forth by the American Association of Nurserymen.
      G.   All diseased or dead trees shall be promptly removed from the site.
All trees to be preserved shall be pruned when necessary to remove dead limbs.
      H.   No tree is to support any scaffolding, signs, temporary utilities,
surveying spikes or any other device.
      I.   Those trees whose removal will damage other trees which are to
remain must be removed by hand. The resulting stumps must be carefully removed
to minimize damage to roots and trunks of other trees.
      J.   Trees Damaged During Construction.
         (1)   Tree trunks and exposed roots damaged during construction shall
be protected from further damage. Damaged branches shall be pruned according to
Tree Care Industry Association (formally National Arborist Association)
standards. All cuts shall be made sufficiently close to the trunk or parent
limb but without cutting into the branch collar of or leaving a protruding
stub. All necessary pruning cuts must be made to prevent bark from being torn
from the tree and to facilitate rapid healing.
         (2)   All trees which have been disturbed or have experienced damage
to their roots or branches shall be fertilized in early fall or mid-spring.
Fertilizer grade shall have approximately 3 parts nitrogen to 1 part phosphorus
and potassium (3-1-1 ratio). Fertilizer shall be broadcast over the soil
surface in an area twice the size of the tree protection zone at a rate of 1
pound of nitrogen per 1,000 square feet.
         (3)   Trees proposed to remain on a subdivision or land development
plan which die or are so severely damaged during construction to require
removal as determined by the Township shall be replaced pursuant to subsection
7. of this Section.
      K.   Stumps, branches and other wood debris shall not be buried on site.
Where trees are removed outside of an area to be excavated, it is preferred
that stumps be removed by grinding to a point 6 inches below existing grade.
   7.   Replacement Trees/Reforestation. Trees with a diameter of 10 inches or
more which are to be removed or destroyed during any stage of development,
grading and/or construction within a major subdivision or land development,
shall be replaced with a tree or trees of the type found in
Appendix “E” of this Ordinance. However, removal of trees on a site shall not
exceed the maximum permitted pursuant to Natural Resource Protection Standards
of §
509.2 of the Zoning Ordinance. Replacement trees shall meet the following size
limitations:
      A.   Trees with a diameter of 10 inches or more, but less than 18 inches
which are removed, shall each be replaced with a tree of like caliper or no
less than four trees measuring 2½ inches to 3 inches in diameter.
      B.   Trees with a diameter of 18 inches or more, but less than 30 inches
which are removed, shall each be replaced with no less than seven trees
measuring 2½ inches to 3 inches in diameter.
      C.   Trees with a diameter of 30 inches or more which are removed, shall
each be replaced with no less than 10 trees measuring 2½ inches to 3 inches in
diameter.
      D.   All replacement trees shall be measured at a height of 4 feet above
the finished grade level. Replacement trees shall be provided in addition to,
not in place of, required buffers, street trees, trees in parking lots, or
trees planted on single-family lots or common open space.
      E.   Where sufficient replacement trees of the required caliper size are
not available or smaller caliper trees would have a greater survivability rate
due to the planting environment, the Board of Supervisors may authorize smaller
caliper replacement trees provided that the total caliper inches to be planted
is comparable to the requirements set forth above.
      F.   Where development takes place on fully-wooded lots, replacement
trees or their equivalent may be planted as follows:
         (1)   The applicant shall enhance existing wooded areas through
planting of shade tolerant and deer resistant understory trees, shrubs and
ground cover.
         (2)   In order to mitigate the impact of stormwater runoff either on
site or upon adjacent properties, the applicant shall plant riparian buffers in
areas designated by the Township, provided that the Township secures the
necessary permission if the riparian buffer areas are on private property.
         (3)   The Township may accept designated off-site areas or other
riparian buffer areas in need of planting.
         (4)   The Township may accept a fee-in-lieu of the required
replacement tree plantings which shall be equivalent to the cost of planting
the required replacement trees.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 516)
§ 517 Stormwater Management.
   1.   All subdivision and land developments shall comply with the Springfield
Township Stormwater Management Ordinance, Ord. 152, adopted on July 28, 2009,
as amended.
   2.   All subdivisions and land development applications shall comply with
the Low Impact Development Practices as outlined in the Pennsylvania Stormwater
Best Management Practices Manual, December 2006, as amended (“Manual”), where
consistent with design requirements of this Ordinance. The Manual provides
guidance on the development of site controls through the use of best management
practices (BMPs). The most appropriate BMPs for stormwater management vary from
site to site; however, the basic concepts are as follows:
      A.   Prevent stormwater impacts, especially pollutants.
      B.   Mitigate pollutants that cannot be prevented.
      C.   Manage stormwater as a resource.
      D.   Sustain the hydrologic balance (quantity and quality).
      E.   Integrate stormwater into the initial site design process.
      F.   Preserve and utilize natural systems (soil, vegetation, etc.).
      G.   Manage stormwater as close to the source as possible.
      H.   Disconnect/decentralize/distribute.
      I.   Slow down stormwater by increasing the time of concentration.
      J.   Inspect and maintain.
   3.   The stormwater management system shall be designed to meet the
requirements of the Stormwater Management Ordinance and the Manual. Where the
Delaware River (North) Watershed, Tohickon Creek Watershed, or Saucon Creek
Watershed Act 167 (32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq., as amended, the “Stormwater
Management Act”) requirements are more restrictive, the Act 167 requirements
shall apply as determined by the Township Engineer.
   4.   The Township requires use of nonstructural BMPs (refer Chapter 5 of the
Manual) to the maximum extent possible because of their ability to prevent
stormwater generation and not just mitigate stormwater-related impacts. If
nonstructural BMPs cannot be used, the reasons why must be demonstrated to the
Township’s satisfaction. Stormwater generation can be reduced by designing the
subdivision or land development in ways other than through use of standard or
conventional development practices. Prevention and nonstructural BMPs are in
contrast with structural BMPs (refer Chapter 6 of the Manual) that provide
mitigation of stormwater impacts which cannot be prevented and/or avoided.
   5.   The following major “areas” of preventative nonstructural BMPs have
been identified in the Manual:
      A.   Protect Sensitive and Special Value Features.
      B.   Cluster and Concentrate.
      C.   Minimize Disturbance and Minimize Maintenance.
      D.   Reduce Impervious Cover.
      E.   Disconnect/Distribute/Decentralize.
      F.   Source Control.
   Specific nonstructural BMPs have been identified for each of these
generalized areas, to better define and improve implementation. One of the most
challenging technical issues considered in the Manual involves the selection of
BMPs that have a high degree of non-point source (NPS) reduction or removal
efficiency. In the ideal, a BMP should be selected that has a proven NPS
pollutant removal efficiency for all pollutants of importance, especially those
that are critical in a specific watershed.
   6.   Chapter 8 of the Manual provides a methodological approach to take
credit for applying these nonstructural BMPs, provided that the
“specifications” defined for each BMP in Chapter 5 of the Manual are properly
followed.
   7.   Stormwater management requirements, including peak rate and volume not
met with nonstructural best management practices, shall be controlled with
structural best management practices such as infiltration basins, infiltration
trenches, porous pavement, constructed wetlands, wet basins, retention basins,
and dry extended detention basins in accordance with Chapter 6 of the Manual.
Design, construction, and landscaping of structural Best Management Practices
shall be in accordance with requirements of Chapter 6 of the manual and subject
to approval by the Township.
   8.   The developer shall construct and/or install such drainage structures,
onsite and offsite as necessary to provide a fully functioning stormwater
collection and control system meeting the requirements of the Manual. The
developer’s design shall utilize to the maximum extent possible and consistent
with other requirements of this Ordinance, nonstructural BMPs.
   9.   On-lot drainage swales shall be designed to provide positive conveyance
of surface water from the individual lot. Each swale lot shall convey
stormwater from the lot to a storm sewer system, street, open space area, or
stormwater management easement without crossing or combining with stormwater
from more than one adjacent lot.
   10.   Drainage swales necessary to control surface drainage between lots
shall be centered about the common property line.
   11.   Whenever an ephemeral, intermittent, or perennial stream is located
within a development site, it shall remain open in its natural state and
location, and shall not be piped, impeded, or altered (except for road
crossings). It is the responsibility of the developer to restore existing
eroded stream/channel banks within the development site and obtain all permits
necessary from PADEP to do so. The developer must submit pictorial
documentation of existing stream/channel banks to determine whether existing
banks must be stabilized.
   12.   During review of the stormwater management plan, if the Township
determines that offsite improvements are necessary to satisfactorily manage
stormwater runoff from the proposed subdivision or land development, the
developer shall be responsible for design, construction and permitting of those
offsite improvements.
   13.   Existing points of concentrated drainage that discharge onto adjacent
property shall not be altered without written agreement of the affected
property owner(s) and Township, and shall be subject to any applicable
discharge criteria specified in the Stormwater Management Ordinance. The
agreement shall be recorded at the Bucks County Office of Recorder of Deeds and
assignable to future owners.
   14.   Areas of sheet flow drainage shall be maintained wherever possible. If
sheet flow is proposed to be concentrated and discharged onto adjacent
property, the developer must document that adequate downstream conveyance
facilities exist to safely transport the concentrated discharge, or otherwise
prove that no erosion, sedimentation, flooding, or other harm will result from
the concentrated discharge; and submit written approval from the affected
adjacent property owner(s).
   15.   Whenever the location of concentrated runoff from a site is changed
due to development, the developer must secure written approval from all
adjacent downstream property owners. The developer shall indemnify and/or hold
harmless the Township against any claim of damage from any downstream property
owners that may result from the proposed development.
   16.   All proposed streets shall be designed so as to discharge surface
water from their rights-of-way. Storm drainage improvements as deemed necessary
by the Township shall be required along all existing streets on which a
subdivision or land development abuts.
   17.   Setback to Boundaries. No piped storm sewer system outlet, detention
basin, or energy dissipation structure shall discharge closer than 20 feet from
the boundary of any drainage easement under the control of the developer or
which may be utilized by the developer, so as to allow for adequate space for
stormwater dissipation in vegetated land areas controlled by, or available to,
the developer and/or to allow adequate space for equipment access for future
maintenance.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 517; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 518 Excavation and Grading.
   All construction wherein excavation, placement of fill, and/or grading
activities are performed shall conform with the following general requirements:
      A.   No excavation or fill shall be made with a face steeper than 3
horizontal to 1 vertical, except under one or both of the following conditions:
         (1)   The material is sufficiently stable to sustain a steeper slope.
A written statement to that effect from a Professional Engineer licensed in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and experienced in erosion control shall be
submitted to the Township. The statement shall affirm that the site has been
inspected and the deviation from the slope restriction shall not result in
injury to persons or damage to property. A detail of the treatment of the slope
(proposed grade, seeding, erosion protection, maintenance plan, etc.), shall be
submitted with the application.
         (2)   A concrete, masonry, or other approved retaining wall is
designed by a Registered Professional Engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania constructed to support the face of the excavation or fill.
      B.   If the vertical drop of an excavation or fill slope is greater than
5 feet, then the maximum slope shall not exceed 4 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      C.   The top or bottom edges of slopes shall be a minimum of 5 feet from
property lines or right-of-way lines of streets in order to permit the normal
rounding of the edge without encroachment on abutting property.
      D.   Adequate provision shall be made to prevent surface water from
damaging the cut face of excavation and the sloping surfaces of fills.
      E.   No person, corporation, or other such entity shall block, impede the
flow of, alter, construct any structure, or deposit any material or thing or
perform any work that will affect the normal or flood flow in any stream or
watercourse and associated floodplain without having obtained prior approval
from the Township and/or Department of Environmental Protection, whichever is
applicable.
      F.   All lots, tracts, or parcels shall be graded to provide positive
drainage away from buildings and dispose of it without ponding, except where
ponding (stormwater management facilities, swales, etc.) is part of the
stormwater management plan for the site.
      G.   Areas of the site to remain undisturbed including septic and reserve
septic drainfield locations shall be protected from encroachment by
construction equipment/vehicles to maintain the existing infiltration
characteristics of the soil.
      H.   The minimum depth of topsoil to be replaced shall be 8 inches, or
the existing depth of topsoil encountered on the site, whichever is greater.
      I.   Topsoil shall not be removed from the development site. Topsoil
shall be stripped, stockpiled and redistributed on the site. Prior to plan
approval, the applicant/designee shall provide the Township with calculations
to determine the volume of topsoil anticipated to the stripped, stockpiled and
replaced on the site to verify that excess topsoil will not be generated as a
result of construction activity.
      J.   No grading equipment shall be permitted to be loaded and/or unloaded
on a paved public street and no grading equipment shall be permitted to travel
on or across a public street unless licensed for operation on public
thoroughfares.
      K.   Preliminary cut and fill calculations must be submitted with all
nonresidential developments, with residential developments where new streets
are proposed, and other developments as determined by the Township to evaluate
grading balance of the site. The site should be designed to avoid an unbalance
of cut and fill material.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 518)
§ 519 Erosion and Sedimentation Control.
   1.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be submitted with all
applications wherein excavation, placement of fill, and/or grading activities
are proposed. The plan shall include a construction staging narrative
indicating the sequence of earthmoving activities, and proposed erosion and
sedimentation control procedures. Measures used to control erosion and reduce
sedimentation during construction activities shall strictly conform to the
standards and specifications of the Bucks Conservation District (BCCD) and to
the approved sequence of earthmoving activities. Verification of approval of
the E&S plan must be received in writing from the BCCD prior to any site
development or construction activity.
   2.   Existing eroded stream/channel banks, roadside swales and areas of
shallow concentrated or sheet flow within a proposed subdivision/land
development site must be stabilized by the developer. The subdivision
application must include pictorial documentation of existing stream/channel
banks for Township review. Use of stone rip-rap is discouraged.
   3.   All erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be installed in
accordance with the approved plan. Where a stormwater management basin is
involved, the basin shall be constructed, functional and stabilized prior to
any additional site activity. An as-built plan of the facility prepared by a
licensed surveyor shall be submitted to the Township for review to verify
adequate stage/storage capacity prior to commencement of other site activity.
Plan must include a note requiring the same.
   4.   It shall be the responsibility of each person, corporation or other
entity performing grading and/or building activities to install and maintain
erosion and sedimentation controls until the site is stabilized. In the event
any mud and/or debris is transported from the site onto a public roadway or
adjoining property, the mud and/or debris shall be immediately removed as
deemed necessary by the Township at the owner’s expense. The roadway shall be
swept and/or washed when determined necessary by the Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 519)
§ 520 Water Supply, Distribution Systems and Fire Protection.
   1.   General. All individual, residential, geothermal, agricultural,
monitoring, commercial and community wells are regulated by the Bucks County
Department of Health “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and Their
Construction Specifications,” dated January 1, 2011, as amended.
   2.   Private Centralized and Public Water Supply and Distribution Systems.
      A.   All property which abuts a public water supply line and requires
water service must make connection to the public water system pursuant to
Ordinance No. 42, adopted on October 23, 1979.
      B.   Where a private centralized or public water supply and distribution
system is proposed consistent with requirements of the Zoning Ordinance, the
private centralized or public water supply and distribution system shall be
designed and constructed in accordance to specifications of the Bucks County
Water and Sewer Authority.
      C.   All private centralized water supply and distribution systems shall
be offered for dedication to the Township. In the event the Township refuses
dedication, ownership and operation shall be maintained by a homeowner’s
association in a manner acceptable to the Township.
      D.   The developer shall construct water mains in such a manner as to
make adequate service available to each lot, or dwelling unit within the
subdivision or land development and, if feasible in the opinion of the
Township, shall also include facilities capable of supplying service to
adjacent properties when it is desirable for planning purposes. Water mains
shall be constructed by the developer in such a manner as to make adequate
water service available to each lot, building or dwelling unit within the
subdivision. A minimum pressure of 35 pounds per square inch shall be provided
at each house or other building to be connected to the water supply main. The
water supply must comply with regulations and standards of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection, and when applicable, the Delaware River
Basin Commission.
      E.   The water supply system shall be designed with adequate capacity,
storage facility and appropriately spaced fire hydrants for firefighting
purposes pursuant to the latest edition of the “Rating Schedule for Municipal
Fire Protection” by Insurance Services Office.
      F.   A water resources impact study pursuant to § 408 shall be required
for each major subdivision of five or more lots and each land development which
is not proposed to be served by an existing public water supply and
distribution system.
      G.   Water quality requirements for a proposed centralized water system
shall conform to applicable standards of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection and Bucks County Health Department.
      H.   When connection is proposed to a water Authority, written
verification of willingness to serve and water system design approval must be
submitted to the Township from the servicing water authority.
   3.   Private Individual Water Supply and Distribution System.
      A.   For all subdivisions not served by public or community water supply
and distribution systems pursuant to subsection 1.B., water shall be furnished
by the owner on an individual lot basis. All individual lot wells must be
drilled within the boundaries of the lot to be served.
      B.   All wells shall meet minimum isolation distances as required by
Bucks County Department of Health “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells
and Their Construction Specifications,” Section 4.1 Well Location, dated
January 1, 2011, as amended.
      C.   All wells shall be provided with a watertight casing. Casing shall
be installed and grouted in accordance with Bucks County Department of Health
“Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and Their Construction
Specifications,” Section 4.2 Casing, Section 4.3 Grout Materials, and Section
4.4 Grout Placement, dated January 1, 2011, as amended.
      D.   Well drilling/construction must be inspected by Bucks County
Department of Health pursuant to “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and
Their Construction Specifications,” Section 5 Inspection, dated January 1,
2011, as amended.
      E.   In order to be certified for use, a well must have a production of
not less than 6 gallons per minute as established by bailer tests and certified
by the well driller. If less than 6 gallons per minute yield is established by
bailer tests, a pumping test to establish yield shall be required. The pumping
test shall be of not less than 4 hours duration conducted at a rate of at least
150 percent of the expected withdrawal from the well. The test shall be
conducted at a constant pumping rate throughout the 4-hour period. Such a well
may still be certified for use if it provides sufficient storage for the length
of time necessary to provide expected peak demand, provided that in no case
will a well yielding less than 1 gallon per minute be certified for use.
      F.   Following completion of construction and installation of the pumping
equipment, or alteration of a potable water supply well, the well shall be
pumped until the water is clear. The well and distribution system shall be
disinfected according to the American Water Works (AWWA) procedures. This
procedure shall apply to all interior plumbing in any dwelling that is newly
constructed or has extensive re-plumbing work.
      G.   Potable water well quality shall meet requirements of Bucks County
Department of Health “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and Their
Construction Specifications,” Section 9 Water Quality, dated January 1, 2011,
as amended.
      H.   No building permit shall be issued for any construction on each lot
of the subdivision until the owner of the lot provides to the Zoning Officer a
copy of the “Certificate of Use” issued by Bucks County Department of Health
pursuant to Section 10.1 of the “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and
Their Construction Specifications,” dated January 1, 2011, as amended.
   4.   Permanent Monitoring Wells.
      A.   The purpose of monitoring wells shall be to provide the Township
with a means to check the impact of development on the water supply of the
Township on an ongoing basis.
      B.   All major subdivision plans of 10 or more lots proposing a community
or public water supply and distribution system shall be required to drill a
monitoring well which shall be permanent.
      C.   An additional monitoring well shall be required for all subdivision
plans proposing 30 or more lots. Location of monitoring wells shall be subject
to approval by the Township.
      D.   The developer shall provide the Township a permanent easement to
allow access to the monitoring wells by the Township.
      E.   The monitoring wells shall be drilled with a minimum 6-inch diameter
casing at a depth not less than the elevation of the lowest well (bottom)
within the subdivision.
      F.   Monitoring wells shall contain locked caps designed in a manner
satisfactory to the Township. A minimum of two keys shall be provided to the
Township for the locking mechanism.
   5.   Well Abandonment. Where an existing well is proposed to be abandoned,
well closure must be in accordance with BCHD Well Abandonment Procedures
required pursuant to “Rules and Regulations Governing All Wells and Their
Construction Specifications,” Section 11 Well Abandonment.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 521)
§ 521 Sanitary Sewage Disposal.
   1.   The developer shall install the most effective type of sanitary
disposal consistent with the Township’s Official Plan for sewage facilities
prepared in accordance with the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537)
being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the Township Sewage Facilities Plan, and
Chapter 71 of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
Regulations, for the subdivision or development.
   2.   On-Lot Sewage Disposal Systems: On-lot sewage disposal facilities must
comply with the provisions of Chapters 71 and 73, Administration of Sewage
Facilities Program, Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., (Act of January 24, 1996), P.L. 1535, No. 537 as amended (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) The proposed facilities must be deemed satisfactory by the Bucks
County Department of Health and a permit for on-lot disposal must be issued. A
Bucks County Department of Health “Letter of Suitability” for onsite disposal
must be received by the Township prior to approval of approval of final plan.
      A.   The applicant shall provide the type of sanitary sewage disposal
facility consistent with existing physical, geographical and geological
conditions, and the Township Sewage Facilities Plan. All lots shall be provided
with an onsite sanitary sewage disposal system of the type and design which
shall, as a minimum requirement, meet the design standards of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection and/or the Bucks County Department of
Health which systems shall be approved by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection and/or the Bucks County Department of Health.
      B.   If the subdivision or land development contains an existing onsite
sewage disposal system, the developer shall submit acknowledgment from the
Bucks County Department of Health, a licensed Sewage Enforcement Officer, or
licensed Professional Engineer indicating that the system has been inspected
and appears to be functioning properly and is not malfunctioning.
      C.   Reserve Area. To ensure that a suitable location is available for a
new sewage disposal area if the original sewage disposal area should
malfunction, a lot submitted for subdivision or land development approval shall
include both a primary and reserve sewage disposal area location. Both
locations shall be determined by the Bucks County Health Department to meet PA
Department of Environmental Protection regulations for a septic system location
prior to approval of the final subdivision or land development plan. The
requirement for a reserve sewage disposal area shall not apply to the
following:
         (1)   The simple merger of two or more existing lots, or an adjustment
to lot lines of an existing lot.
         (2)   A vacant lot that includes a permanent deed restriction or
conservation easement prohibiting any construction of buildings on the lot.
         (3)   Lots within a subdivision or land development that will abut a
complete capped sewage system constructed by the developer, the design of which
has been approved by the Township.
         (4)   A spray irrigation system.
   The reserve septic system location shall be kept clear of buildings,
structures, and parking and shall be shown on any subsequent application for
new or expanded buildings or parking. The reserve septic location is not to be
planted in trees and the soil shall remain in place with minimal disturbance.
The Township may require that the location be recorded on the deed.
      D.   On-lot sewage disposal systems shall not be located within
floodplain, wetlands, or wetland and/or riparian buffer.
   3.   Central Sewage Service. A use shall not be considered to be served by
“central sewage service” unless:
      A.   All applicable requirements of the Zoning Ordinance, Township Sewage
Facilities Plan and State regulations are met.
      B.   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township that there
will be an appropriate management system in place to guarantee and properly
fund the long-term operation and maintenance of the system by a qualified
professional operator.
      C.   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township, based upon
review of the Township Engineer, that the system will include adequate
treatment capacity and conveyance capacity to serve the development.
   4.   Sanitary sewer systems shall be located and/or designed to prevent
flood damage and to eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system, or
discharges from the system into flood waters.
   5.   The developer shall be responsible for the completion of the
appropriate planning module for land development components as required by the
Department of Environmental Protection, including Alternatives Analysis and
Feasibility Studies.
   6.   All final plans shall contain a notice regarding sewage disposal
systems (refer sample in
Appendix “B”).
      A.   On-Lot Sewage Disposal. All subdivision and land development plans
shall contain a plan note specifying that approval of the plan does not
guarantee permit issuance for sewage disposal.
      B.   Public or Centralized Sewers. All subdivision and land development
plans shall contain a plan note specifying that connection to public sewer is
required.
   7.   Design standards and specifications for public and centralized sanitary
sewer systems shall conform to requirements of the Bucks County Water and Sewer
Authority.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 521)
§ 522 Utilities.
   1.   Easements for utilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   2.   To the fullest extent possible, easements for public utilities shall be
centered on or adjacent to rear or side lot lines.
   3.   Telephone, electricity, T.V., cable, and such other utilities shall be
installed underground and shall be provided within right-of-way easements to be
dedicated for such utilities, and in accordance with plans approved by the
Board of Supervisors and the applicable utility company. Underground
installation of the utility distribution and service lines shall be completed
prior to final street paving, curb and sidewalk installation.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 522)
§ 523 Monuments and Markers.
   1.   Any existing monument, iron pipe, pin, or marker determined and
identified to be existing found property corners based upon the recorded
parcel, or adjoining parcel, is to remain undisturbed.
   2.   Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be accurately placed by a
Registered Surveyor at the intersection of all lines forming angles and at
changes in directions of lines in the boundary (perimeter) of the property
subdivided. Monuments shall be pre-manufactured and not field constructed.
      A.   Monuments shall be a minimum 24 inches in length.
      B.   Monuments less than 24 inches in length may only be utilized when
obstructions are encountered and use is approved by the Township.
   3.   All streets shall be monumented on the ultimate right-of-way lines, at
the following locations:
      A.   At least two monuments at each intersection.
      B.   At changes in direction of street lines, excluding curb arcs at
intersection.
      C.   At each end of each curved street line, excluding curb arcs at
intersection.
      D.   Where the street line is a point common to a property corner.
      E.   At intermediate points, wherever topographical or conditions make it
impossible to sight between two otherwise required monuments.
      F.   At such other places along the lines of streets as may be determined
by the Township Engineer to be necessary so that any street may be readily
defined in the future.
   4.   All monuments shall be placed so that the scored point shall coincide
exactly with the point of intersection of the line being monumented.
   5.   Monuments shall be set with their top level at the finished grade of
the surrounding ground, except as follows:
      A.   Monuments which are placed within the lines of existing or proposed
sidewalks shall be so located that their tops will not be affected by lateral
movement of the sidewalks.
      B.   Where sidewalks are existing, a stone point, a 4-inch square chisel
cut in the sidewalk with a drill hole in the center, may be substituted for a
monument. Where bituminous paving is existing, a railroad spike may be
substituted for a monument or iron pin where required.
   6.   Permanent reference marker pins of ½ inch O.D. solid iron rod, at least
24 inches long shall be set at the following points:
      A.   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear.
      B.   At all angles in property lines of lots.
      C.   At all lot corners not monumented pursuant to subsection 3.
      D.   At all points where easements intersect property lines.
      E.   At all other changes in direction of easement boundaries not located
within future lawns.
   7.   All outboundary monuments shall be installed and certified as to their
accuracy and conformance to plan information by the responsible surveyor prior
to plan recordation. Accuracy of monuments shall be within 3/100 of a foot.
   8.   All property pins and monuments shall be installed and certified as to
their accuracy and conformance to plan information by the responsible surveyor
prior to issuance of a building permit for the subject lot. Accuracy of
property corner pins and monuments shall be within 3/100 of a foot. In the
event it is determined by the Township that installation of permanent markers
prior to construction start it is not practical due to future grading
operations, temporary wood stake corners shall be set by a licensed surveyor to
permit stakeout inspection of proposed construction activities relative to
required setbacks. Permanent property pins and monuments shall then be required
to be installed prior to issuance of a use and occupancy permit for the parcel.
   9.   All monuments along right-of-way being dedicated to the Township, and
pins delineating easements being granted to the Township, shall be installed
and certified as to their accuracy and conformance to plan information by the
responsible surveyor. Accuracy of right-of-way monuments and easement pins
shall be 3/100 of a foot. Installation and certification shall be provided
prior to execution and acceptance of public improvements.
   10.   Any pre-existing or new property markers/monuments of a property under
construction, or properties surrounding the subject property under
construction, which are disturbed by construction activity are required to be
reset and re-certified by a licensed surveyor. The property owner and/or
developer of the property under construction resulting in the disturbance shall
be held responsible for proper replacement and re-certification of disturbed
property markers/monuments.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 523)
§ 524 Parking Facilities.
   1.   Off-street parking facilities shall be designed in compliance with
regulations contained herein. Required parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the specific use regulations contained in
Chapter 154, Zoning.
   2.   Angled or perpendicular parking shall not be permitted along public
streets.
   3.   General Parking Lot Standards.
      A.   Parking shall not be permitted along driveways which serve as the
entrance(s) or exit(s) to parking areas.
      B.   (Reserved).
      C.   Where the edge of an existing parking area is located close to a
street, driveway, or other parking area and the property is proposed for
subdivision and/or land development, a minimum separation of 10 feet shall be
provided between these features where feasible.
      D.   Dead-ended parking areas shall be discouraged when the required
parking capacity can be accommodated in a layout that permits more convenient
vehicular movements. However, extraneous through-traffic flow should be
avoided.
         (1)   Up to 30 parking spaces may also be located in a dead-ended
parking area if there is no more desirable alternative feasible and sufficient
backup areas are provided for the end stalls.
         (2)   More than 30 parking spaces may be located in a dead-ended
parking area only if a turnaround area is provided at the closed end, suitable
for passenger car turning.
      E.   Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be in accordance
with the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code and Americans with Disabilities
Act, as applicable. Parking spaces shall be designated with pavement markings
and signage.
      F.   All signage for parking facilities shall be as specified within
subsection 5.
      G.   All parking lots shall be provided with adequate lighting to assure
safe maneuverability of vehicles and to promote safety for pedestrians.
Lighting shall be so arranged that no glare affects abutting residences or
streets. (Refer to §
527 of this Ordinance and §
502 of the Zoning Ordinance).
      H.   All nonresidential parking facilities, and all multi-family
residential parking facilities and access driveways shall be paved. Minimum
requirements for residential and institutional parking facilities will be 8
inches of 3A modified stone, 1½ inches of ID-2 binder, and 1 inch of ID-
2 wearing course or superpave equivalent. Commercial and industrial parking
facility design requirements shall be subject to approval by the Township
Engineer based upon expected traffic loads; paving cross section requirements
may be increased accordingly. Driveway entrances will be paved in accordance
with same requirements.
      I.   Outdoor garbage collection facilities must be screened from view by
landscaping and/or fencing, and be located to provide adequate truck access.
      J.   Parking facilities must be screened in such a manner that vehicle
headlights are not intrusive to adjacent residential properties. Grading to
recess the parking facility, raised berms, landscaping and fencing are
acceptable methods to screen the parking.
      K.   Adequate means for pedestrian access between buildings (on the site)
and to and through the parking facility must be provided.
      L.   Parking area design must accommodate access and circulation for fire
trucks and other emergency vehicles, and the largest delivery truck anticipated
for the proposed use.
   4.   Residential Parking Lots.
      A.   Parallel rows of parking spaces, which are not separated by a
driveway, shall be separated by a planting strip, a minimum of 10 feet wide.
      B.   A single row of parking spaces located parallel to and between two
driveways shall be separated from one of the driveways by a planting strip, a
minimum of 5 feet wide.
      C.   Parking lots shall be divided into sections of not more than 20 cars
each, with the sections separated by planting strips, a minimum of 10 feet
wide.
      D.   The parking area shall be landscaped in accordance with §
516.4 of this Ordinance.
   5.   Nonresidential Parking Lots.
      A.   Parking lots with a capacity of from 15 to 100 cars shall require a
raised and/or curbed planting strip, a minimum of 10 feet wide.
      B.   Parking lots for more than 100 cars shall be divided into sections
by planting strips, a minimum of 10 feet wide.
         (1)   These planting strips shall be located parallel to the rows of
parking, to serve the following purposes:
            (a)   To separate main access (entrance-exit) driveways from rows
of parking spaces.
            (b)   To separate other major driveways from rows of parking spaces
(service drives, general internal circulation).
            (c)   To separate large parking areas into smaller units at
intervals of not more than four rows of parking stalls with each unit capacity
not greater than 100 cars.
            (d)   Refer
Appendix “C” for an illustration of appropriate locations and use of these
planting strips.
         (2)   The ends of rows of parking shall be marked as islands by means
of painted lines or the use of different paving materials such as paving
blocks, bricks, or round stones.
            (a)   Each row of spaces shall contain marked end islands equal in
size to one parking space.
            (b)   Parking shall be prohibited on these islands.
            (c)   The first parking space abutting the end of each island shall
be reserved and marked for handicapped parking, at the end of the row closest
to the building unless more convenient locations are possible and reasonable.
Ramps shall be provided at convenient intervals for access between parking
surface and sidewalks.
         (3)   For parking areas with an ultimate capacity greater than 500
cars, the requirements of paragraph B.(1) above may be modified by the
Supervisors to provide separation into units at intervals of six rows of
parking stalls, with each unit capacity no greater than 150 cars.
         (4)   The applicant may request the Township to permit an alternative
design which achieves the purposes of these parking area requirements as well
or better than the requirements herein. The final decision to permit an
alternative design shall be made by the Board of Supervisors.
      C.   The parking area shall be landscaped in accordance with §
516.4 of this Ordinance.
   6.   Driveways/Access Aisles. The following requirements apply to all
driveways/access aisles within all sites proposed for land development, as well
as to other sites proposed for development.
      A.   A smooth transition shall be provided between the driveway section
required for access to a public street and the driveway(s) required for
internal site circulation.
      B.   The width of entrance and exit drives shall be:
         (1)   A minimum of 12 feet for one-way use only.
         (2)   A minimum of 24 feet for two-way use.
         (3)   A maximum of 35 feet at the street line and 54 feet at the curb
line.
      C.   Storefront driveways in shopping centers shall have a minimum paved
width of 32 feet, to allow one lane in each direction and fire lane along the
sidewalks.
      D.   Driveways along other nonresidential buildings and main circulation
drives shall have a minimum paved width of 26 feet, except where a fire lane is
proposed, the width shall be 32 feet.
   Wherever feasible, internal circulation driveways shall extend from access
drives in locations which permit and encourage entering traffic to turn and
enter the parking aisles without first traveling along a building-front
driveway. This feature is intended to reduce the volume of vehicular traffic
along building front driveway to make it safer for pedestrian traffic.
   7.   Parking Space and Driveway Dimensions.
      A.   Each parking space shall include a rectangular area that has a
minimum width of 9.5 feet and a minimum length of 19 feet. Parking aisle
driveway dimensions between parking spaces shall be in compliance with the
following standards:
 
Angle of Parking Aisle Width
                 One-Way Two-Way
90 degrees       20 feet 24 feet
60 degrees       18 feet 20 feet
45 degrees       15 feet 18 feet
 
      B.   Where appropriate, parallel parking may be provided utilizing a
stall width of 8 feet and a minimum length of 22 feet.
      C.   A minimum of 20 feet of open space shall be provided between the
outside wall of any multiple-family dwelling or nonresidential building and any
parking space to provide access for firefighting equipment, unless waived by
the Township.
      D.   Where vehicles may overhang, a planting strip or other landscaped
area provided in compliance with this Ordinance, the depth of the row of
parking spaces may be reduced up to 3 feet, provided the planting strip or
other landscaped area is increased an equal amount.
      E.   All paved parking stalls must be delineated with 4-inch wide line
striping along their entire length. When curb is not installed along perimeter
of parking areas or paving is not required, parking stall locations must be
delineated with tire stops, bollards, or by other means acceptable to the
Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 524; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 525 Alleys.
   1.   Alleys may be permitted upon approval of the Township in Use B-7,
Performance Subdivision, Use B-14 Townhouse Dwelling, Use B-15 Twin Dwelling,
and Use B-16, Village Dwelling developments as a means of providing direct off-
street parking and access for narrow lots.
   2.   Alleys are intended to provide access to the rear of residential lots
for services and on-lot parking.
   3.   Frontage on an alley shall not be construed to satisfy the requirements
of the Zoning Ordinance for frontage on a street.
   4.   No parking shall be provided for, or permitted within, the cartway of
the alley.
   5.   Street systems which contain alleys shall be designed to discourage
through traffic on the alleys.
   6.   Any portion of an alley located between two points of ingress and
egress shall provide rear access to no more than 50 dwelling units.
   7.   Alleys may only intersect local access streets.
   8.   Alley length shall not exceed a distance of 800 feet as measured
between two points of ingress and egress.
   9.   Alleys shall be centered on a rear or side lot line and shall be
designed with a 20 feet wide easement and a paved cartway width of 12 feet.
Except where specifically approved by the Township, all alleys shall be
designed for one-way traffic. Where two-way traffic is permitted by the
Township, a cartway width of 16 feet shall be provided.
   10.   Parking shall be limited to a distance not to exceed 30 feet from the
alley centerline.
   11.   Alley construction must be in accordance with street construction
standards of §
506.6.
   12.   Alleys not acceptable for dedication to the Township shall provide
permanent easement rights of access to all properties served by the alley and
adequate funds or financial guarantees to insure snow plowing, maintenance and
repair by property owners served by the alley.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 525)
§ 526 Recreational Facilities.
   1.   General Requirements.
      A.   For all residential subdivisions of 25 or more dwelling units,
recreational facilities shall be provided unless waived by the Board of
Supervisors.
      B.   Recreation facilities shall be constructed on open space within
detached clustered subdivisions and performance standard developments.
      C.   Recreation facilities shall be readily accessible to all development
residents; or in the case of recreation facilities dedicated to the Township,
shall be easily and safely accessible to the general public. At least one side
of the recreation area shall abut a street for a minimum distance of 50 feet
for access of emergency and maintenance vehicles, and parking facilities where
deemed necessary by the Township.
      D.   The configuration of recreation areas must be able to accommodate
recreation activities proposed by the development plans. Required minimum area
shall not include narrow or irregular pieces of land which are remnants from
plotting and/or street and parking areas.
      E.   Recreation areas shall not be traversed by utility easements unless
said utilities are placed underground and no part of them or their supportive
equipment protrudes above ground level.
      F.   Active recreation areas shall be located such that the use of
recreational facilities will not be a nuisance to the residents of nearby
dwelling units. Adequate buffering/fencing shall be constructed to separate
recreational facilities from private properties.
      G.   The developer shall be required to improve the recreation land so
that it is usable for the intended activity, including necessary facilities and
equipment. Proposed improvements, including facilities and equipment, shall be
acceptable to Springfield Township.
      H.   Springfield Township may, but shall not be required to, accept any
portion(s) of the recreational land/facilities provided. Recreational
facilities not dedicated to, or accepted by Springfield Township, shall be
owned and maintained by a Homeowner’s Association or other method acceptable to
the Township.
      I.   Proposed recreation areas and facilities may be reviewed by the
Springfield Township Park and Recreation Board pursuant to §
306 of this Ordinance, as deemed necessary by the Board of Supervisors.
      J.   Sites designated for recreation land shall not contain lands with
natural resources required to be protected in accordance with the Zoning
Ordinance, stormwater management facilities or lands designated for any other
purpose.
   2.   Minimum Recreation Facility Requirements. The following table lists
facilities required to be fully improved by this Section. Alternate facilities
(e.g., walking paths, exercise trails, bird watching area, gazebo, etc.) may be
installed in-lieu-of the following table when authorized by the Board of
Supervisors.
      A.
Total No. of Lots/ No. of Playfields No. of Tot Lots/ No. of Basketball or
Dwelling Units                       Playgrounds      Tennis Courts
Total No. of Lots/ No. of Playfields No. of Tot Lots/ No. of Basketball or
Dwelling Units                       Playgrounds      Tennis Courts
25 to 49           1                 1                0
50 to 99           2                 2                1
100 to 149         3                 3                1
150 to 199         4                 4                2
200 to 249         5                 5                2
250 to 299         6                 6                3
300 to 349         7                 7                3
350 to 400         8                 8                4
 
      B.   In addition, for over 400 lots/dwelling units, additional
recreational facilities including, but not limited to, a community building or
fully improved sports fields (e.g., dugouts, fencing, goals, lighting, etc.)
may be required as determined by the Township.
   3.   Tot Lot/Playground Requirements.
      A.   Use of tot lots/playground shall be limited to daylight hours only;
no lighting shall be installed.
      B.   Low maintenance play equipment and structures shall be included and
confined by a gated fence, a minimum of 3 feet high. The gate shall be self-
closing and self-latching.
      C.   Sitting areas, including benches, shall be provided for the
convenience of persons supervising the children.
      D.   Shade trees shall be provided for sitting and play areas; gazebo or
picnic- type shelters may be used in addition to shade trees.
      E.   Where a tot lot/playground is placed adjacent to a playfield,
practical measures, such a fencing and orientation of facilities, shall be used
to reduce hazards, especially from balls, frisbees, or other flying objects.
      F.   Tot lot/playground shall meet the safety and design guidelines of
the Handbook for Public Playground Safety, Publication No. 325, as amended from
the US Consumer Products Safety Commission.
      G.   Minimum dimensional standards shall be as follows:
         (1)   Minimum area–2,500 square feet within the fenced area.
Applicants shall provide a landscaped buffer area around the fenced area, a
minimum of 10 feet in depth.
         (2)   Minimum horizontal dimension–35 feet.
         (3)   Minimum setbacks:
            (a)   From lot lines–10 feet.
            (b)   From the ultimate right-of-way of local streets–25 feet.
            (c)   From the ultimate right-of-way of collector/arterial
streets–50 feet.
      H.   Locations. At convenient, centralized intervals, requiring not
longer than a 1,000 feet walk from any dwelling unit.
      I.   Where more than one tot lot/playground is required, the facilities
shall be designed to accommodate varying age groups.
   4.   Playfield Requirements.
      A.   Playfields shall be used only during daylight hours; no lighting
shall be installed.
      B.   Playfields are intended for informal, neighborhood use. Playfields
shall not be used for formalized programs such as Little League Baseball,
Soccer or Midget Football unless located, designed and intended for use by the
entire community.
      C.   Playfields shall consist of a lawn area, unobstructed by trees,
shrubs, benches and other playground equipment. Trees and shrubs shall be
installed along the perimeter of a playfield to define its limits, enhance its
appearance and filter noise generated by activities.
      D.   Playfields shall be gently sloped, not less than 1 percent nor more
than 2 percent grade and shall be well-drained so that they are suitable for
use in good weather.
      E.   Playfields must be fenced if dedicated to the Township.
      F.   Sitting areas must be provided along the perimeter of playfields
dedicated to the Township.
      G.   Minimum dimensional standards shall be as follows:
         (1)   Minimum area–25,000 square feet.
         (2)   Minimal horizontal dimension–150 feet.
         (3)   Minimum Setbacks to the Edge of a Playfield.
            (a)   From any dwelling unit–100 feet.
            (b)   From any property line–50 feet.
            (c)   From the ultimate right-of-way of local streets–50 feet.
            (d)   From the ultimate right-of-way of collector/arterial
streets–100 feet.
      H.   Locations at convenient, centralized intervals.
   5.   Basketball and Tennis Court Requirements.
      A.   Courts shall be constructed in accordance with specifications
approved by the Township Engineer, and shall be oriented in a north-south
direction.
      B.   Minimum dimensional standards shall be as follows:
         (1)   Court areas shall be of standard size.
         (2)   Minimum Setbacks to the Edge of Paving.
            (a)   From any dwelling unit–125 feet.
            (b)   From any property line–50 feet.
            (c)   From the ultimate right-of-way of local streets–50 feet.
            (d)   From the ultimate right-of-way of collector/arterial
streets–100 feet.
      C.   Tennis courts shall be fenced around the entire perimeter with
minimum 10 feet high fencing.
      D.   Basketball courts shall be fenced with a minimum 6 feet high fencing
when the edge of pavement is less than 30 feet from an area with a downward
slope exceeding 8 percent.
      E.   Lighting may be provided for nighttime use of courts, so arranged
that no glare affects abutting residences or streets, on a demand-activated
basis, until no later than 10 p.m.
      F.   Locations at convenient, centralized intervals.
   6.   Consolidation of Facilities. Applicants are required to provide the
numbers and types of facilities as required in this Section, spaced for
convenient access by the residents. However, applicants are encouraged to
consolidate several facilities in fewer locations to better serve the
residents’ needs in the following possible ways:
      A.   By locating all required tennis or basketball courts in one area,
thereby restricting noise and light to one area, and precluding the need to
search the neighborhood for a free court.
      B.   By combining two 25,000 square feet playfields into one 50,000
square feet area to permit larger fields for softball, football, soccer, or
other fields sports, while maintaining the neighborhood use character.
      C.   By creating one or more park-like facilities rather than simply
several sets of scattered facilities.
      D.   By locating some tot lots in combined areas while retaining others
on individual sites to guarantee short walking distances to tot lots.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 526)
§ 527 Lighting.
   1.   Lighting shall be provided along public streets, within parking
facilities and recreational facilities as required by the Township Board of
Supervisors. Glare shall be controlled in accordance with Zoning Ordinance
nuisance standards. (Refer to §
502 of the Zoning Ordinance).
   2.   Lighting plan shall be prepared in accordance with §
403.9.
   3.   At a minimum, street lighting shall be installed at each street
intersection, pedestrian crossing, and curves in proposed streets as deemed
necessary by the Township.
   4.   Design of light standards shall be approved by the Township prior to
installation. Provision shall be made by the owner/developer for energizing
street lighting prior to the occupancy of the first dwelling on the street. The
owner/developer shall be responsible for all utility costs involved in lighting
the streets until such time that the streets are accepted by the Township.
   5.   Developer shall petition the Township to provide for inclusion of all
lots within the subdivision in a Township streetlight district for the purpose
of assessing property owners’ maintenance and energy costs. Petition shall be
in a form approved by the Township Solicitor.
   6.   Intensity of illumination for parking facilities and recreational
facilities shall be determined on a case by case basis pending actual needs to
accommodate the facility. All lighting fixtures shall be full cut-off.
   7.   After installation, Township may require shields to be installed on
fixtures to reduce glare on adjoining properties or public streets.
   8.   When street lighting is to be dedicated to the Township, the applicant
shall be responsible for all costs involved in the lighting of streets and
street intersections until the street is accepted for dedication.
(Ord. 171, passed 6-24-2014)
   9.   Streetlights not dedicated to the Township will remain the
responsibility of the developer or appropriate private entity to which the
lights are turned over. Said private entity shall then assume all cost and
responsibilities for the lighting in perpetuity.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 527; Ord. 171, passed 6-24-2014, Art. IV)
§ 528 Easements.
   1.   Easements for storm sewer, sanitary sewer, utilities and drainage shall
be a minimum 20 feet wide.
   2.   Easements for site access and driveways shall be a minimum 25 feet
wide.
   3.   To the fullest extent possible, easements shall be adjacent to or
centered on rear and side lot lines.
   4.   Nothing shall be permitted to be constructed, placed, planted, set or
put within the area of any easement except the facilities for which the
easement was established.
   5.   Driveways shall be centered within access easements unless topographic
conditions do not permit same.
   6.   Easements must be described by metes and bounds on the record plan.
Legal descriptions for all easements to be dedicated to the Township must be
signed and sealed by the responsible licensed surveyor and submitted to the
Township for use in easement document preparation.
   7.   No easement or right-of-way for any purpose whatsoever, including
underground and overhead utilities, shall be granted by a developer after
subdivision or land development plan recordation unless the proposed easement
or right-of-way location/plan and documents are reviewed and approved by the
Township.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 528)
Article 6
Mandatory Dedication of Recreation Land
§ 601 Application.
   All residential subdivision or land development plans of five or more
dwelling units shall provide for suitable and adequate recreation land and/or
fees as set forth in this Article in order to fulfill the following purposes:
      A.   Ensure adequate recreational areas and facilities to serve the
future residents of the Township, and maintain compliance with recreation
standards as recommended by the Springfield Township Park and Recreation Plan
as adopted by the Township Board of Supervisors.
      B.   Minimize overuse of, and excessive demand for, existing recreational
areas and facilities by future residents.
      C.   Allow for orderly acquisition and development of recreational areas
to serve new residents.
      D.   Ensure that dedicated recreation land is suitable for the intended
use.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 2)
§ 602 Recreation Land Dedication Requirements.
   1.   All residential subdivision or land development plan submissions of
five or more dwelling units shall be required to provide for public dedication
of land suitable for park and/or recreation use in accordance with the
provisions of this Article.
   2.   A minimum of 0.065 acres or 2,833 square feet of suitable recreation
land shall be provided per dwelling unit in excess of four units unless the
applicant agrees to a fee in-lieu-of as outlined in §
605. This requirement is based on the following: a goal of providing 26 acres
of recreation land per 1,000 population in accordance with the standards of the
National Park and Recreation Association as reflected by the Township Park and
Recreation Plan; and an average household size of two and one-half persons per
household as determined by the U.S. Census of 2010.
   3.   This recreation and requirement shall in no way diminish the
requirement for open space where an open space requirement is set by §
510 of the Zoning Ordinance, except as is set forth in §
510.2.C(1) of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 2)
§ 603 Criteria for Determining the Location and Suitability of Recreation
Areas.
   1.   Site(s) must be easily and safely accessible, have good ingress and
egress and have access to a public road.
   2.   Site(s) must have suitable topography for the development as a
particular type of recreation area.
   3.   Size and shape of the site(s) must be suitable for the development as a
recreation area.
   4.   Site(s) must meet the minimum size with respect to usable acreage as
recommended by the Springfield Township Park and Recreation Plan.
   5.   Sites designated for recreation land shall not contain lands with
natural resources restrictions, as defined by §
509 of the Zoning Ordinance, stormwater detention facilities, or lands
designated for any other purpose.
   6.   Recreational activities and/or facilities for which the area is
intended must be specified on the development plans.
   7.   Configuration of the recreation area must be able to accommodate
recreation activities proposed by the development plans. The required area
shall not include narrow or irregular pieces which are remnants from lotting
and/or street and parking areas.
   8.   Onsite improvements shall be commensurate with the adjacent onsite
development improvements, including, but not limited to, grading, curbing, and
utilities.
   9.   Open space which is required to be set aside as part of a performance
subdivision, cluster subdivision or other use which requires open space shall
be provided in addition to the recreation land required by this Article. Where
both open space and recreational land are required, the mandatory dedication of
recreation land shall be met in addition to the requirements for open space.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 2)
§ 604 Ownership/Dedication to Township of Recreation Land.
   1.   The Springfield Township Planning Commission will provide
recommendations on any proposed recreation land dedication and any proposed
assessment of recreation fees in-lieu-of land dedication.
   2.   If the Board of Supervisors determines that recreation land dedication
would be in the public interest, such recreation land shall be owned and
maintained by an entity that the Board of Supervisors determines is acceptable
to ensure proper long term oversight and maintenance of the land. This may be
any of, but not limited to, the following, providing such entity agrees to
accept such land for permanent recreation purposes:
      A.   Retention by the owner of the development if such dwelling units are
to be rented, subject to restrictions acceptable to the Township which shall
ensure the perpetual dedication of the land for recreational use.
      B.   Dedication to a Homeowner’s or Condominium Association, with such
agreement subject to approval of the Board of Supervisors, after review by the
Township Solicitor.
      C.   Dedication to an established State, county or regional organization
acceptable to the Board of Supervisors.
      D.   Dedication to the Township.
   3.   If the Board of Supervisors deems it to be in the public interest to
accept dedicated land for recreational purposes, such acceptance shall be by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors and acceptance of a deed of dedication
from the developer.
   Recreation land shall include deed restrictions to permanently restrict its
use for recreation and to prohibit the construction of buildings on the land,
except buildings for noncommercial recreation or to support maintenance of the
land.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 2)
§ 605 Fee in Lieu of Dedication.
   Where upon agreement with the applicant or developer, it is determined that
the dedication of all or any portion of the land area required for recreational
purposes is not feasible under the criteria set forth in this Article, the
Township shall require the applicant or developer to pay a fee in-lieu-of
dedication of any such land or to construct recreational facilities in-lieu-of
recreation land dedication to the Township as follows:
      A.   The calculation of the fee in lieu of dedication shall be set forth
in a resolution and shall bear a reasonable relationship to the use of the park
and recreation facilities by future residents.
      B.   Limitations on Use of Fees.
         (1)   Any recreation fees collected under this Section shall be placed
within an interest-bearing “Recreation Fee Account” which shall function as a
capital reserve fund and shall be accounted for separately from other Township
funds.
         (2)   All fees and interest within the recreation fee account shall
only be used for acquisition of recreation land, development of and capital
improvement to public recreation facilities, landscaping of recreation land,
engineering, legal, planning, architecture, landscape architecture, and the
payment of debt directly resulting from such expenditures. Such fees
specifically shall not be used for maintenance, routine repairs, operating
expenses or recreational programs.
         (3)   Fees required under this Section shall be paid prior to the
recording of the applicable final plan.
         (4)   If such fees are paid in installments or prior to the issuance
of each building permit, then for the purpose of determining limits for the
time within such funds are required to be expended under State Law, such time
limit shall begin when the total fees related to the final approval are paid in
full, and not from the date of payment of any portion of such fees. Upon
request, the Township shall refund such fee, plus interest accumulated thereon
from the date of payment, if the Township has failed to utilize the fee paid
for the purposes set forth in this Section within 3 years.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 2)
Article 7
Required Improvements and General Standards
§ 701 Intent.
   1.   The required land improvements shall be designed, furnished, and
installed by the developer in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations, the “Improvements Construction Standards” of the Township as
adopted by this Ordinance as
Appendix “A,” which shall be considered a part hereof, and other codes of the
Township. They shall be installed before the final plan is approved, or in lieu
thereof, financial security shall be posted and agreements to install
improvements shall be approved concurrent with the approval of final plans.
   2.   The developer shall dedicate all land required for rights-of-way and
easements within the subdivision and land development, and furnish and install
all improvements to provide a complete and coordinated system of streets and
utilities for the neighborhood, in accordance with the Township Comprehensive
Plan, the Township Official Map, the Township Zoning Ordinance, this Ordinance
and neighboring approved developments.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 601; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 702 Required Improvements.
   All improvements shall be dedicated without cost to the Township as required
by this Ordinance and/or as stipulated in the Improvements Agreement and in a
manner approved by the Township consistent with sound construction methods.
This includes:
      A.   Grading:
         (1)   Grading of roadways and street rights-of-way and grading of
slopes adjacent to roadways and street rights-of-way.
         (2)   Grading of all drainage swales on public or private property and
grading of individual lots, to establish positive drainage away from buildings
and eliminate low spots.
         (3)   Implementation and maintenance of soil erosion control and
sedimentation control facilities.
         (4)   Replacement of topsoil and vegetative restoration in disturbed
areas not stabilized with building, paving or other non-vegetative ground
cover.
         (5)   Removal of temporary soil erosion and sedimentation control
facilities when they are no longer required.
      B.   Street or road subbase, base and paving.
      C.   Curbs and gutters.
      D.   Sidewalks, crosswalks, pathways and bike paths.
      E.   Underground facilities for electric, telephone and all available
television cable lines.
      F.   Storm sewers and drainage facilities.
      G.   Public sanitary sewer system.
      H.   Public or centralized water supply and distribution system
including, but not limited to, wells, pumping equipment, water laterals,
submains, storage tanks and equipment systems (if required).
      I.   Street name signs at all street intersections and official traffic
control signs and markings.
      J.   Permanent monuments and lot pins.
      K.   Fire hydrants.
      L.   Street trees, landscaping.
      M.   Open space improvements and/or recreational facilities, buffer or
screen plantings.
      N.   Streetlights.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 602; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 703 Construction of Facilities.
   1.   The developer shall construct and install, at no expense to the
Township, the improvements specified in this Ordinance. Construction and
installation of such facilities and utilities shall be subject to inspection by
appropriate Township, public agency or public utility officials during the
progress of the work and shall be in conformance with the improvements
construction standards contained in
Appendix “A.”
   2.   During the construction and installation of all facilities and
utilities required by this Ordinance, the developer shall ensure that access to
the job site from a public road shall be kept clear and free of all
obstructions and otherwise in a passable condition to all areas of the job site
for emergency, fire and police vehicles. In the event of a dispute, passable
access for the foregoing purposes shall be determined by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 603; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 704 General Standards.
   The following principles of subdivision and land development, general
requirements and the minimum standards of design, shall be observed by the
developer in all instances.
      A.   It is the developer’s responsibility to comply with all applicable
plans, ordinances, statutes, regulations, etc., of Springfield Township, Bucks
County, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and United States of America.
      B.   Proposed subdivisions and land development shall be coordinated with
existing nearby development so that the area as a whole may develop
harmoniously. Provision shall be made to assure that the street patterns
included in a proposed subdivision shall complement existing or proposed
streets shown on the current official Township Street and Road Map, and on
nearby approved developments.
      C.   Standards Incorporated in this Ordinance. In those cases where
precise design standards are not specified in this Ordinance, or other
ordinance adopted by Springfield Township, design standards of the following
organizations shall govern where applicable:
         (1)   Roads and Streets. Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, Institute
of Transportation Engineers, Transportation Research Board, U.S. Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway Administration.
         (2)   Sanitary Sewer. Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection, Bucks County Department of Health, and Servicing Municipal
Authority.
         (3)   Water. Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection,
Bucks County Department of Health, Delaware River Basin Commission, and
Servicing Municipal Authority.
         (4)   Soil and Erosion Control. Bucks County Conservation District and
Department of Environmental Protection, U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural
Resource Conservation Service.
         (5)   General Engineering. American Society of Civil Engineers, Army
Corps of Engineers, Federal Emergency Management Association, Springfield
Township Engineer.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 604; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 705 Completion of Improvements.
   No plat shall be finally approved unless the streets shown on such plat have
been improved as required by this Ordinance, and any walkways, curbs, gutters,
street lights, fire hydrants, trees, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers
and other improvements as may be required by this Ordinance have been installed
in accordance with this Ordinance.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 605; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 706 Guarantees to Complete Improvements and Financial Security.
   1.   In lieu of the completion of any improvements required as a condition
for the final approval of a plat, including improvements or fees required
pursuant to § 509(i) of the Municipalities Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq., this Ordinance shall provide for the deposit with the municipality of
financial security in an amount sufficient to cover the costs of such
improvements or common amenities including, but not limited to, roads,
stormwater detention and/or retention basins and other related drainage
facilities, recreational facilities, open space improvements, or buffer or
screen plantings which may be required. Financial security is not required for
an improvement in which financial security is required by, and provided to,
PennDOT in connection with the issuance of a highway occupancy permit. The
amount of financial security shall include costs for inspection of installation
of improvements anticipated by the Township during the course of the project.
Inspection costs shall include improvements required onsite and offsite, and on
Township and State roads.
   2.   When requested by the developer, the governing body shall furnish the
developer with a signed copy of a resolution or letter of contingent approval
indicating approval of the final plat contingent upon the developer obtaining
satisfactory financial security. The final or record plan shall not be signed
or recorded until the financial security agreement is executed, and financial
security is posted pursuant to these agreements. The resolution or letter of
contingent approval shall expire and be deemed to be revoked if the financial
security agreement is not executed within 90 days unless a written extension is
granted by the governing body.
   3.   Without limitation as to the types of financial security which the
Township may approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
Federal or Commonwealth chartered lending institution irrevocable letters of
credit and restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending institutions shall be
deemed acceptable financial security for the purposes of this Section. Such
financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or Federal or
Commonwealth chartered lending institution chosen by the party posting the
financial security, provided that said bonding company or lending institution
is authorized to conduct such business within the Commonwealth. Such security
shall provide for, and secure to the public, the completion of any improvements
on or before the date fixed in the formal action of approval or accompanying
agreement for completion of such improvements.
   4.   Amount of Financial Security. The amount of financial security shall be
equal to 110 percent of the estimated cost of the required improvements for
which financial security is to be posted. The cost of the required improvements
shall be estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for the
completion of said improvements. Annually, the municipality may adjust the
amount of the financial security by comparing the actual cost of the
improvements which have been completed and the estimated cost for the
completion of the remaining improvements as of the expiration of the 90th day
after either the original date scheduled for completion or rescheduled date of
completion. Subsequent to such said adjustment, the municipality may require
the developer to post additional security in order to assure that the financial
security equals 110 percent.
   5.   Basis for Establishing Amount of Security.
      A.   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of completion of the required improvements, submitted by
an applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as
such in this Commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a fair and
reasonable estimate of such cost. The municipality, upon the recommendation of
the municipal engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate for good cause
shown. If the applicant or developer and the municipality are unable to agree
upon an estimate, then the estimate shall be recalculated and re-certified by
another professional engineer licensed as such in this Commonwealth and chosen
mutually by the municipality and the applicant or developer. The estimate
certified by the third engineer shall be presumed fair and reasonable and shall
be the final estimate. In the event that a third engineer is so chosen, fees
for the services of said engineer shall be paid equally by the municipality and
the applicant or developer.
      B.   If the party posting the financial security requires more than 1
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional 10 percent for each 1-year period beyond the first anniversary date
from posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110 percent of
the cost of completing the required improvements as reestablished on or about
the expiration of the preceding 1-year period by using the above bidding
procedure or as established by the Township Engineer. In the case where
development is projected over a period of years, the Supervisors (or the
planning agency) may authorize submission of final plans by section or stages
of development, subject to such requirements or guaranties as to improvements
in future sections or stages of development as it finds essential for the
protection of any finally approved section of the subdivision or land
development.
   6.   Dispute over Amount of Financial Security. Whenever a dispute may arise
between an applicant or developer and the Township in that neither party can
reach an accord or the amount of financial security to be posted, the
procedures set forth at § 509(g) within the Municipalities Planning Code being
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. of the Municipalities Planning Code shall be employed.
   7.   Contracts. As a condition of final plan approval for all subdivisions
or land developments, the applicant or developer shall enter into a written
agreement with the Township in a manner and form approved by the Township
Solicitor, where they shall agree to:
      A.   Construct or cause to be constructed, at their own expense, all
streets, curbs, sidewalks, fire hydrants, street lights, drainage facilities,
street signs, monuments, capped sewers, parks and other improvements shown on
said final plan when required to do so by the Board of Supervisors in
accordance with the final plans, as finally approved, and in strict accordance
with the standards and specifications of the Township.
      B.   Maintain, at their own cost, said streets, curbs, sidewalks,
drainage facilities, street signs, parks, monuments, fire hydrants, street
lighting, capped sewers and other improvements, until the same are accepted or
condemned by the Township for public use, and for a period of 18 months
thereafter, to repair and reconstruct the same or any part of one of them when
such repair or reconstruction shall be specified by the Board of Supervisors as
necessary by reason of faulty construction, workmanship or materials and at or
before acceptance of such improvements by the Township.
      C.   Install or cause to be installed, at their own expense and without
any cost to the Township for any part of such installation, street lighting
facilities on all streets within and abutting the subdivision or land
development if proposed to be dedicated to the Township, as required by this
Section.
      D.   Obtain the easements and releases required when any street, drainage
facility or other improvement wherein a subdivision abuts or traverses lands of
persons other than the person holding legal title to the lands of the
subdivision, at his own cost, and obtain from the owner of lands so abutted or
traversed full releases from all damages which may change in grade,
construction or otherwise of the street, drainage facility or other
improvement, and such releases shall inure to the benefit not only of the owner
of the subdivision, but to the Township as well.
      E.   Promptly reimburse to the Township reasonable attorneys’ and
engineers’ fees in accordance with this Ordinance.
      F.   Construct or cause to be constructed, at their expense, road
improvements along the frontage of the tract in accordance with this Ordinance.
      G.   The development agreement shall provide requirements for insurance
to protect the Township and its employees and officials as well as penalties
for default of the agreement.
      H.   Additional conditions as may be determined to be necessary by the
Township Solicitor.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 606; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 707 Completion of Improvements.
   1.   A Partial Completion and Release of Financial Security.
      A.   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the Township Supervisors to
release or authorize the release, from time to time, of such portions of the
financial security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors
performing the work.
      B.   The Supervisors shall, prior to final release at the time of
completion and certification by its engineer, require retention of 10 percent
of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements for purposes of securing
the maintenance bond on said improvements.
   2.   Completion of Improvements and Release from Financial Security.
      A.   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall notify the Township, in writing,
by certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid
improvements and shall send a copy thereof to the Township Engineer.
      B.   The Township Supervisors shall, within 10 days after receipt of such
notice, direct and authorize the Township Engineer to inspect all of the
aforesaid improvements. The Township Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report,
in writing, with the Supervisors and shall promptly mail a copy of the same to
the developer by certified or registered mail. The report shall be made and
mailed within 30 days after receipt by the Township Engineer of the aforesaid
authorization from the Supervisors. The report shall be detailed and shall
indicate approval or rejection of said improvements, either in whole or in
part, and if said improvements or any portion thereof shall not be approved or
shall be rejected by the Township Engineer, said report shall contain a
statement of reasons for such non-approval or rejection.
      C.   The Township Supervisors shall notify the developer, within 15 days
of receipt of the Township Engineer’s report, in writing, by certified or
registered mail, of the action of said Township Supervisors within relation
thereto.
      D.   If the Township Supervisors or Township Engineer fail to comply with
the time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be
deemed to have been approved and the developer shall be released from all
liability, pursuant to the performance guaranty bond or other security
agreement.
      E.   If any portion of said improvements shall not be approved, or shall
be rejected by the Township Supervisors, the developer shall proceed to
complete the same and, upon completion, the same procedure or notification, as
outlined herein, shall be followed.
      F.   Upon satisfactory completion of all the necessary and appropriate
improvements as approved by the Township Engineer and receipt by the
Supervisors of the appropriate letter of certification of completion of said
improvements, the Supervisors shall release or authorize to be released the
balance of the financial security, minus the 10 percent as specified above. The
balance of financial security shall not be released until such time as the
developer establishes additional financial security to ensure the design,
structural integrity, and functioning of the specified improvements as
specified in §
708 herein.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 607; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 708 Maintenance Guaranties and Financial Security.
   1.   Where the Supervisors accept dedication of all or some of the required
improvements following completion, the Supervisors shall require the posting of
financial security as a maintenance guaranty to secure the design, structural
integrity of said improvements, as well as the functioning of said
improvements, in accordance with the design and specifications as depicted on
the final plan for a term not to exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance
of dedication. Said financial security shall be of the same type as otherwise
required in this Section with regard to installation of such improvements, and
the amount of the financial security shall not exceed 15 percent of the actual
cost of installation of said improvements.
   2.   To secure release from the maintenance guaranty and financial security,
the developer shall notify the Township Supervisors by certified or registered
mail 90 days or as otherwise specified in the guaranty prior to the expiration
date of said maintenance guaranty and request an inspection and written report
by the Township Engineer as to the structural integrity and functioning of the
specified improvements.
   3.   Upon receipt of said report and approval of the Engineer of the
structural integrity and functioning of said improvements, the Township
Supervisors shall release or authorize release of the maintenance guaranty
financial security.
   4.   If the specified improvements are not found acceptable to the Township
Engineer, the developer shall correct the same to the satisfaction of the
Township Engineer and Supervisors before the maintenance guaranty financial
security is released.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 608; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 709 Remedies to Effect Completion of Improvements.
   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this Section or in accord with the approved final
plan, the Supervisors are hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate
bond or other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If proceeds
of such bond or other security are insufficient to pay the cost of installing
or making repairs or corrections to all the improvements covered by said
security, the repairs or corrections to all the improvements covered by said
security, the Supervisors may, at their option, install part of such
improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land development and may
institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the monies necessary
to complete the remainder of improvements. All of the proceeds, whether
resulting from the security or from any legal or equitable action brought
against the developer, or both, shall be used solely for the installation of
the improvements covered by such security and not for any other purpose.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 609; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
Article 8
Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park
§ 801 Definitions.
   In addition to the applicable definitions contained in Article 2 of this
ordinance, the following terms are used explicitly in the provisions of this
article, and are defined as follows:
   (1)   Anchoring - as per applicable requirements of the Uniform Construction
Code.
   (2)   (Reserved).
   (3)   Hitch - a device that is part of the frame or attaches to the frame of
a mobile home and connects it to a power source for the purpose of transporting
the unit.
   (4)   Manufactured/mobile home foundation - frost-free piers, consistent
with current building code requirements, on which a mobile home shall be placed
and secured.
   (5)   Manufactured/mobile home park common open space - a parcel or parcels
of land within a mobile home park designated and intended for the use of
residents of the mobile home park, not including streets, off-street parking
areas, private yard space and areas set aside for public facilities. Common
open space shall be substantially free of structures but may contain such
improvements as are in the development plan as finally approved and as are
appropriate for recreational use by the residents.
   (6)   Skirt - a panel specifically designed for the purpose of screening the
underside of a mobile home by forming an extension of the vertical exterior
walls of the mobile home and covering the entire distance between the bottom of
the exterior walls and the ground elevation below.
   (7)   UCC - Uniform Construction Code.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 802 Permits and Applications.
   (1)   Permits Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to create,
construct, alter, extend or operate a mobile home park within the Township
unless and until he/she obtains:
      (a)   A valid permit issued by the Bucks County Health Department, in the
name of the owner, for the specified construction, alteration or extension
proposed.
      (b)   Plan approval as required by Article 3 of this ordinance.
      (c)   A building permit issued by the Township for the placement of any
mobile home on a mobile home lot (once approval to operate a mobile home park
is granted), including the relocation of an existing mobile home from one lot
to another within a mobile home park.
   (2)   Application.
      (a)   Submission and Review Procedure. An application for development of
a tract of land for mobile home park purposes shall be made and approved, or
approved as modified, before any permit for such use shall be issued. The
requirements of Article 3 of this ordinance shall govern the submission,
processing, and review of all applications for mobile home park development.
      (b)   Content of Application.
         1)   The requirements of Article 4 of this ordinance shall govern the
content of all applications for mobile home park development.
         2)   In addition to the requirements contained in Article 4,
applications shall be made in writing by the owner of the mobile home park,
signed by the applicant and shall contain or be accompanied by the following:
            (a)   The name and address of the owner;
            (b)   A complete plan of the park showing the placement, location,
and number of mobile home lots, common open space (including areas for
recreation), and other features deemed necessary by the township or the
township engineer.
§ 803 Registration.
   (1)   Department of Health permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate any mobile home park within the township unless he or she holds a
currently valid certificate of registration issued by the Bucks County
Department of Health in the name of such person for the specific mobile home
park. If this certificate is not regulated, a letter from the Bucks Department
of Health so stating shall exempt compliance with this section.
   (2)   Transfer of ownership. Every person holding a permit shall file notice
in writing to the Bucks County Health Department and the Springfield Township
Zoning Officer within ten days after having sold, transferred, given away, or
otherwise disposed of any interest in or control of any mobile home park. If
the certificate of registration is transferred by the Bucks County Health
Department, proof of such transfer shall be furnished to the Springfield
Township Zoning Officer forthwith.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 804 Park Layout and Construction Requirements.
   (1)   Minimum park design requirements. A mobile home park shall have a
minimum gross area as designated in the Township Zoning Ordinance and shall
comply with that Ordinance as to all its requirements including lot width, open
space and impervious surface ratios, building heights, and parking
requirements.
   (2)   Site Layout. Each mobile home shall be located on the lot so that
there will be a minimum of 30 feet between mobile homes and so that no mobile
home will be less than 25 feet from an exterior lot line or 35 feet from a
public street right of way. Uncovered decks or porches greater than 32 square
feet shall be considered part of the mobile home for the purpose of this
regulation. Covered decks or porches of any size shall be considered part of
the mobile home for the purpose of this regulation.
      (a)   No mobile home shall be located less than 15 feet from any private
street right-of-way or so that any part of such mobile home will obstruct any
roadway or walkway in a mobile home park.
      (b)   No service building shall be located within 15 feet of any private
street right-of-way.
      (c)   There shall be variety in the arrangement and orientation of mobile
homes, with particular attention given to topography and existing trees. Site
layout shall be designed to ensure that mobile home units are offset to avoid
long, uninterrupted corridors between the units.
      (d)   Accessory buildings of 120 square feet or less are authorized for
each mobile home; however, no accessory structure shall be closer than 20' to
an adjacent mobile home.
   (3)   Nonresidential uses. No part of any mobile home park shall be used for
nonresidential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well-being of mobile home park residents, their relatives and
invited guests, and for the management and maintenance of the mobile home park.
A retail store shall not be allowed.
   (4)   Plantings. In addition to street tree plantings, the park shall have
not less than two trees per mobile home lot, either existing or newly
installed. All plantings under this section shall meet the requirements of
Section
516.
   (5)   Erection and placement of mobile homes.
      (a)   All mobile homes shall have received a valid UCC permit prior to
placement.
      (b)   Additions and Alterations. No attached addition shall be built onto
or become a part of any mobile home without a building permit. Decks and
porches shall comply with UCC standards.
§ 805 Internal Street System.
   With the exception of those standards specified in this section, all
standards pertaining to streets in Article 5 shall govern the design and
construction of streets in a mobile home park.
      (a)   Access and Street Frontage. No mobile home shall have direct access
to a public street or road. Where mobile home lots are created having frontage
on an existing street within the Township, the mobile home park street pattern
shall provide reverse frontage access to an interior street within the mobile
home park, and not to the existing street.
      (b)   Street Widths. The mobile home park interior streets shall be
functionally classified as Local Access - interior road mobile home park.
         1)   The mobile home park entrance, connecting the park with a public
street or road, shall be functionally classified as Local Access - mobile home
park entrance and shall have a minimum cartway width of 28 feet and a right-of-
way width of 52 feet for a depth of at least 100 feet from the public street or
road. Thereafter, internal mobile home park roads shall have a minimum cartway
width of 20 feet and a right-of-way width of 40 feet.
      (c)   Required Illumination. In addition to the standards of Section
527 of this Ordinance, mobile home parks shall be furnished with lighting units
so spaced, and equipped with luminaires placed at such mounting heights, as
will provide adequate levels of illumination throughout the park for the safe
movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
§ 806 Off-Street Parking.
   (1)   Off-street parking for at least two motor vehicles shall be provided
at each mobile home site and shall have an all-weather paved surface acceptable
to the Township, which shall be specified in the plan. Individual parking
stalls shall have a width of at least ten feet, and a length of at least 20
feet.
   (2)   On-street parking is prohibited on internal roads.
   (3)   Additional parking spaces for vehicles of nonresidents shall be
provided at the rate of one space for every two mobile home lots. Such parking
spaces shall be provided through off-street common parking areas, and shall be
in locations that are sufficiently dispersed throughout the park to serve all
mobile home units, as determined by the Board of Supervisors.
§ 807 Sidewalks.
   All mobile home parks shall provide sidewalks in accordance with
specifications of Section
515 of this Ordinance and shall be compliant with the American Disabilities
Act.
§ 808 Common Open Space Areas.
   (1)   Minimum Amount of Common Open Space for Recreation. At least 10% of
the gross area of a mobile home park shall be devoted to a contiguous
noncommercial recreational area for use by the mobile home park residents.
Areas of any mobile home park interior road, water system or sanitary sewer
system shall not be included as part of the required recreational area. This
recreational area shall be free of all roads or other obstructions or hazards.
   (2)   Standards for Location and Management. Common open space areas shall
be located and designed as areas easily accessible to residents and preserving
natural features. Such areas shall comply with the standards for open space and
facilities contained in Section
512.2.A and
512.2.B of the Springfield Township Zoning Ordinance.
§ 809 Water Supply.
   The provisions of Section
520 of this Ordinance shall be applicable to all mobile home park developments.
§ 810 Sewage Treatment and Disposal.
   The provisions of Sections
521.1 and
521.3 of this Ordinance shall be applicable to all mobile home park
developments.
§ 811 Electrical Distribution System.
   (1)   Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of
wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with local electric power company’s specifications
regulating such systems.
   (2)   Power distribution lines. All power distribution lines located within
the private street right of way shall be placed in underground conduit. Conduit
specifications and minimum cover requirements shall meet or exceed be compliant
with NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, as amended.
   (3)   Individual electrical connections. Each mobile home site shall be
provided with an electrical connection compliant with applicable building
codes.
§ 812 Service Buildings and Other Service Facilities.
   (1)   Uses and Activities. The applicant may provide laundry facilities,
management office, indoor recreational facilities or sheltered waiting areas
for park residents only. Mailboxes shall be provided consistent with current
USPS regulations.
   (2)   Construction and Maintenance. Construction of service buildings shall
be in compliance with all applicable building codes and shall be maintained in
a clean, sanitary and structurally safe condition.
   (3)   Sales. No commercial sales of mobile homes shall be permitted on the
park premises.
§ 813 Refuse Handling.
   (1)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so constructed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (2)   Collection of garbage and rubbish shall be provided not less
frequently than once a week.
   (3)   Collection may be made at each mobile home site. If so, between
collections, garbage and refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, rodent-proof and
watertight containers.
   (4)   Alternatively, collection may be made at solid waste collection
stations at convenient but inconspicuous locations, each serving not more than
15 mobile homes. The stations shall consist of self-closing containers, with
separate containers for garbage and trash, placed on a concrete slab and
accessible for truck pick-up, and completely screened from view by solid
fencing.
   (5)   All park areas shall be kept free of litter and rubbish at all times.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 814 Insect and Rodent Control.
   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and
rodent harborage and infestation. Safe and effective methods and measures for
the extermination and control of insects and rodents shall be practiced
whenever necessary.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 815 Fuel Supply and Storage.
   (1)   Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems.
      (a)   The design, installation, and construction of containers and
pertinent equipment for the storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gasses
shall conform to the Propane and Liquefied Petroleum Gas Act, 35 P.S. §§ 1329.1
et seq.; and to the regulations therefore promulgated by the Pennsylvania
Department of Labor and Industry, or its successor.
      (b)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems provided for mobile homes, service
buildings or other structures when installed shall be maintained in conformity
with the rules and regulations of the State Department of Labor and Industry
and shall include the following.
         1)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve
excessive pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a
safe location.
         2)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be
maintained in effective operating condition.
         3)   All liquefied petroleum gas piping outside of the mobile homes
shall be well supported and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted
liquefied petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping
equipment or systems in mobile homes.
         4)   Vessels of at least 12 U.S. gallons and less than 60 U.S. gallons
gross capacity shall be maintained in a vertical position and shall be
securely, but not permanently, fastened to prevent accidental overturning. No
vessel shall be placed any closer to a mobile home exit than five feet, and no
closer to any window than three feet.
         5)   No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located
inside or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home or any other
structure.
         6)   All pipe connections shall be of a flare type.
   (2)   Fuel oil supply systems.
      (a)   All fuel oil supply systems provided for mobile homes, service
buildings and other structures shall be installed and maintained in conformity
with the rules and regulations of the authority having jurisdiction.
      (b)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened in place.
      (c)   All fuel oil supply systems provided for mobile homes, service
buildings and other structures shall have shut-off valves located within five
inches of storage tanks.
      (d)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely placed and
shall not be less than five feet from any mobile home exit, and not less than
three feet from any window.
      (e)   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be
protected against physical damage.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23-1975)
§ 816 Fire Protection.
   (1)   All mobile parks shall be provided with fire hydrants, as specified
under the terms of Section
520 of this ordinance.
   (2)   Portable hand-operated fire extinguishers of a type suitable for use
on oil fires and approved by the local fire prevention authority shall be kept
in each service building under park control.
§ 817 Miscellaneous Requirements.
   Responsibilities of park owner:
      (a)   The park owner shall operate the mobile home park in compliance
with this article and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park,
its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (b)   The park owner shall supervise the placement of each mobile home on
its mobile home site to ensure compliance with Section
804(2)(a)-(d).
      (c)   The park owner shall give the zoning officer free access to all
mobile home sites, service buildings and other service facilities for the
purpose of inspection.
      (d)   The park owner shall make provision so that all park streets shall
be maintained in passable condition and snow shall be removed as soon as it is
practical to do so.
Article 9
Ordinance Amendments; Penalties
§ 901 Enactment of Amendments.
   1.   Proposals for amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal may
be initiated by the governing body or by the Planning Commission.
   2.   In case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning
Commission, the governing body shall submit each such amendment to the Planning
Commission for recommendations at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for the
public hearing on such proposed amendment. At least 30 days prior to the
hearing on the amendment, the municipality shall also submit the proposed
amendment to the Bucks County Planning Commission for recommendations.
   3.   Within 30 days after adoption, the governing body shall forward a
certified copy of any amendment to the Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance to the Bucks County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 163, 2-28-2012, § 701; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 902 Amendment Hearings.
   1.   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the governing body
shall hold a public hearing. No amendment shall become effective until after
such hearing at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
   2.   Notice shall be given once each week for 2 successive weeks, the first
notice being not more than 30 days, and the second notice not less than 7 days
in advance of such hearings and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. Such notice shall state the time and place of
the hearing and shall include either the full text of the proposed amendment,
or the title and a brief summary, prepared by the municipal solicitor and
setting forth all the provisions in reasonable detail. If the full text is not
included:
      A.   A copy shall be supplied to a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality at the time the public notice is published.
      A.   An attested copy of the proposed ordinance shall be filed in the
County Law Library or other County office designated by the County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 702; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
§ 903 Penalties.
   1.   Preventative Remedies. In addition to the right of the Township to
enforce a Subdivision or Land Development Ordinance violation by means of an
action in equity in the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County, and other rights
the Township may have at law, including actions to recover damages and to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, the Township
may:
      A.   Refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval necessary to
further improve or develop any real property which has been developed or which
has resulted from a subdivision of real property in violation of this
Ordinance. This authority to deny such a permit or approval shall apply to any
of the following applicants:
         (1)   The owner of record at the time of such violation.
         (2)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation.
         (3)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent
to the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violations.
         (4)   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired
the property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether
such vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
      B.   As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting
of approval to any such owner, current owner, vendee, or lessee for the
development of real property which was subdivided in violation of this
Ordinance, the Township may require compliance with the conditions that would
have been applicable to the property at the time the applicant acquired an
interest in such property.
   2.   Enforcement Remedies. Any person, partnership or corporation who or
which has violated the provisions of the Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance, upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the municipality in district justice court, shall pay a judgment
of $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the municipality as a result thereof. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation, unless the district justice determining that
there has been a violation further determines that there was a good faith basis
for the person, partnership or corporation violating the Ordinance to have
believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed
to have been only one such violation until the 5th day following the date of
the determination of a violation by the district justice and thereafter each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   3.   In the event of a violation of this Ordinance, the Township may also
elect to pursue equitable remedies and any remedies deemed appropriate under
the Municipalities Planning Code being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. by a court of
competent jurisdiction in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-2012, § 703; Ord. 172, passed 6-24-2014, § 1)
APPENDIX A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-51.png]
 
APPENDIX B: PLAN NOTIFICATION
   Where applicable, the following notices shall be included on the subdivision
and/or land development plan:
1.   NOTICE OF PENNSYLVANIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (PennDOT) STATE
HIGHWAY ACCESS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
Driveway access to a State Highway shall be authorized only by Highway
Occupancy Permit issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation as
required pursuant to 36 P.S. § 670-420 of the Act of June 1, 1945, (P.P. 1242,
No. 428), known as the State Highway Law, being 36 P.S. §§ 670-101 et seq.
Building permits shall not be issued until said highway occupancy permit has
been issued.
Approval of this plan does not represent any guarantee or assurance by
Springfield Township that a Highway Occupancy Permit will be issued by the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   2.   NOTICE FOR ON-LOT SEWAGE PERMITS.
The planning module for land development has been approved by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection and the Bucks County Department of
Health as to the subdivision plan. However, the septic system permit has not
been issued for the lot(s) upon which new building(s) are proposed. Prior to
issuance of a building permit, a septic system permit shall be obtained and
presented to the Zoning Officer for each new building. Approval of this plan
does not guarantee permit issuance for sewage disposal.
   3.   NOTICE FOR ON-LOT WATER SUPPLIES.
The lots or building(s) in this development are planned to be served with water
by means of individual wells constructed, owned and operated by the owner of
the lot. No well water supply or quality testing has been conducted to verify
suitability of individual wells for this purpose. It is possible that any or
all of these lots do not have adequate soils or geology to provide an adequate
volume or quality of on-site water. The lot well must be drilled and water
supplies tested for volume and quality in accordance with Township requirements
prior to issuance of any building permit.
   4.   NOTICE FOR FLOODPLAIN IDENTIFICATION.
The grant of a permit or approval of a subdivision and/or land development plan
in the identified floodplain area shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the Township or by any official,
consultant, or employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed
use, and the owners hereby agree and acknowledge that such permits or approvals
shall not create any liability upon the Township, its officials, employees, or
consultants.
5.   NOTICES FOR DRAINAGE FACILITIES AND EASEMENTS.
A.   All drainage easements shown on this plan shall be maintained in the
condition identified on the plan, in accordance with the grades and designs
shown on the approved development plans for this project. All these easements
shall be kept free of all obstruction, including but not limited to, such
obstructions as fill, debris, temporary or permanent structures. The
maintenance of all such easements shall be the responsibility of the lot owner
on which the easement exists.
      B.   Drainage easements shall allow passage of stormwater in underground
storm sewer piping and associated structures, and/or allow passage of
stormwater over the surface of the ground and shall allow access across the
area for purposes of maintenance of the storm conveyance systems.
      C.   Existing roadside gutters or swales shall not be obstructed by
driveways or other fill or structures.
   6.   NOTIFICATION REGARDING MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC STREETS DURING
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
Mud sediment and/or debris tracked from the site onto public cartway shall be
immediately removed by brooming and/or mechanical means to the satisfaction of
the Township. Use of a backhoe bucket to scrape roadway surface is prohibited.
Where mud and/or sediment is causing slick and/or hazardous conditions, roadway
surface shall be immediately pressure washed to remove condition. All sediment
laden water must be filtered in a manner satisfactory to the Bucks County
Conservation District before entering storm sewers and/or drainage channels.
   7.   CLEARING OF DRIVEWAY PIPES.
The responsibility for the removal of debris from drain pipes located at the
end of driveways shall be borne by the individual property owner, and not the
Township. The property owner shall periodically inspect the pipe and remove all
debris to ensure that water can flow through it freely. In the event it becomes
necessary for the Township to clear the pipe, the cost of doing so shall be
assessed against the property owner.
   8.   GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS.
Revisions or modifications to design grading, drainage patterns, or building
locations as shown on the approved subdivision grading and drainage plans will
require a submission of a plot plan for review and approval by the Township.
Plot plan preparation requirements will be determined on a case by case basis
depending on extent of modifications proposed.
   9.   NOTICE FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION PLANS.
Any additional subdivision of this tract shall be deemed to be a major
subdivision for the purposes of the Subdivision Ordinance and shall follow the
procedure applying thereto.
   10.   NOTICE FOR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICANTS.
Applications for building permits, where excavation, grading, or location of
dwelling, driveway, septic system or other on-lot improvements is revised from
the approved subdivision plan, must be accompanied by a plot plan prepared by
an engineer or surveyor licensed in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania showing
the proposed and existing topography of the site; all existing improvements to
the site; dimensions, first floor elevations, and setbacks from the property
lines for all existing and proposed buildings; and location of all existing and
proposed wells, waterlines, utility lines, septic systems, sewer lines, storm
sewers, sump pump drains, easements, trees to be removed, trees to remain, etc.
The plan shall bear the imprint of the responsible licensed engineer or
surveyor.
   11.   NOTICE FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
A.   ON-LOT SEWAGE DISPOSAL - All subdivision and land development plans shall
contain a plan note specifying that approval of the plan does not guarantee
permit issuance for sewage disposal.
      B.   PUBLIC OR CENTRALIZED SEWERS - All subdivision and land development
plans shall contain a plan note specifying that connection to public sewer is
required.
APPENDIX C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-53.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-55.png]
 
APPENDIX D: AS-BUILT DRAWING REQUIREMENTS
   1.   General.
      A.   The following requirements listed within 1. thru 6. shall be
considered minimum standards. Additional detail and information may be required
by the Township depending on the specific project.
      B.   All individual sheets of as-built plans shall be signed and sealed
by the responsible licensed Land Surveyor.
      C.   Storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and utility as-built information shall
all be included on same plan and profile views. Independent plan sets for each
shall not be permitted unless specifically requested by the Township.
      D.   Proof set of plans shall be submitted to the Township for review of
completeness prior to preparation of final drawings. “Proof plan” shall be
titled as such. Final drawings shall consist of two (2) sets of reproducible
mylars and two (2) sets of paper prints of all plan sheets; and copy of plans
in a digital format acceptable to the Township.
      E.   Final as-built plan set shall include a reproducible mylar sheet of
the detention basin as-built.
      F.   As-built plans shall be prepared on standard 24" x 36" plan sheets
at a scale of 1" = 50' or at the design plan scale (whichever is larger).
      G.   All plan sheets shall include a standard Act 38 notification
requirement for location of underground utilities prior to excavation.
   2.   Stormwater Management Basins.
Stormwater Management as-built plan shall include but not be limited to the
following:
         (1)   Contours at 1 foot intervals.
         (2)   Spot elevations on the top of berm along interior and exterior
edges at 25 feet intervals.
         (3)   Spot elevations on the top of berm and spillway crest at all
four corners of the spillway; and spot elevations centrally on interior and
exterior edge of the spillway.
         (4)   Stage/storage calculations must be included on the plan.
         (5)   Size, type, length, inverts and slope of outfall pipe.
         (6)   Top of structure elevation and all associated inverts/sizes of
weirs and orifices on same.
         (7)   Inverts of all storm sewer pipes discharging into the basin.
         (8)   As-built information on constructed swales which discharge into
the basin shall be furnished upon request, as required by the Township.
   3.   Storm Sewer.
      A.   Drafting Standards.
         (1)   Plan shall be prepared utilizing standard plan and profile
paper.
         (2)   Horizontal scale must be 1" = 50' and vertical scale must be 1"
= 5', or at design plan scales (if larger).
         (3)   Plan view:
            a.   Plan view shall delineate all right-of-way and easement
boundaries and all property corners that intersect same.
            b.   Centerline stationing shall be included along all streets.
            c.   All   roadways, curbing and sidewalk shall be shown and
dimensioned.
            d.   All lot numbers shall be labeled.
      B.   Storm sewer as-built information shall include but not be limited to
the following:
         (1)   Grate and manhole rim elevations.
         (2)   Pipe sizes, types, lengths and slopes.
         (3)   Inverts of all inlets, manholes and endwalls.
         (4)   Types of endwalls shall be identified (e.g. “FES”, “DW”, “D”,
etc.)
         (5)   Location of all sump pump/roof drain tie-ins.
         (6)   Invert of storm sewer at sanitary sewer and utility crossings.
   4.   Sanitary Sewer.
      A.   As-built information shall be prepared in accordance with prevailing
standards and requirements of the applicable Authority.
      B.   At a minimum, Township as-built drawings shall include the following
on plan and profile views: location, size, and type of sewer mains, manholes,
laterals, etc.
   5.   Water System.
      A.   As-built information shall be prepared in accordance with prevailing
standards and requirements of the Springtown Water Authority.
      B.   At a minimum, Township as-built drawings shall include the following
on plan and profile views: location, size, and type of water mains, fire
hydrants, water valve boxes, laterals, tees, bends, etc.
   6.   Streets as-built information shall include, but not be limited to the
following:
      A.   Centerline spot elevations at a minimum of every 50 feet.
      B.   Spot elevations (bottom of curb or edge of pave) at ¼ points around
cul-de-sac turnarounds.
      C.   Centerline geometry.
      D.   Centerline stationing.
      E.   The above information may be included on utility plan and profile
sheets if it is clearly legible.
      F.   Typical street crossection drawing.
      G.   Approximate location of underdrain.
   7.   Miscellaneous.
      A.   Location of all conduit crossings for underground utilities through
easements and right-of-way must be shown.
      B.   Set of design plans for gas and electric service installation shall
be submitted to the Township with as-built plans. Design plans shall be used
for general reference only and shall not be referred to for purpose of as-built
information.
      C.   As-built plan of off street swales may be required when deemed
necessary by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
APPENDIX E: PLANT MATERIALS LIST
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height (FT) Street Tree Use Comments
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name  Common Name      Mature Height  Street Tree Use Comments
                                 (FT)
Acer nigrum     Black maple      50-60          Y
Acer rubrum     Red maple        40-60          Y
Acer            Silver maple     80-100         N
saccharinum
Acer saccharum  Sugar maple      60-75          N
Aesculus        Horsechestnut    60-70          N               Native species
hippocastanum                                                   only
Aesculus x      Red                                             Hybrid (A.pavia
carnea          horsechestnut    35-50          N               & A.
                                                                hippocastanum)
Betula          Yellow birch     60-80          N
alleghaniensis
Betula lenta    Black birch      60-80          N
Betula nigra    River birch      45-55          N
Betula          Gray birch       40-50          N
populifolia
Carya tomentosa Mockernut        50-70          N
                hickory
Carya           Bitternut        50-70          N
cordiformis     hickory
Carya glabra    Pignut hickory   50-70          N
Carya ovata     Shagbark hickory 50-70          N
Cladrastis      American         30-50          Y
kentukea        yellowood
Fagus           American beech   50-70          N
grandifolia
Ginkgo biloba   Ginkgo           50-70          Y               Use male only
                                                                Thornless
Gleditsia       Honeylocust      40-60          Y               variety only
tricanthos                                                      (i.e. v.
                                                                Inermis)
Gymnocladus     Kentucky                                        Not native to
diorcus         coffeetree       50-60          Y               area (use male
                                                                only)
 
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height (FT) Street Tree Use Comments
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name   Common Name     Mature Height  Street Tree Use Comments
                                 (FT)
Juglans nigra    Black walnut    50-70          N                
Larix laricina   Eastern larch   30-50          N               Native only in
                 (Tamarack)                                     central PA
Liquidambar      Sweet gum       50-75          Y               Refer foot note
straciflua                                                      (2)
Lirodendron      Tulip tree      75-100         N                
tulipfera
Magnolia         Cucumbertree    50-70          N                
acuminate
Metasequoia      Dawn redwood    65-85          N               Not native
glyptostroboides
Morus rubra      Red mulberry    50-70          N                
Nyssa sylvatica  Black gum       40-70          N                
Ostrya           American        30-40          Y                
virginiana       hornbeam
Platanus         American        75-100         N                
occidentialis    sycamore
Platanus x       London                                         Hybrid
acerifolia       planetree       70-80          Y               (P.orientalis &
                                                                P.occidentalis)
Populus          Eastern         75-100         N                
deltoides        cottonwood
Populus          Quaking aspen   40-60          N                
tremuloides
Prunus serotina  Black cherry    50-80          N                
Quercus          Sawtooth oak    40-50          N                
acutissima
Quercus alba     White oak       50-100         N                
Quercus bicolor  Swamp white oak 60-80          N                
Quercus coccinea Scarlet oak     70-90          Y                
Quercus          Bear oak        60-80          N                
ilicifolia
Quercus          Shingle oak     40-65          N                
imbricaria
Quercus          Bur oak         70-90          Y                
macrocarpa
Quercus montana  Chestnut oak    40-75          N                
 
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height (FT) Street Tree Use Comments
MEDIUM TO LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Three (3) inches minimum trunk diameter at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name   Mature Height  Street Tree Use Comments
                             (FT)
Quercus        Chinkapin oak 60-80          Y
muehlenbergii
Quercus        Pin oak       60-75          N               Refer foot note (3)
palustris (3)
Quercus        Willow oak    55-75          N
phellos
Quercus robur  English oak   60-80          Y
Quercus rubra  Red oak       60-80          Y
Quercus        Shumard oak   60-80          Y
shumardii
Quercus        Black oak     60-80          Y
velutina
Salix nigra    Black willow  60-80          N
Sassafras      Sassafras     30-50          N
albidum
Taxodium       Bald cypress  60-80          N               Not native
distichum
Tilia          Basswood
americana      (American     50-70          Y
               linden)
Tilia cordata  Littleleaf    60-80          Y
               linden
Tilia          Silver linden 50-70          Y
tomentosa
Ulmus
Americana                                                   Disease resistant
(disease       American elm  70-90          Y               varieties only
resistant
varieties)
Ulmus          Lacebark elm  40-50          Y
parvifolia
Ulmus rubra    Slippery elm  45-55          N
Zelkova        Japanese      60-70          Y               Not native
serrata        zelkova
(1)   General notes:
   a.   Medium to large deciduous trees shall not be utilized where potential
conflict may exist with overhead electric facilities.
   b.   Trees identified with “Y” within the street tree use column may be
utilized as street trees where there is no potential conflict with overhead
electric facilities.
(2)   Only seedless cultivars permitted when utilized as a street tree or
planted adjacent to parking lots, sidewalks, pedestrian paths and drainage
structures.
(3)   Quercus palustris (pin oak) has drooping branches and should not be
installed adjacent to parking lots, sidewalks, or pedestrian paths unless the
cultivar “Green pillar” is planted.
 
SMALL DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Two and one half (2-1/2) inches minimum caliper at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height (FT) Street Tree Use Comments
SMALL DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Two and one half (2-1/2) inches minimum caliper at installation)
Botanical Name   Common Name      Mature Height  Street Tree Use Comments
                                  (FT)
Acer buergeranum Trident Maple    20-30          Y               Not native
Acer ginnala     Amur maple       15-20          Y
Acer griseum     Paperbark maple  25-35          Y
Acer negundo     Box elder        30-40          Y
Acer tataricum   Tatarian maple   15-25          N
Alnus serrulata  Smooth alder     12-20          N
Amelanchier
(species &       Serviceberry     15-30          Y               Use tree form
varieties)
Asima triloba    Pawpaw           6-30           N
Carpinus         American         20-35          Y
caroliniana      hornbeam
Carpinus betulus European         35-40          N               Not native
                 hornbeam
Castanea pumila  Allegheny        20-25          N
                 chinkapin
Celtis           Common hackberry 25-30          N
occidertallis
Cercis           Eastern rudbud   25-30          Y
canadensis
Chionanthur      White fringetree 15-25          N
virginicus
Cornus           Pagoda dogwood   20-30          N
alternifolia
Cornus floridia  Flowering        20-30          N
                 dogwood
Cornus kousa     Kousa dogwood    20-30          N               Use tree form
Cornus mas       Cornelia dogwood 20-30          N
Cornus racemosa  Gray dogwood     20-30          N
Crataegus        Green hawthorn   20-30          N               Use tree form
viridis
Crataegus crus-  Cockspur                                        Use tree form
galli            hawthorn         15-20          N               (Thornless
                 (thornless)                                     variety only)
Crataegus        English hawthorn 15-20          N               Use tree form
laevigata
Crataegus        Washington
phaenopyrum      hawthorn         20-30          N               Use tree form
                 (thornless)
 
SMALL DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Two and one half (2-1/2) inches minimum caliper at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height (FT) Street Tree Use Comments
SMALL DECIDUOUS TREES (1)
(Two and one half (2-1/2) inches minimum caliper at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name      Mature Height  Street Tree Use Comments
                                (FT)
Crataegus      Dotted hawthorn  20-25          Y               Use tree form
punctata
Crataegus      General hawthorn 25-30          Y               Use tree form
viridis
Diospyros      Common persimmon 30-40          Y
virginiana
Hamamelis      Witch hazel      15-25          N
virginiana
Koelreuteria   Goldenrain tree  25-40          N
paniculata
Magnolia       Star magnolia    10-20          N               Use tree form
stellata
Magnolia       Sweetbay         15-25          Y               Use tree form
virginiana     magnolia
Malus (species Flowering        15-30          Y
& varieties)   crabapple
Prunus okame   Okame cherry     20-25          Y               Use tree form
Prunus         Pin cherry       25-40          N               Use tree form
pensylvanica
Prunus         Oriental cherry  20-25          N               Not native. Use
serrulata                                                      tree form
Prunus         Choke cherry     20-30          Y               Use tree form
virginiana
Syringa        Ivory silk/
(species &     lilacs           20-30          Y               Not native
varieties)
(1)   General notes:
   a.   Small deciduous trees may be utilized for street tree installation
only where medium to large trees may conflict with overhead electric
facilities.
   b.   Trees identified with “Y” within the street tree use column may be
utilized as street trees.
 
EVERGREEN TREES
(Six (6) feet minimum height at installation)
Botanical Name Common Name Mature Height Street Tree Use Comments
EVERGREEN TREES
(Six (6) feet minimum height at installation)
Botanical Name   Common Name        Mature Height Street Tree Use Comments
Abies balsamea   Balsam fir         60-80         N
Chamaecyparis    Atlantic white     50-70         N
thyoides         cedar
Ilex opaca       American holly     30-40         N
Juniperus        Eastern red cedar  30-60         N
virginiana
Picea abies      Norway spruce      60-80         N               Naturalized
Picea glauca     White spruce       40-60         N
Picea omorika    Serbian spruce     50-60         N               Not native
Picea pungens    Blue spruce        50-75         N
Picea rubens     Red spruce         60-80
Pinus echinata   Shortleaf pine     70-90         N
Pinus resinosa   Red pine           70-90         N
Pinus rigida     Pitch pine         40-60         N
Pinus strobus    Eastern white pine 100-140       N
Pinus virginiana Virginia pine      30-50         N
Pseudotsuga      Douglas fir        40-60         N               Not native
menziesli
Thuja            Eastern arborvitae 30-50         N
occidentailis
Tsuga canadensis Eastern hemlock    80-100        N
 
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name Common Name Comments
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name              Common Name                             Comments
Alnus incana                speckled alder, mountain alder
Alnus serrulata             smooth alder
Amelanchier arborea         downy serviceberry, shadbush, Juneberry
Aronia arbutifolia          red chokeberry
Aronia melanocarpa          black chokeberry
Castanea pumila             chinuapin
Ceanothus americanus        New Jersey tea, red root
Cephalantus occidentails    buttonbush
Clethra alnifolia           sweet pepper bush
Comptonia peregrina         sweer fern
Cornus alternifolia         paegoda dogwood
Cornus amomum               silky dogwood
Cornus racemosa             gray dogwood
Cornus sericea              red-twig dogwood
Corylus americana           American hazelnut
Corylus cornuta             beaked hazelnut
Diervilla lonicera          bush honeysuckle
Dirca palustris             leatherwood
Epigae re pens              trailing arbutus                        Evergreen
Euonymus americana          strawberry bush, brook euonymus
Gaultheria procumbens       wintergreen, checkerberry               Evergreen
Hamamelis virginiana        Witch Hazel
Hydrangea arborescens       wild hydrangea
Hypericum hypericoides ssp. St. Andrew’s cross
Hypericoides
Hypericum prolificum        shrubby St. John’s wort
 
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name Common Name Comments
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name               Common Name           Comments
Ilex glabra                  Inkberry
Ilex verticillata            winterberry
Kalmia angustifolia          sheep laurel          Evergreen
Kalmia latifolia             mountain laurel       Evergreen
Lindera benzoin              spicebush
Lyonia ligustrina            male-berry
Myrica pensylvanica          Northern bayberry
Physocarpus opulifolius      ninebark
Prunus virginiana            chokecherry
Rhododendron arborescens     smooth azalea
Rhododendron canadense       rhodora
Rhododendron maximum         rosebay, great laurel Evergreen
Rhododendron periclymenoides pinxterbloom azalea
Rhododendron prinophyllum    roseshell azalea
Rhododendron viscosum        swamp azalea
Rhus aromatica               fragrant sumac
Rhus copallinum              dwarf sumac
Rhus glabra                  smooth sumac
Rhus hirta                   stag horn sumac
Ribes cynosbati              prickly gooseberry
Rosa blanda                  smooth rose
Rosa Carolina                Carolina rose
Rosa palustris               Swamp rose
Rubus allegheniesis          Blackberry
Rubus idaeus ssp.strigosus   red raspberry
Rubus occidental is          black raspberry
 
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name Common Name Comments
NATIVE SHRUBS
(Three (3) feet minimum height at installation for buffer plantings)
Botanical Name                   Common Name                     Comments
Rubus odoratus                   thimbleberry                     
Salix bebbiana                   Bebb willow, long-beaked willow  
Salix discolor                   pussy willow                     
Sambucus canadensis              elderberry, red-berried elder    
Spiraea alba                     meadow sweet                     
Spiraea tomentosa                steeplebush                      
Staphylea trifolia               bladdernut                       
Symphoricarpos albus             snowberry                        
Taxus canadensis                 Canada yew                      Evergreen
Vaccinium aagustifolium          low-bush blueberry               
Vaccinium corymbosom             highbush blueberry               
Viburnum acerifolium             maple leaf viburnum              
Viburnum dentatum                southern arrowwood               
Viburnum lentago                 black haw, nannyberry            
Viburnum nudum var. cassindoides wild raisin                      
Viburnum prunifolium             black haw, nanny berry           
Viburnum regonitum               Northern arrowwood               
Virurnum trilobum                highbush cranberry               
 
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
APPENDIX F: NOXIOUS WEEDS AND INVASIVE PLANTS
Noxious Weeds
Scientific Name Noxious Common Name
Noxious Weeds
Scientific Name                              Noxious Common Name
Cannabis sativa L.                           marijuana
Carduus nutans L.                            musk thistle, nodding thistle
Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop.                   Canadian thistle
Cirsium vulgare (Savi) Ten.                  Bull thistle, spear thistle
Datura starmonium L.                         jimsonweed
Galega officinalis L.                        goatsrue
Heracleum mantegazzianum Sommier & Levier    giant hogweed
Lythrum salicaha L.                          purple loosestrife
Polygonum perfoliatum L.                     mile-a-minute
Pueraha Montana (Lour.) Merr. var. lobata
(Willd.) Maesen & S. Almeida Pueraha lobata  kudzu-vine
(Willd.) Ohwi
Rosa multiflora Thunb.                       multiflora rose
Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench                  shattercane
Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers.                 Johnsongrass
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, 2000; Pennsylvania noxious weed
control list (20 October 2003); Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.
 
Invasive Plants
The species listed below are serious threats to our native ecosystems. Some
have also been designated “Noxious Weeds” by the PA Department of
Agriculture.
Flowers
Scientific Name Common Name Notes
Invasive Plants
The species listed below are serious threats to our native ecosystems. Some
have also been designated “Noxious Weeds” by the PA Department of
Agriculture.
Flowers
Scientific Name          Common Name            Notes
                                                Commonly planted in the past
Aegopodium podagraria    Goutweed               and escaped; spreads
                                                aggressively by roots
                                                Invasive in many states;
Alliaha petiolata        Garlic mustard         spreading aggressively in
                                                woodlands by seed
Carduus nutans           Musk thistle           PA noxious Weed
Cirsium arvense          Canada thistle         PA noxious Weed
Cirsium vulgare          Bull thistle           PA noxious Weed
Datura stramonium        Jimsonweed             Sometimes cultivated; spreads
                                                by seed, PA Noxious Weed
Galega officinalis       Goatsrue               PA and Federal Noxious Weed
                                                PA and Federal Noxious Weed,
Heracleum mantegazzianum Giant hogweed          sap can cause burning
                                                blisters
                                                Planted in gardens; escaped
Hesperis matronalis      Dame’s rocket        and naturalized along roads;
                                                spreads by seed
Lythrum salicaha, L.                            Garden escape which has
virgatum                 Purple loosestife      become invasive in many
                                                states; PA noxious Weed
Myriophyllum spicatum    Eurasian water-milfoil Invasive in many states;
                                                aquatic
Ornithogallum nutans,    Star-of-Bethlehem      Common garden plant which has
umbellatum                                      widely escaped
                                                Found commonly along
Pastinaca sativa         Wild parsnip           roadsides; widespread and
                                                abundant; spread by seed
                                                Garden escape; widespread
Perilla frutescens       Beefsteak plant        mostly along roadsides;
                                                spread by seed
Polygonum (Falopia)                             Invasive in many states;
cuspidatum               Japanese knotweed      difficult to control; spreads
                                                by roots and seeds
                                                Spreads by roots and shoots;
Ranunculus ficaria       Lesser celandine       can be very aggressive in
                                                wetlands
                                                Wetland plant; should not be
Trapa natans             Water chestnut         introduced as it will escape,
                                                spread, and naturalize
 
Grasses
Scientific Name Common Name Notes
Grasses
Scientific Name       Common Name          Notes
                                           Annual grass; invasive
Bromus tectorum       Cheatgrass           throughout the west; spreads by
                                           seed
                                           Annual grass; invasive in many
Microstegium vimineum Japanese stilt grass states; spreading through
                                           woodlands by seed
                                           Commonly planted ornamental
Miscanthus sinensis   Maiden grass         grass which can escape and
                                           spread by seed
                                           Aggressive wetland grass;
Phalaris arundinacea  Reed canary grass    native and introduced strains;
                                           widespread and abundant
                                           Native and introduced strains;
Phragmites australis  Common reed          wetland grass which can form
                                           huge colonies
Sorghum bicolor ssp.  Shattercane          PA noxious Weed
Drummondii
Sorghum halepense     Johnson grass        PA noxious Weed; spreads by
                                           roots and seeds
 
Shrubs
Scientific Name Common Name Notes
Shrubs
Scientific Name              Common Name           Notes
                                                   Escaped from cultivation and
Berberis thunbergii          Japanese barberry     invasive in many states;
                                                   spread by birds
Berberis vulgaris            European barberry     Escaped from cultivation;
                                                   spread by birds
                                                   Escaped from plantings and
Elaegnus angustifolia        Russian olive         invasive in many states;
                                                   spread by birds
                                                   Escaped from plantings and
Elaeagnus umbellata          Autumn olive          invasive in many states;
                                                   rapidly spread by birds
Euonymus alatus              Winged Euonymus       Escaped from plantings;
                                                   invasive in moist forests
Ligustrum obtusifolium       Border privet         Escaped from cultivation;
                                                   seeds spread by birds
                                                   Planted very commonly in the
Ligustrum vulgare            Common privet         past and escaped; invasive
                                                   in many states
Lonicera maackii             Amur honeysuckle      Escaped from plantings;
                                                   seeds spread by birds
                                                   Escaped from plantings and
Lonicera morrowii            Morrow’s honeysuckleinvasive in many states;
                                                   seeds spread by birds
Lonicera morrowii x tatarica Bell’s honeysuckle  Escaped from cultivation
Lonicera standishii          Standish honeysuckle  Escaped from plantings;
                                                   seeds spread by birds
Lonicera tartarica           Tartarian honeysuckle Escaped from plantings;
                                                   seeds spread by birds
Rhamnus catharticus          Common buckthorn      Becoming a problem in PA
Rhamnus frangula             Glossy buckthorn      Becoming a problem in PA
Rubus phoenicolasius         Wineberry             Common bramble; not
                                                   cultivated; spread by seed
                                                   Invasive in many states;
Rosa multiflora              Multiflora rose       seeds spread by birds; PA
                                                   noxious Weed
Spiraea japonica             Japanese spiraea      Frequently planted; escaped
                                                   in some areas
                                                   Resembles native Viburnum
Viburnum opulus var. opulus  Guelder rose          thlobum which it replaces;
                                                   both are cultivated and
                                                   planted
 
Trees
Scientific Name Common Name Notes
Trees
Scientific Name     Common Name    Notes
Acer platanoides    Norway maple   Commonly planted and escaped; invasive in
                                   many states; wind spreads prolific seeds
Acer pseudoplatanus Sycamore maple Escaped from cultivation; wind spreads
                                   prolific seeds
Ailanthus altissima Tree-of-heaven Invasive in many states; wind spreads
                                   prolific seeds
Paulownia tomentosa Princess tree  Prolific seeds fall to start new seedlings
Pyrus calleryana    Callery pear   Commonly planted street tree; becoming a
                                   problem as an escape
Ulmus pumila        Siberian elm   Escaped from cultivation
 
Vines
Scientific Name Common Name Notes
Vines
Scientific Name             Common Name          Notes
Akebia quinata              Fiveleaf akebia      Escaped from cultivation
Ampelopsis brevipedunculata Porcelain-berry      Escaped from cultivation
                                                 Escaped from cultivation and
Celastrus orbiculatus       Oriental bittersweet invasive in many states;
                                                 spreading rapidly (by birds)
Lonicera japonica           Japanese honeysuckle Invasive in many states
Polygonum perfoliatum       Mile-a-minute vine   Range expanding; PA Noxious
                                                 Weed
Pueraria lobata             Kudzu                Invasive in many states; PA
                                                 Noxious Weed
 
This list of invasive species is not meant to be definitive, but rather a
guideline to some of the most troublesome species that degrade native plant
communities in Pennsylvania. These species were chosen from a more extensive
list compiled from adjacent state or regional lists of invasive plant species.
Input was sought from experienced individuals familiar with Pennsylvania’s
flora from a field perspective. For more extensive information on invasive
species, visit the DCNR Invasive Exotic Plant Tutorial webpage.
CHAPTER 154: ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
154.01   Zoning Ordinance
§ 154.01 ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance is set forth as
Appendix A of this Chapter 154.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007; Ord. 149, passed 4-29-
2008; Ord. 154, passed 11-24-2009; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010; Ord. 158, passed
8-24-2010; Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015; Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord.
202, passed 2-28-2023; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
APPENDIX A: ZONING
Article 1
Title, Purpose and Jurisdiction
   §
101   Title
   §
102   Short Title
   §
103   Purposes
   §
104   Interpretation
Article 2
Definitions
   §
201   General
   §
202   Definitions
Article 3
Establishment of Districts
   §
301   Establishment of Districts
   §
302   Names of Districts
   §
303   Zoning Map
   §
304   Interpretation of District Boundaries
   §
305   Purposes of Districts
Article 4
Use Regulations
   §
401   Applicability of Regulations
   §
402   Uses Subject to Other Regulations; Uses per Lot
   §
403   Uses Not Specifically Addressed
   §
404   Additional Regulations for Specific Uses
Article 5
General Provisions Applicable to All Districts
   §
501   Dimensional Requirements
   §
502   Outdoor Illumination
   §
503   Buffer Yards
   §
504   Off-Street Parking Requirements
   §
505   Access Drives
   §
506   Off-Street Loading and Unloading Requirements
   §
507   Provisions and Use of Water
   §
508   Performance Standards
   §
509   Environmental Protection Standards
   §
510   Natural Resource Mapping and Site Capacity Calculations
   §
511   Reserved for Future Use
   §
512   Design, Maintenance, and Ownership of Open Space
   §
513   Planned Group Development
   §
514   HR Historic Resources Overlay District
   §
515   SD Scenic Overlay District Provisions
   §
516   Requirement for Internal Streets; Rear Yards along a Street
   §
517   Source Water and Wellhead Protection
Article 6
District Regulations
   §
601   WS Watershed District
   §
602   AD Agriculture District
   §
603   RP Resource Protection District
   §
604   RR Rural Residential District
   §
605   DD Development District
   §
606   VC Village Commercial District
   §
607   VR Village Residential District
   §
608   HC Highway Commercial District
   §
609   PI Planned Industrial District
Article 7
Floodplain District
(Floodway Protection)
   [See
Chapter 151]
Article 8
Conditional Uses
   §
801   General
   §
802   Conditional Use Standards
   §
803   Environmental Impact Assessment for Solid Waste Facilities
   §
804   Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Solid Waste Facilities
   §
805   Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Commercial Wind-Powered Generating Facilities
   §
806   Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Commercial Solar-Powered Generating Facilities
Article 9
Signs
   §
901   Purposes
   §
902   Permit Required
   §
903   Enforcement
   §
904   Definitions
   §
905   General Regulations Applicable to All Districts
   §
906   Off-Lot Advertising Signs
   §
907   On-Lot Signs Permitted in WS Watershed District, AD Agricultural
District, RP Resource Protection District, RR Rural Residential District, VR
Village Residential District and DD Development District (Non-Commercial
Districts)
   §
908   Signs in the VC Village Commercial District
   §
909   Signs Permitted in the HC Highway Commercial and PI Planned Industrial
Districts
   §
910   Directional Signs Permitted in All Districts
Article 10
Zoning Hearing Board
   §
1001   Establishment of the Board
   §
1002   Membership, Terms of Office
   §
1003   Alternate Members
   §
1004   Organization of the Zoning Hearing Board
   §
1005   Persons Entitled to Initiate Action Before the Board and Jurisdiction
   §
1006   Manner of Initiating Action Before the Board
   §
1007   Time Limitations
   §
1008   Mediation Option
   §
1009   Hearings
   §
1010   Powers and Duties
   §
1011   Validity of Ordinance; Substantive Questions
   §
1012   Expiration of Approvals
Article 11
Nonconformities
   §
1101   Continuation of Nonconformities
   §
1102   Expansion of Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   §
1103   Discontinued Nonconforming Use
   §
1104   Changes in Nonconforming Uses
   §
1105   Destroyed Nonconforming Structures
   §
1106   Building Condemned
   §
1107   Signs
   §
1108   Displacement by a Nonconformity
   §
1109   Registration of Nonconforming Uses
Article 12
Administration
   §
1201   Enforcement
   §
1202   Zoning Permit Requirements
   §
1203   Zoning Permit Application
   §
1204   Issuance of Permits and Occupancy Certificates
   §
1205   Fees
Article 13
Amendments, Remedies, Penalties, and Complaints
   §
1301   Power of Amendment
   §
1302   Public Hearings Prior to Amendment
   §
1303   Private Petition for Amendment
   §
1304   Submission to the Township Planning Commission and County Planning
Commission
   §
1305   Proposals by Private Curative Amendment
   §
1306   Municipal Curative Amendment
   §
1307   Enforcement
   §
1308   Complaints of Violations
   §
1309   Appeals to Court
   
Appendix A: Uses by Zoning District Summary
   
Appendix B: Historic Resources List
   
Appendix C: Zoning Map
   
Appendix D: Source Water Protection Map
   
Appendix E: Carbonate Geology Overlay Map (Rev 0)
Article 1
Title, Purpose and Jurisdiction
§ 101 Title.
   An Ordinance regulating the location, height, volume, erection,
construction, alteration, razing and size of structures; the percentage of lot
which may be occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces; the
density and distribution of population; the intensity of use of land or bodies
of water for trade, industry, residence, recreation, public activities or other
purposes, and the uses of land for agriculture, water supply, conservation,
soil conservation, forestry, significant wildlife and aquatic habitat, or other
purposes; and providing for the administration, enforcement, and amendment of
this Ordinance in accordance with the provisions of the “Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code” as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 100)
§ 102 Short Title.
   This Ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as the “Springfield
Township Zoning Ordinance” of 2007.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 101)
§ 103 Purposes.
   In addition to serving the purposes that are authorized for a zoning
ordinance in the State Municipalities Planning Code and the goals and
objectives of the Township Comprehensive Plan, which are hereby included by
reference, the purpose of this Ordinance is to promote, protect and facilitate
the public health, safety, and the general welfare by:
      A.   Providing standards to control the amount of open space and
impervious surfaces within a development; to control the intensity of
development in areas of sensitive natural resources or natural features in
order to reduce or eliminate adverse environmental impacts; to protect the
people’s right to clean air, pure water, and the natural scenic, historic, and
aesthetic values of the environment; and to protect natural resources which are
part of the ecological system to which we are all bound, and therefore are the
common property of all the people, including generations yet to come, and must
be protected to insure the health, safety, and welfare of all the people.
      B.   Giving effect to the community objectives, policies and proposals of
the Springfield Township Comprehensive Plan as amended and incorporated therein
as the comprehensive plan required by § 606 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code as amended.
      C.   Securing safety from fire, panic, flood, and other dangers.
      D.   Providing adequate light and air.
      E.   Controlling and regulating the growth of the area, concentrating
development in areas where adequate water, sewage, roads and schools can be
provided and limiting development in areas where these facilities cannot be
provided.
      F.   Provide standards for all types of dwelling units so that all the
people may have access to decent, sound, and sanitary housing; and to meet the
goals of the Federal Housing Act of 1949.
      G.   Promoting such distribution of population and such classification of
land uses and distribution of land development and utilization as will tend to
facilitate and conserve adequate provisions for transportation, water flow,
water supply, drainage, sanitation, schools, parks, and other public
facilities; educational opportunities, recreation, soil fertility, and food
supply.
      H.   Lessening the danger and congestion of traffic on the roads and
highways and reducing excessive numbers of roads.
      I.   Protecting the tax base.
      J.   Securing economy in governmental expenditures.
      K.   Fostering agricultural and other industries; to preserve prime
agricultural and farmland considering topography, soil type and classification,
and present use.
      L.   Protecting both urban and non-urban development through the use of a
development district for urban uses and rural residential and resource
protection districts for non-urban development.
      M.   Providing for the use of land within the Township for residential
housing of various dwelling types encompassing all basic forms of housing as
described in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
      N.   Accommodating reasonable overall community growth including
population and employment growth, and opportunities for development of a
variety of residential dwelling types and nonresidential uses.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 102)
§ 104 Interpretation.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Ordinance, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public, health,
safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
      A.   Whenever any regulations made under authority of this Ordinance
require a greater width or size of yards, courts or other open spaces, or
require a lower height of buildings, or smaller number of stories, or require a
greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher
standards than are required in or under any other statute, the provisions of
the regulations made under authority of this Ordinance shall govern.
      B.   Whenever the provisions of any other statute require a greater width
of size of yards, courts or other open spaces, or require a greater percentage
of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than are
required by and regulations made under authority of this Ordinance, the
provisions of such statute shall govern.
      C.   This Ordinance does not repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair
or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those
specifically or impliedly repealed by this Ordinance, or any private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement
unless repugnant hereto.
      D.   Provisions in the Springfield Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance providing for varying design standards shall not be
considered to be in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 103)
Article 2
Definitions
§ 201 General.
   1.   Unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following words and
phrases shall have for the purpose of this Ordinance the meanings given in the
following clauses.
   2.   For the purpose of this Ordinance words and terms used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
      A.   Words used in the present tense include the future.
      B.   The singular includes the plural.
      C.   The word “person” includes a corporation, partnership, and
association as well as the individual.
      D.   The word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel.”
      E.   The term “shall” is mandatory.
      F.   The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be
occupied.”
      G.   The word “municipal” or “municipality” means Springfield Township.
      H.   The words “governing body” refer to the Board of Supervisors of
Springfield Township.
      I.   The word “Commission” and the words “Planning Commission” always
mean the Springfield Township Planning Commission.
      J.   The word “Engineer” means Springfield Township Engineer.
      K.   The word “Board” or the words “Zoning Hearing Board” always mean the
Springfield Township Zoning Hearing Board.
      L.   The word “Authority” shall mean the Springfield Township Authority.
   3.   Any word or term not defined herein shall be used with a meaning of
standard usage.
   4.   If a word or term is not defined by this Ordinance, but is defined in
the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (SALDO), then the SALDO
definition shall apply. If a word or term is not defined in this Ordinance or
the SALDO, then the word or term shall have its plain and ordinary meaning
within the context of the Section. In such case, in case of a dispute, a
standard reference dictionary shall be consulted.
   5.   The words “such as,” “includes,” “including” and “specifically” shall
provide examples.
   These examples shall not, by themselves, limit a provision to the examples
specifically mentioned if other examples would otherwise comply with the
provision.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 200)
§ 202.   Definitions.
   Accessory building–see the definition of “building, accessory.”
   Accessory structure–a structure serving a purpose customarily incidental to
and subordinate to the use of the principal use and located on the same lot as
the principal use.
   Accessory structures include, but are not limited to, a household garage,
household storage shed, detached carport, a household swimming pool, or an
accessory storage building to a business use. An “accessory building” is any
accessory structure that meets the definition of a “building.” A portion of a
principal building used for an accessory use shall not be considered an
accessory building.
   Accessory use–a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use.
   Active recreational use–use involving leisure time activities and/or areas,
typically involving sports, requiring equipment, or occurring at prescribed
sites or fields (e.g., soccer, football, baseball, tennis, swimming, fitness
trails and similar activities).
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
   Adult entertainment–the definitions under Use E-1 in §
404.E(1) shall apply.
   Agriculture–a principal use involving the cultivating of soil, the raising
and keeping of livestock and poultry and the harvesting of the products of the
soil, including horticulture.
   Agricultural soils, productive–productive agricultural soils shall mean
those soils recognized and classified as either prime agricultural soils or
agricultural soils of Statewide importance according to the United States
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Soils
Survey, Bucks County, 2002. They consist of the following:
Prime Agricultural Soils
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
Prime Agricultural Soils
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
AIA               Alton gravelly loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AIB               Alton gravelly loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ArB               Arendtsville gravelly silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BeA               Bedington channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
BeB               Bedington channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BrB               Brecknock channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
BsA               Brownsburg silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
BsB               Brownsburg silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CdA               Chester silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CdB               Chester silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CmB               Clarksburg silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DaA               Delaware loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
DaB               Delaware loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DfB               Duffield silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
DuA               Duncannon silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
DuB               Duncannon silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
EcB               Edgemont channery loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
FoA               Fountainville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
FoB               Fountainville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
GIB               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
GrA               Glenville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
GrB               Glenville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LgA               Lansdale loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LgB               Lansdale loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LkA               Lawrenceville silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LmA               Lehigh channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
LmB               Lehigh channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
Lt                Linden loam
MaB               Manor loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
McA               Matapeake silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
McB               Matapeake silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
MdA               Mattapex silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
MIA               Mount lucas silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
MIB               Mount lucas silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
NbB               Neshaminy silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PeA               Penn channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
PeB               Penn channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PnB               Penn-Lansdale complex, 3 to 8 percent slopes
RaA               Raritan silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
RaB               Raritan silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ReA               Readington silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
Ro                Rowland silt loam
WaB               Washington silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
 
Agricultural Soils of Statewide Importance
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
Agricultural Soils of Statewide Importance
Manuscript Symbol Soil Name
AbA               Abbottstown silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AbB               Abbottstown silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
AbC               Abbottstown silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
AmA               Amell silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
AmB               Amell silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
ArC               Arendtsville gravelly silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BeC               Bedington channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BrC               Brecknock channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BsC               Brownsburg silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
BwB               Buckingham silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CbA               Chalfont silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CbB               Chalfont silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
CdC               Chester silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
CyB               Culleoka-weikert channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
CyC               Culleoka-weikert channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
DgC               Duffield-ryder silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
EcC               Edgmont channery loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
FoC               Fountainville silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
GIC               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
GID               Gladstone gravelly silt loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
GnC               Glenelg channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
Ha                Hatboro silt loam (Farmland of statewide importance)
KIB               Klinesville very channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LgC               Lansdale loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
LgD               Lansdale loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
LkB               Lawrenceville silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
LmC               Leigh channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
MaC               Manor loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
MIC               Mount lucas silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
NbC               Neshaminy silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
NkA               Nockamixon silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
NkB               Nockamixon silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
NkC               Nockamixon silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PeC               Penn channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PkB               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
PkC               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
PkD               Penn-klinesville channery silt loam, 15 to 25 percent slopes
PnC               Penn-lansdale complex channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent
                  slopes
RaC               Raritan silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
ReB               Readington silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
RIA               Reaville channery silt loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes
RIB               Reaville channery silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
RIC               Reaville channery silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
StB               Steinsburg gravelly loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
StC               Steinsburg gravelly loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
WaC               Washington silt loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes
 
   If, in the future, the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resources Conservation Service, Soils Survey, Bucks County, 2002, is amended or
revised to include different soils types under the classification of prime
agricultural soils or agricultural soils of Statewide importance, the
definition of productive agricultural soils contained herein shall be deemed to
be amended to include such soils.
   Alteration–as applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts, or an enlargement or diminution, whether by extending
on a side or by increasing in height, or the moving from one location or
position to another.
   Alluvial soil–areas subject to periodic flooding as defined in latest
officially issued soil survey information by the U.S. Conservation and Natural
Resources Service.
   Animal equivalent units (AEUs)–the definition and method of calculation in
State Nutrient Management Regulations shall apply, except that under this
Ordinance, AEUs are based upon acreage of a lot or adjacent lots in common
ownership, and not acreage that is available for disposal of wastes. (Note:
Animal equivalent units are based upon live weight per acre of livestock or
poultry, calculated on an annualized basis. An animal equivalent unit (AEU) is
1,000 pounds live weight of livestock or poultry animals, regardless of the
actual number of individual animals comprising the unit.)
   Animal feeding operation (AFO)–a lot or facility where livestock are stabled
or confined and fed or maintained for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-
month period, and where crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest
residues are not sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the
lot or facility.
   Annular space–the space between two cylindrical objects, one of which
surrounds the other, such as the space between a drill hole and a casing pipe.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Antenna–a device used to collect or transmit telecommunications or
electromagnetic signals. Examples are: panels, microwave dishes, and single
pole known as whips.
   Aquifer–a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation
that contains sufficient saturated permeable material to yield significant
quantities of water to wells and springs. ASTM. American Society for Testing
and Materials.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Area–
      Building area–the total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces, and steps.
      Floor area–the sum of the areas of the several floors of the building or
structure, including areas used for human-occupancy or required for the conduct
of the business or use and basements, attics, and penthouses, as measured from
the exterior faces of the walls. It does not include cellars, unenclosed
porches, attics not used for human occupancy, nor any floor space in the
accessory building not in the main building intended or designed to meet the
parking requirements of this Ordinance, nor any such floor space intended and
designed for accessory heating and ventilating equipment.
   Assisted Living or Personal Care–A use in which food, shelter and personal
assistance or supervision are provided for a period exceeding 24 hours, for
four or more adults who are not relatives of the operator, who do not require
the services in or of a licensed skilled nursing care facility, but who do
require assistance or supervision in activities of daily living or instrumental
activities of daily living.
   Bank or streambank–the sides of a watercourse channel that contains or may
contain water under some conditions.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Basal area–the cross sectional area of the stem of a tree measured 4½ feet
above grade (dbh).
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
   Basal area per acre–the sum of each tree’s basal area in a woodland divided
by the number of acres within the woodland.
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
   Base site area–the total area of a lot or tract of land minus the area
devoted to ultimate right-of-way or restrictive easements and minus the area
cut from the parcel by streets or other parcels and minus the area covered by
previous subdivisions, as calculated under Article 5.
   Basement–a story partly underground, but having one-half or more of its
height (measured from floor to ceiling) above the average level of the
adjoining ground. A basement shall be counted as a story for the purpose of
height measurement and determining square footage, only if the vertical
distance between the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining ground is
more than 4 feet, or if used for business or dwelling purposes.
   Boring/borehole–a penetration of soil and/or rock that is augured drilled,
cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted, or otherwise constructed which is
generally cylindrical in shape and whose diameter is generally smaller than its
depth of penetration.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Buffer yard or buffer–a landscaped strip of land that (A) separates one use
from another use or district, and (B) is not occupied by any building, parking,
outdoor storage or any use other than open space or approved pedestrian
pathways.
   Building–a structure having a roof that is used for the shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals, or property. The word “building” shall include any part
thereof.
   Building, accessory–a subordinate building located on the same lot as a
principal building and clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal
building. A portion of a principal building devoted or intended to be devoted
to an accessory use is not an accessory building.
   Building, principal–a building in which is conducted, or is intended to be
conducted, the principal use of the lot on which it is located.
   Building coverage–that percentage of the lot area covered by the building
area (the aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross-section areas of all
buildings on a lot including accessory structures, above the ground level,
measured at the greatest outside dimensions).
   Building Envelope–The maximum three-dimensional space on a lot within which
a structure can be built, as permitted by applicable height, building setback,
and yard requirements.
   Building height–the vertical distance measured from the elevation of the
proposed finished grade to the highest point of the roof, measured along the
front of the building. However, for a peaked or pitched roof, the maximum
height may be measured to the mean height between the base of the roof and the
top of the roof, provided that the roof area above the maximum building height
is not inhabited by persons. See also exceptions in §
501.8.
   Building setback line–the rear line of the minimum front yards, as herein
designated for each use and district, measured at a distance equal to and no
greater than the minimum front yard setback from the ultimate right-of-way
line.
   Building spacing–the minimum distance between buildings. The minimum
building spacing shall be measured from the outermost wall or projection,
excluding bay windows, chimneys, flues, columns, ornamental features, cornices
and gutters.
   Candela–the SI unit of luminous intensity. One candela (cd) is one lumen per
steradian (1 lm/sr). 1 candela = 1 candlepower (cp; the English system measure
of luminous intensity).
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Carbonate geologic formation–carbonate geologic formations consist of
limestone and dolomite bedrock; specifically Allentown Dolomite and Leithsville
formation.
   Cartway–the hard or paved surface portion of any street, or that portion of
a street customarily used by vehicles in the regular course of travel over the
street.
   Casing–an impervious durable pipe placed in a well to prevent the walls from
caving and to seal off surface drainage or undesirable water, gas, or other
fluids and prevent their entering the well.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Cavern–a subterranean cavity or cave.
   Cellar–a story partly underground and having more than one-half of its
height (measured from floor to ceiling) below the average level of the
adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be considered in determining the
permissible number of stories or square footage.
   Closed depression–remnants of sinkholes that have partially filled with soil
by erosion and settlement of the sinkhole walls, generally found in areas of
carbonate geologic formations.
   Closed-loop geothermal system–a type of geothermal heating and/or cooling
system that utilizes a pressurized heat exchanger consisting of pia circulating
pump, and a water-source heat pump in which the heat transfer fluid is not
exposed to the atmosphere. The heat transfer fluid is potable or beneficial
reuse water and may have approved antifreeze added.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Contractor–any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation,
group, or entity employed, hired, contracted, or others engaged by the owner to
perform defined services for compensation.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Cluster development–a development method that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on a site to a specified amount of land to be permanently
preserved in Township-approved types of open spaces or involving the
preservation of productive agricultural soils or environmentally sensitive
lands as provided by this Ordinance.
   Commercial communications antenna/tower–a structure, partially or wholly
exterior to a building, used for transmitting or re-transmitting electronic
signals through the air, and that does not involve simple receipt of
television, radio or amateur ham radio signals. Commercial communications
antennae shall include, but are not limited to, antennae used for transmitting
commercial radio or television signals, or to receive such signals for a cable
system, or to re-transmit cellular telephone or other wireless
telecommunications. A commercial communications tower shall be a structure over
30 feet in height that is primarily intended to support one or more antenna.
   Commercial district–the VC and HC Districts, and any CBD (Central Business
District) that may be subsequently established.
   Commercial Motor Vehicle–Any motor vehicle or combination used on a highway
in commerce to transport passengers or property when the vehicle meets one of
the following conditions:
      a)   Has a gross vehicle weight rating, of 17,001 pounds or more;
      b)   Is designed or used to transport more than 8 passengers (including
the driver) for compensation;
      c)   Is designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers (including
the driver) and is not used to transport passengers for compensation;
      d)   Is a school bus;
      e)   Is transporting hazardous materials which is required to be
placarded in accordance with PA Department of Transportation regulations
   Concentrated animal feeding operation (CFAO)–a CAO that (1) has more than
300 Animal Equivalent Units (AEUs); or (2) maintains an animal population of
greater than 1,000 AEUs; or (3) is defined as a large CAFO under U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations at 40 CFR 122.23(b)(4) (PA
DEP, Chapter 92a regulations). A CAFO is also a AFO of any size that discharges
its waste into a natural or man-made ditch, stream or other waterway.
   Concentrated animal operation (CAO)–an agricultural operation with eight or
more AEUs where the animal density exceeds two AEUs per acre on an annualized
basis.
   Condominium–a condominium is an ownership arrangement. A condominium is a
structure that has all of the following characteristics:
      A.   The unit, the interior and associated exterior areas designated for
private use in the development plan, is owned by the occupant or his lessor.
      B.   The unit may be any type of permitted structure.
      C.   All or a portion of the exterior open space and any community
interior spaces are owned and maintained in accordance with applicable State
law regarding condominiums and in accordance with the provisions for open
space, roads, or other development features in this Ordinance and the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
   Conservation easement–a legal agreement granted by a property owner that
strictly limits the types and amounts of development that may take place on
such property. Such easement shall restrict the original and all subsequent
property-owners, lessees and all other users of the land.
   Conversion–any change to or in a building that would alter its use
classification.
   Cul-de-sac–a street with an intersection at a street at one end and
terminating at the other end in a vehicular turnaround.
   Cutoff angle (of a luminaire)–the angle, measured from the point directly
beneath the light source (nadir), between the vertical axis and the first line
of sight at which the bare source is not visible.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   dbh–diameter-breast-height. 4.5 feet above grade.
   Decision–final adjudication of any board or other body granted jurisdiction
under this Ordinance, either by reason of the grant of exclusive jurisdiction
or by reason of appeals from determinations. All decisions shall be appealable
to the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County and the judicial district wherein
the Township lies, unless otherwise provided by this Ordinance.
   Decommissioning–the act of rendering a well or borehole to a condition where
there is no pathway present for surface or subsurface contaminants to travel
down to the water table. DEP. Pennsylvania (PA) Department of Environmental
Protection.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Dementia/Memory Care–care provided to those with varying degrees of dementia
or Alzheimer’s disease. Features services and amenities designed to enhance the
residents’ quality of life and create a sense of safety and security. Creates a
structured environment that has set schedules and routines in place to lessen
stress, safety features to ensure the health of a senior, and programs designed
to cultivate cognitive skills.
   Density–density is a measure of the number of dwelling units per unit of
area. It shall be expressed in dwelling units per acre.
   DEP–the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   Determination–final action by an officer, body or agency charged with the
administration of this Ordinance or applications there under, except the Board
of Supervisors and Zoning Hearing Board. Determinations shall be appealable
only to the boards designated as having jurisdiction for such appeal.
   Development–any man-made changes to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, the placement or
mobile homes, streets or other paving, utilities, filling, grading, excavation,
mining, dredging or drilling operations and the subdivision of land.
   Direct light–light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of a luminaire.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Disappearing streams–streams that empty completely into a sinkhole or
cavern.
   Drilling–any act of penetrating soil or rock, such as boring, coring,
washing, jetting, driving, or digging.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
    Dwelling–a structure containing one or more dwelling units.
   Dwelling unit–a single habitable living unit that shall be occupied by only
one “family.” See definition of “family.” Each dwelling unit shall have: (A)
its own toilet, bath or shower, sink, sleeping and cooking facilities, and (B)
separate access to the outside or to a common hallway or balcony that connects
to outside access at ground level.
   Easement–a grant of the use of a parcel of land for the use of the public, a
corporation, or person, for a specified purpose.
   Even-age management–management of a forest stand where the range in tree age
does not exceed 20 percent of the rotation length resulting in a forest
consisting of trees of the same or nearly the same age.
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
   Family–A collective body of persons who live in one house and under one head
or management.
   Farmland lot–a lot that meets applicable provisions of this Ordinance for a
“farmland lot,” and which serves to maintain open, contiguous, and productive
or potentially productive farmland on a lot that is viable for agricultural
uses.
   Felling–the art of cutting a standing tree so that it falls to the ground.
   Fixture–see “luminaire.”
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Flood or spot light–any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a reflector
or refractor to concentrate light output into a directed beam in a particular
direction.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Floodplain–any areas of the Township, classified as special flood hazard
areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated March 16, 2015, and issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof,
including all digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study.
   For areas abutting streams and watercourses where the 100-hundred year
floodplain (1 percent annual chance flood) has not been delineated by the Flood
Insurance Study, a study prepared by a registered professional engineer expert
in the preparation of hydrologic and hydraulic studies shall be used to
delineate the 100-year floodplain.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015)
   Floodplain area (general)–a relatively flat or low land area which is
subject to partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream,
river or watercourse; and any area subject to the unusual and rapid
accumulation of surface waters from any source.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015)
   Footcandle–a unit of illuminance. One footcandle is one lumen per square
foot (1 lm/ft2) of incident light.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Forest cover–a category of forest defined by its species composition and
environmental factors.
   Forest management plan–a written description with a map of a specific
forestry operation prepared before the operation commences, which meets the
requirements of §
404.A(3) of this Ordinance and the provisions herein.
   Forest plan preparer–a forester who has a minimum of 4 years experience in
the field of forestry including the preparation of forestry plans.
   Forest technician–a person who is, as a minimum, a graduate of a 2-year
forest technician program established by the Society of American Foresters.
   Forester–a person who is, as a minimum, a graduate of a 4-year college or
university forestry curriculum accredited by the Society of American Foresters.
   Forest–shall have the same meaning as the term “woodlands.”
   Forestry–the management of forests and timberlands when practiced in
accordance with accepted silviculture principles, through developing,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for commercial
purposes, and which does not involve any land development.
   Fracture traces–linear topographic depressions or lines of depression less
than 1 mile in length revealing faults, joints, or fissures in the bedrock.
These linear features are characterized by increased permeability, along which
the solution of carbonate rocks is intensified and hence along which
groundwater movement is concentrated.
   Geothermal system–a system that uses a heat pump to extract heat from the
earth in heating mode and/or reject heat into the earth in cooling mode. It is
also called a geothermal heat pump system, a ground-coupled heat pump system,
an earth-source heat pump system, and a geo exchange system.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Ghost lakes–small bodies of water that occur in and occasionally around
closed depressions or sinkholes after periods of heavy precipitation. They may
form from slow permeability of soils, rises in the groundwater table, or from
the creation of a natural liner of impermeable or slowly permeable clays or
soils in the depression.
   Glare–excessive brightness in the field of view that is sufficiently greater
than the brightness to which the eyes are adapted, to cause annoyance (nuisance
glare) or loss in visual performance and visibility (disabling glare), so as to
jeopardize health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Ground source heat pump–a geothermal heat pump that uses the earth itself as
a heat source and heat sink. It is coupled to the ground by means of a closed-
loop heat exchanger installed horizontally or vertically underground.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Groundwater–water within the earth below the water table within the zone of
saturation. Groundwater includes both water under water table conditions and
confined within deep aquifers.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Group home–a dwelling unit operated by a responsible individual, family or
organization with a program to provide a supportive living arrangement for
individuals where the persons need special care due to age, emotional, mental,
developmental or physical disability. This definition shall expressly include
facilities for the supervised care of persons with disabilities subject to
protection under the Federal Fair Housing Act as amended. A group home
typically involves an individual residing on the premises for more than 30 days
at a time.
      A.   See standards in §
404.B(2) and provisions allowing modifications in §
1010.2.
   Group home land development–a lot that includes two or more group homes or
halfway houses and that is operated with central services and facilities.
   Grout–a high-solids fluid mixture of cement or bentonite and potable water
of a consistency that can be pumped through a tremie pipe and placed as
required. Various additives, such as sand or bentonite, may be included in the
mixture to meet certain requirements.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Halfway house–this term shall mean either of the following:
      A.   A use that otherwise meets the definition and requirements of a
group home, but that includes more than six residents.
      B.   A use that involves housing and support facilities for persons who
need such facilities because of their involvement in an abusive relationship.
   This term shall not include a “treatment center.”
   Habitable Space–A space in a building for living, eating, sleeping, or
cooking. Storage or utility spaces and similar areas are not considered
habitable spaces.
   Haul road–a road used to move forest products from the log landing to a
public roadway.
   Hazardous waste–solid waste that is especially harmful or potentially
harmful to public health as defined in the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
Act (Act 97). This shall include, but not be limited to, explosives, toxic
materials, and medical wastes. For the purposes of this Ordinance, hazardous
waste does not include small quantities of such waste available on a retail
basis to the homeowner (e.g., aerosol cans, fertilizers, herbicides, household
cleaners, paints, pesticides, etc.) for use in their home.
   Hearing–an administrative proceeding conducted by the Board of Supervisors,
the Zoning Hearing Board, or a hearing officer appointed by either of these
bodies pursuant to this Ordinance and the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code.
   Heat pump–a mechanical device used for heating and/or cooling which operates
by pumping heat from a cooler to a warmer location.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Historic feature–structures and sites having remarkable significance to
local, regional, State, or national cultural traditions, heritage or history.
   Home occupation–an activity for gain customarily carried on in a dwelling,
or in a building or structure accessory to a dwelling, clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. See additional
provisions in §
404.H, including provisions for “home occupations, light.”
   Hub height–the height of the center of the wind turbine or windmill rotor
above the ground surface. For a vertical axis wind turbine, the hub height is
the height of the equator plane.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   IESNA–Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   IGSHPA–the International Ground Source Heat Pump Association.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Illuminance–the luminous flux per unit area measured in lux (lumens per m2).
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Illumination–an alternative term for illuminance. Commonly used in
qualitative or general sense to designate the act of illuminating or the state
of being illuminated.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Impervious coverage–the percentage that results from dividing the land area
on a lot covered by all “impervious surfaces” by the net buildable site area,
or the total lot area where a net buildable site area is not established.
   Impervious surface–impervious surfaces are those surfaces which do not
absorb precipitation and surface water. All buildings, parking areas (not
designed as BMP to infiltrate stormwater), driveways, roads, sidewalks, and any
areas in concrete, asphalt, packed stone, compacted soils, or other equivalent
surfaces shall be considered impervious surfaces within this definition.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
   Impervious surface ratio–the impervious coverage of a lot measured as a
ratio of total impervious coverage to net buildable site area, or to total lot
area where a net buildable site area is not established.
   Independent Living–A use that may include basic services such as residential
maintenance, housekeeping, or meals, usually for a fee.
   Indirect light–direct light that has been reflected or has scattered off
other surfaces.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Initial illuminance–the luminous flux per unit area (light quantity) before
depreciation.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Industrial district–PI Zoning District.
   Initial illuminance–the luminous flux per unit area (light quantity) before
depreciation.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Lakes and ponds–natural or artificial bodies of water that retain water
year-round. A lake is a body of water, naturally occurring or manmade, covering
an area of 2 or more acres. A pond is a permanent body of water, naturally
occurring or manmade, covering an area up to 2 acres. The shoreline of such
water bodies shall be measured from the maximum condition rather than permanent
pool if there is any difference.
   Lake and pond riparian buffer–a type of riparian buffer protecting the area
surrounding the shoreline of a lake or pond.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Lake or pond margins–an area surrounding the shoreline of a lake or pond.
   Lamp–the component of a luminaire that produces light. A generic term for a
manmade source of light (e.g., light bulb).
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Landing–a place where logs are assembled for transportation in loads.
   Light–radiant energy that is capable of exciting the retina and producing a
visual sensation. The visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum extends
from about 380 to 770 nanometers.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Light trespass–light emitted by a luminaire beyond the boundaries of the
property on which it is located.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Lineaments–linear topographic depressions or lines of depression longer than
1 mile in length revealing faults or fissures in the bedrock. These linear
features are characterized by increased permeability, along which the solution
of carbonate rock is intensified and hence along which groundwater movement is
concentrated.
   Lopping–to cut tops and slash into small pieces to allow material to settle
close to the ground.
   Lot–a lot is a parcel of land, used or set aside and available for use as
the site of one or more buildings and any buildings accessory thereto, or for
any other purpose, in one ownership and not divided by a street, not including
any land within the ultimate right-of-way of a public or private street upon
which said lot abuts, even if the ownership to such right-of-way is the owner
of the lot. In the case where an existing deeded parcel of land is divided into
two or more tracts by public streets, for the purpose of this Ordinance, each
tract shall be considered a separate lot.
   Lot area–the area contained within the property lines of a lot shown on a
subdivision plan or required by this Ordinance, excluding any area within an
ultimate street right-of-way, provided that the area of any easements shall be
included in the lot area of developments of fewer than five lots.
   Corner lot–a lot that has an interior angle of less than 135 degrees at the
intersection of two street lines. A lot abutting upon a curved street or
streets shall be considered a corner lot if the tangent to the curve at the
points beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side
lot lines with the street lines intersect at an angle of less than 135 degrees.
   Through lot–an interior lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   Lot width–the distance measured between the side lot lines at the required
minimum building setback line. In a case where there is only one side lot line,
lot width shall be measured between such side lot line and the opposite rear
lot line or street line. The minimum lot width is the lot width required by
this Ordinance for the particular zoning district in which the lot is located.
   (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
   Flag lot/lane lot–a lot which does not have the required frontage on a
street but which gains access to a street by means of a strip of land
connecting the lot to the street.
   Lot lines–
   Lot lines–any boundary line of a lot.
   Lot line, front–the line separating the lot from the ultimate right-of-way;
provided that in the case of a corner lot the owner shall have the option of
choosing as the front lot line one of the two lot lines which separate the lot
from the ultimate right-of-way. The other lot line shall be a side lot line.
   Lot line, rear–any lot line that is parallel to or within 45 degrees of
being parallel to a street line, except for a lot line that is itself a street
line. In the case of a lot having no street frontage or a lot of an odd shape,
only the one lot line furthest from any street shall be considered a rear lot
line.
   Lot line, side–any lot line that is not a street line or a rear lot line.
   Lumen–a measure of the total “amount” of visible light emitted by a source.
For the purposes of this Ordinance, the lumen-output values shall be initial
lumen output ratings of a lamp, as specified by the manufacturer of the lamp. 1
lm = 1 cd sr. Traditionally, manufacturers of incandescent lamps have used
watts (power consumption) to indicate light output. Wattage-lumen equivalence
is approximately:
 
Incandescent Lamps (Watts) Minimum Light Output (Lumens)
40                         450
60                         800
75                         1,100
100                        1,600
150                        2,600
 
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Luminaire–a complete lighting unit consisting of one or more lamps together
with the fixture, other parts designed to control the light distribution and
other mechanical and electrical components.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Luminaire, cutoff–a luminaire whose light distribution at or above an angel
of 90 degrees above vertical (nadir) does not numerically exceed 25 candela per
1,000 lamp lumen (2.5 percent), and does not numerically exceed 100 candela per
1,000 lamp lumens (10 percent) at or above a vertical angle 80 degrees above
nadir. This applies to all lateral angels around the luminaire.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Luminaire, full cutoff–a luminaire whose light distribution at or above an
angle of 90 degrees above vertical (nadir) has zero candela intensity and does
not numerically exceed 100 candela per 1,000 lamp lumens (10 percent) at or
above a vertical angle 80 degrees above nadir. This applies to all lateral
angles around the luminaire.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Luminaire height–the vertical distance from the ground directly below the
centerline of the luminaire (nadir) to the lowest direct-light-emitting part of
the luminaire.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Luminance–a photometric measure of the luminous intensity per unit area of
light traveling in a given direction. It describes the amount of light that
passes through or is emitted from a particular area, and falls within a given
solid angle. The SI unit for luminance is candela per square meter (cd/m2).
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Manure management plan (MMP)–a management plan required for all farms and
AFOs in that land apply manure or agricultural process wastewater (generated on
the farm or received from an importer), but do not meet CAFO or CAO
definitions. A MMP must conform to the requirements of PA DEP publication 361-
0300-002, and is subject to examination/certification by PA DEP or the Bucks
County Conservation District staff.
   Margin–an area extending beyond the delineated wetland, stream, or lake and
pond shoreline.
   Mixes residential/medical/accessory use building–A building in a Continuing
Care Retirement Community (CCRC) that includes two or more uses not usually
found in the same occupancy classification. Possible examples include, but are
not limited to: individual and congregant living facilities (residential uses);
offices, a health center, ambulatory care, or rehabilitation services (medical
facilities); newsstand, snack bar, barber shop, beauty parlor, thrift shop, or
gift shop (commercial uses); athletic/exercise facilities, a community center,
or an assembly hall (recreational or social amenities).
   Mobile or manufactured home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended
for permanent occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two units designed to be
joined into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated
towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations and constructed so that
it may be used without a permanent foundation. For the purposes of this
Ordinance, travel trailers are not considered as mobile homes.
   Mobile or manufactured home lot–a parcel of land in a mobile home park,
improved with the necessary utility connections and other appurtenances
necessary for the erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   Mobile or manufactured home park–a parcel of land or contiguous parcels of
land which has been so designated and improved that it contains two or more
mobile home lots for the placement thereon of mobile homes.
   Modular or sectional home–a dwelling that is constructed off-site in
transportable sections and assembled on the site and which meets the Township
Construction Codes, as opposed to the HUD Code for manufactured homes.
   Monitoring wells–a well used to observe water levels and/or obtain samples
of groundwater.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Municipal waste–garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste and
other material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities, excluding hazardous
waste as defined by Pennsylvania Act 97.
   Net buildable site area–the base site area minus lands required for resource
protection set aside as defined in Article 5.
   Nonconforming use–A lawful use, whether of land or of structure, which does
not comply with the applicable use provisions for the zoning district in which
it is located, as defined by the Zoning Ordinance or amendments hereto or
hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior to the
application of such ordinance or amendment.
   Nonconforming structure–A lawful structure that does not comply with the
area, setback, yard, building height, location, size, impervious surface, or
other dimensional requirements of this Zoning Ordinance or amendments
heretofore or hereafter enacted where such structure complied with such
regulations at the time the structure was constructed or the lot created.
   Nonconforming lot–A lawful lot, the area or dimension of which was lawful
prior to the adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance, but which fails to
conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by
reasons of such adoption or amendment.
   Normal farming operations–the definition in the State Right to Farm Act, 3
P.S. §§ 951 - 957 shall apply.
   Nutrient management plan (NMP)–a plan formulated, in conjunction with the
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and local Conservation District,
to optimize economic returns from nutrients used in crop production, and to
minimize the negative impact of nutrients on the environment. CAFOs and CAOs in
Pennsylvania must have a NMP on file with the PA State Conservation Commission.
   Open-loop geothermal system–a type of geothermal heating and/or cooling
system that utilizes a water-supply well and water pump to deliver ground water
to a watersource heat pump. The discharge water from the water-source heat pump
may be returned to the subsurface through a recharge well or infiltration bed,
or may be discharged into a pond, lake, or stream. A spring may also be the
source of the ground water supply.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Open space or common open space or preserved open space–a parcel or parcels
of land within a tract which meets all of the following standards, in addition
to all other applicable requirements of this Ordinance:
      A.   Is designed, intended and suitable for active or passive recreation
by residents of a development or the general public, except where a provision
of this Ordinance may specifically allow the open space requirement to be met
with privately owned land protected by a conservation easement; or land to be
protected from development to preserve environmental resources (such as
agricultural soils, wetlands, woodlands and steep slopes).
      B.   Is covered by a system that ensures perpetual maintenance, if not
intended to be publicly owned.
      C.   Will be deeded to the Township and/or preserved by a deed
restriction or conservation easement to permanently prevent uses of land other
than “common or preserved open space” and noncommercial recreation.
      D.   Does not use any of the following areas to meet minimum common/
preserved open space requirements:
         (1)   Existing street rights-of-way.
         (2)   Vehicle streets or driveways providing access to other lots.
         (3)   Land beneath building(s) or land within 20 feet of a building
(other than accessory buildings and pools clearly intended for noncommercial
recreation and other than agricultural buildings and any pre-existing dwelling
which are permitted within a farmland lot).
         (4)   Off-street parking (other than that clearly intended for
noncommercial recreation).
         (5)   Area(s) needed to meet a requirement for an individual lot.
         (6)   For land intended to be open to the public, that does not have
provisions for entry with a 15-foot minimum width by pedestrians from a street
open to the public or from adjacent preserved open space that has access to
such a street.
         (7)   Land that includes a stormwater detention basin or community
sewage treatment facilities.
         (8)   Portions of land that have a width of less than 50 feet.
         (9)   Areas that are under water during normal weather conditions.
   See also §
512.3, which addresses utilities in open space.
   See also the definition in this Section for “recreation land” and “resource
protection land.”
   Open space ratio–the total amount of required open space divided by the base
site area.
   Operator–the individual, partnership, company, firm, association, or
corporation engaged in the harvest of timber including his agents, or
subcontractors, or employees.
   Outdoor lighting–the nighttime illumination of an outside area or object any
man-made device that produces light by any means regardless of whether the
actual source of the light is outside or within a structure.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Owner–the individual, partnership, company, firm, association, or
corporation that hold title to land.
   Passive recreational use–any leisure time activity not considered active
(e.g., walking, picnicking, bird watching, fishing and similar activities).
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
   PennDOT–the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   Permit–written permission, warrant, or license granted by a governmental
authority.
   Pesticide–any of a number of various commercially available substances or
mixtures of substances intended for preventing, destroying, or controlling any
pest including but not limited to insects, rodents, fungi, algae and weeds as
defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
   Pinnacles–tall, slender spires of carbonate bedrock. Pinnacles are formed
from the chemical dissolution of carbonate rocks along planes of weakness
(joints or fractures). Such pinnacles can be above the natural grade or below
the surface of the ground.
   Plume–areas of identified, delineated groundwater or soil contamination
associated with any property considered to be a threat to the environment or
human health, such as, but not limited to, a Superfund site.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Potable water–water suitable for human consumption.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Public hearing–the definition in the State Municipalities Planning Code
shall apply. (Note: a public hearing is held by the Board of Supervisors
regarding a proposed zoning ordinance amendment.)
   Public water system–a system which provides water to the public for human
consumption which has at least 15 service connections or regularly serves an
average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year. The
term is either a community or noncommunity system and includes collection,
treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under the control of the
operator of the system and used in connection with the system. The term also
includes a system which provides water for bottling or bulk hauling for human
consumption.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Quarry (or mineral extraction)–the removal from the surface or beneath the
surface of the land of bulk mineral resources using significant machinery. This
use also includes accessory stockpiling and processing of mineral resources.
“Quarry” includes, but is not limited to, the extraction of sand, gravel,
topsoil, limestone, sandstone, oil, coal, clay, shale and iron ore. The routine
movement of and replacement of topsoil during construction shall not by itself
be considered to be mineral extraction.
   Rated power output–the electrical power output of a wind turbine at a
constant hub height wind speed of 11m/s (25 mph).
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Recreation land–common open space that is designated for, available for and
suitable for recreational purposes, and which does not include or utilize any
areas of greater than 15 percent slopes, any wetlands or any 100-year
floodplains in order to count towards the minimum amount of recreational land.
   Recreational vehicle–a recreational vehicle is a portable structure, self-
propelled or towable by a passenger car, of such size and weight as not to
require special highway movement permits, primarily designed or constructed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use or to
carry such equipment, not for profit. Snowmobiles, motorcycles, or other
vehicles that do not provide living quarters shall not be considered
recreational vehicles.
   Recyclable materials–those materials which may be processed or re-fabricated
for re-use and which are specified by the Township for separation from the
regular solid waste. Such material may include, but not be limited to, aluminum
products, cardboard, ferrous containers, bi-metal containers, glass containers,
newspaper, magazines, periodicals, other paper products of various kinds,
plastic containers, and yard wastes.
   Recycling–the collection, separation, recovery and sale or reuse of metals,
glass, paper, plastics and other materials which would otherwise be disposed or
processed as municipal waste, as defined in this Ordinance.
   Related or relative–persons who are related by blood, marriage, adoption or
formal foster relationship to result in one of the following relationships:
spouse, brother, sister, parent, child, grandparent, great-grandparent,
grandchild, great-grandchild, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, sister-in-law,
brother-in-law, parent-in-law or first cousin. This term specifically shall not
include relationships such as second, third or more distant cousins. See
definition of “dwelling unit.”
   Report–any letter, review, memorandum, compilation or similar writing made
by any body, board, officer or consultant other than a solicitor to any body,
board, officer or consultant for the purpose of assisting the recipient of such
report in the rendering of any decision or determination. All reports shall be
deemed recommendatory and advisory only and shall not be binding upon the
recipient, board, officer, body or agency, nor shall any appeal lie therefrom.
Any report used, received, or considered by the body, board, officer or agency
rendering a determination or decision shall be made available for inspection to
the applicant and all other parties to any proceeding upon request, and copies
thereof shall be provided at cost of reproduction.
   Residential district(s)–the RR, RP, DD and VR Zoning Districts.
   Residual waste–any garbage, refuse, other discarded material or other waste
including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous materials resulting
from industrial, mining and agricultural operations and any sludge from an
industrial, mining or agricultural water supply treatment facility, waste water
treatment facility, or air pollution control facility, provided that it is not
hazardous.
   Resource protection land–land which is categorized as resource protection
land under Article 5 and which is intended to primarily preserve natural
features and sensitive land areas, including, but not limited to, wetlands,
floodplains, stream valleys, prime agricultural land, steep slopes, and
woodlands.
   Respite Care–Service to temporarily relieve caregivers of custodial duties
for elderly or disabled individuals. Respite care may be regularly or
irregularly scheduled or invoked in emergencies. Services may be provided
within the home of the individual for whom care is provided, or in a
residential care facility.
   Return well–a well designed and constructed for the return of water to the
ground.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Right-of-way–a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, alley, crosswalk, sanitary or storm sewer, stream, drainage ditch, or
for another public or special use. The usage of the term “right-of-way” for
land plotting purposes in the Township shall mean that every right-of-way
hereafter established or shown on a final record plan is to be separate and
distinct from lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way, and not included
within the dimensions of such lots or parcels.
   Right-of-way, future or ultimate–the right-of-way width required for the
expansion of existing streets to accommodate anticipated future traffic loads;
or a right-of-way established to provide future access to or through
undeveloped land.
   Riparian buffer–see “watercourse riparian buffer,” “lake and pond riparian
buffer” or “wetland riparian buffer.”
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Roomer, boarder, or lodger–a person occupying any room or group of rooms
forming a single, habitable unit used or intended to be used for a living and
sleeping, but not for cooking or eating purposes, and paying compensation for
lodging or board and lodging by prearrangement for a week or more at a time to
an owner or operator, not including family members. Any person occupying such
room or rooms and paying such compensation without prearrangement or for less
than a week at a time shall be classified for purposes of this Ordinance not as
a roomer, boarder, or lodger but as a guest of a commercial lodging
establishment (motel, hotel).
   Sensitive land areas–these include at least the following: floodplains,
springs, wetlands, steep slopes, woodland edges, erodible soils, soils of low
permeability, areas of significant wildlife and aquatic habitat, critical
features pertaining to carbonate bedrock areas, and areas of developmental
hazard including dumps, oil and gas pipelines, and automobile salvage yards and
gas stations.
   Sewage facilities–a system of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and
disposal that will prevent the discharge of untreated or inadequately treated
sewage or other waste into waters of the Commonwealth or otherwise provide for
the safe and sanitary treatment and disposal of sewage or other waste.
   Community sewage system–a sewage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, for the collection of sewage from two or more lots, or two or more
equivalent dwelling units and the treatment or disposal, or both, of the sewage
on one or more of the lots or at another site, and which does not meet the
definition of a community on-lot sewage system.
   Community on-lot sewage system–a system of piping, tanks or other facilities
serving two or more lots and collecting, treating and disposing of domestic
sewage into a soil absorption area or retaining tank located on one or more of
the lots.
   Central sewage service–service by a community sewage system or a community
on-lot sewage system.
   Public sewage service–service by a community sewage system that is owned or
operated by a municipality or municipal authority.
   Individual sewage system – a system of piping, tanks or other facilities
serving a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part
into the soil or into waters of the Commonwealth or by means of conveyance to
another site for final disposal. The term includes:
   Individual on-lot sewage system–an individual sewage system which uses a
system of piping, tanks or other facilities for collecting, treating and
disposing of sewage into a soil absorption area or spray field or by retention
in a retaining tank, all facilities located on-lot.
   Individual sewerage system–a system that uses a method of sewage collection,
conveyance, treatment and disposal other than renovation in a soil absorption
area, or retention in a retaining tank.
   On-lot sewage service–service of a lot by an individual sewage system. Any
percolation tests required for the installation of a private sewer system shall
be conducted by the Bucks County Department of Health and pursuant to the
regulations of that agency and the requirements of the Township Subdivision and
Land Development Ordinance.
   Shrub–a perennial woody plant different from a tree by its low growth and
multiple stems.
   SI–Systeme Internationale d’Unites.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Sign–any name, name plate, poster, panel, display illustration, structure or
device used for visual communication, which is affixed, painted, or represented
directly or indirectly upon a building or other outdoor surface for the purpose
of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public or advertising a
business, commodity, service or product or for identifying a business,
structure, or use of land.
   Significant aquatic habitat–a habitat supporting a balanced indigenous
aquatic community; an area where a group of populations occupying a common area
and consisting of desirable species of fish and shellfish, including the biota
of other trophic levels, which are necessary as part of the food chain or
otherwise ecologically important to the maintenance of these populations. All
watercourses and wetlands within the Cooks Creek Watershed shall be considered
significant aquatic habitat.
   Significant wildlife habitat–natural areas providing food and/or shelter
opportunities for diverse terrestrial communities of desirable composition and
density.
   Sinkholes–funnel-shaped or steep sided depressions in the land surface that
are caused by the dissolution and collapse or subsidence of the roofs of
subterranean caverns in carbonate geologic formations, or loss of soil
overlying solution channels in carbonate formations.
   Site–the site shall be defined as a parcel or parcels of land intended to
have one or more buildings or intended to be subdivided into one or more lots
or developed by a land development within the boundaries of the Township.
   Site area–all land area within the site as defined in the deed and as
measured by an actual site survey.
   Site area; net buildable–certain land areas as measured under Article 5.
   Skid road–main route for skidding logs from woods to the landing.
   Skid trail–a temporary trail used for skidding logs from the site of felling
to the main skid road.
   Skidding–dragging trees on the ground, by any means, from the stump to the
landing.
   Skilled Nursing Care–High level medical care provided by trained
individuals, such as registered nurses (RNs) and physical, speech, and
occupational therapists. Services can be necessary over the short term for
rehabilitation from an illness or injury, or required over the long term for
patients who need care on a frequent or around-the-clock basis due to a chronic
medical condition. Examples of skilled nursing services include wound care,
intravenous (IV) therapy, injections, physical therapy, and monitoring of vital
signs and medical equipment.
   Slash–debris left after logging, including logs, chunks, bark, branches,
stumps, and broken understory trees or brush.
   Snags–a standing dead tree without branches or the standing portion of a
broken off tree. Snags may provide feeding and/or nesting sites for wildlife.
   Solar photovoltaic (PV) generator–a generator that uses solar panels arrayed
to produce electricity utilizing the photovoltaic effect.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Solar thermal (ST) generator–a generator that uses solar energy collectors
to heat water or some other thermal transport fluid. Low temperature collectors
are generally used to heat swimming pools. Medium temperature collectors heat
water or air for space heating or domestic (potable) hot water. High
temperature collectors utilize mirrors (heliostats) or lenses to concentrate
sunlight for electrical power production.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Solid waste–waste, including, but not limited to, municipal, residual, or
hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
materials.
   Solid waste facilities–solid waste facilities shall mean one or more of the
following as permitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection:
   Composting plant–a facility at which composting is done. Composting shall
mean the process by which organic solid waste is biologically decomposed under
controlled anaerobic or aerobic conditions to yield a humus-like product.
Compostable material shall mean organic waste that is capable of undergoing
composting. Composting activities associated with normal farming operations
shall not be included in this definition of composting plant.
   Landfill or municipal landfill or sanitary landfill–a facility for disposing
of solid waste on land without creating nuisances or hazards to the public
health or safety.
   Recycling center–a facility established to receive, process, store, handle,
and ship recyclable materials.
   Resource recovery facility–a plant, establishment, set of equipment or other
operation that recovers useful materials and/or products, including heat,
electricity, and/or recyclable materials from otherwise waste materials. A
resource recovery facility shall not include a landfill.
   Transfer station–a facility which receives and temporarily stores solid
waste at a location other than the generation site, and which facilities the
bulk transfer of accumulated solid waste to a facility for further processing
or disposal.
   Waste-to-energy plant–a facility used for the incineration of solid waste
and the production of steam and electricity or other useful forms of energy.
   Solution channels–solution-widened joints or fractures occurring in
carbonate bedrock. They can vary from 1 inch to several feet in width and can
be part of a network of channels through carbonate rocks.
   Specified anatomical areas–one or more of the following:
      A.   Uncovered human male or female genitals.
      B.   Human female breasts that are uncovered in the area of the areolas.
   Specified sexual activities–one or more of the following:
      A.   Human male genitals in a visible state of sexual stimulation.
      B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral sex or sodomy.
      C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of uncovered human genitals.
   See the definition of “adult entertainment” in Use E-1 in §
404.E(1).
   Springs and seeps–the point where ground water discharges to become surface
water.
   Stand–a grouping of trees of sufficiently uniform species composition, age,
and condition to be distinguished from surrounding stands and managed as a
single unit.
   Stand prescription–the type of forest management treatment if any, to be
applied to a particular stand to achieve the stated management objectives. The
stand prescription should include, but not be limited to, detailed instructions
on how that treatment is to be carried out on the ground, the desired residual
stand, and details on any other treatments to be applied.
   Stand regeneration treatment–a selection, shelterwood, seed tree, or clear-
cut that is designed to replace existing stand with a new stand of young trees.
   Standing-column geothermal well–a type of open-loop geothermal heating and/
or cooling system that circulates ground water from a water well through a heat
exchanger and returns the discharge water from the water-source heat pump to
the same water well that it was pumped from. The water withdrawal and return
locations within the water well bore are separated as far as is possible. Some
standing-column geothermal systems discharge some of the circulating ground
water to enhance their heat transfer.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   State–the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and its governmental agencies.
   Steep slopes–areas where the average slope is 15 percent or greater that,
because of this slope, are subject to high rates of storm-water run-off,
erosion, and/or pollution.
   Steradian, (sr)–the solid angle subtended at the center of a sphere by an
area on the surface of the sphere equal to the square of the sphere radius.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014)
   Stormwater management basin–structures designed for the temporary storage of
stormwater. Stormwater management basins include detention and retention
basins. Stormwater collection and conveyance systems are not included within
this definition.
   Story–that part of a building located between a floor and the floor or roof
next above. The first story of a building is the lowest story having 75 percent
or more of its wall area above grade level. A half- story is a story under a
gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on at last two opposite
exterior walls are not more than 2 feet above the floor.
   Story, ground–that story with its floor level immediately above the average
finished grade level of the adjoining ground at any particular point or side of
the dwelling.
   Stratum–a single sedimentary bed or layer of a formation that consists of
approximately the same kind of rock material.
   Stream–rivers, creeks, springs, and other perennial or intermittent
watercourses containing water at least on a seasonal basis during an average
water year. The term “stream” shall include all “intermittent streams” and all
“perennial streams.”
   Springs or seeps–see definition in this Section.
   Stream, ephemeral–a reach of a naturally occurring stream that flows only
during and for short periods following precipitation, and flows in low areas
that may or may not have a well-defined channel. Ephemeral streams protected by
this Ordinance are those that connect to a perennial or intermittent stream, or
other natural waterbody such as a pond, lake or wetland. Ephemeral stream beds
are located above the water table year-round. Groundwater is not a source of
water for the stream. Ephemeral streams typically have little or no aquatic
community.
   Stream, headwater–the beginning reach of a stream that collects water from
springs and seeps and provides a hydrological connection to a perennial stream.
These channels may be ill defined and may move from year to year depending upon
groundwater input, snowmelt and runoff, but are typified by hydric soils and
hydric vegetation. For the purposes of this Ordinance, headwater streams and
the springs and seeps that feed them receive the same protection as
intermittent streams.
   Stream, intermittent–a reach of stream that flows only during wet periods of
the year and flows in a continuous well-defined channel. During dry periods,
especially in summer months, intermittent streams may only have a trickle of
visible flow, but there is subsurface flow. This condition is usually caused by
seasonal changes in groundwater table or periods of drought. The aquatic
community has low diversity, and/or a dominance of forms with relatively short
aquatic life stages, and/or absence of predators or multiple life stages.
   Stream, perennial or watercourse, perennial–a body of water in a channel
that flows throughout a majority of the typical water year in a defined channel
and is capable, in the absence of pollution, drought or man-made stream
disturbances, of supporting a benthic macroinvertebrate community with
relatively long aquatic life stages and/or the presence of multiple life
stages, and/or the presence of rooted aquatic plants.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Street or road–a public or private way used or intended to be used for
passage or travel by motor vehicles, which provides the principal means of
access to two or more abutting lots or has been officially dedicated as a
public street by action of the Board of Supervisors which has not been vacated
or abandoned.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Street line–the dividing line between the street and the lot. The street
line shall be the future/ultimate right-of-way line.
   Strike of bedrock–the direction or bearing of a surface or subsurface
stratum of the inclined bedrock in relation to the horizontal surface. The
strike is perpendicular to the dip or slope of the stratum.
   Structure–a combination of materials assembled, constructed or erected at a
fixed location, the use of which requires location on the ground or attachment
to something having location on the ground.
   Swept area–the projected area perpendicular to the wind direction that a
wind turbine or windmill rotor will describe during one complete rotation.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Test well–a well constructed for the purpose of obtaining information on
groundwater or hydrogeologic conditions, including yield and quality.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Tops–the upper portion of a felled tree not merchantable because of small
size, taper, or defect.
   Tower–a structure that is intended to support equipment used to transmit
and/or receive telecommunications signals. Examples of such structures include
monopoles and lattice construction steel structures.
   Townhouse–one dwelling unit that is attached to two or more dwelling units,
and with each dwelling unit being completely separated from and attached to
each other by unpierced vertical fire resistant walls. Each dwelling unit shall
have its own outside access. Side yards shall be adjacent to each end unit.
   Treatment center–a facility involving overnight housing of any of the
following: (A) persons undergoing criminal rehabilitation (such as a criminal
halfway house), and which is not a prison, or (B) persons undergoing treatment
for a current addiction to a controlled substance that was used in an illegal
manner or alcohol, or (C) persons with a type of mental illness or other
behavior that causes the person to be known to be a threat to the physical
safety of others.
   Tremie pipe–a rigid or flexible pipe or a hose that carries the grouting
materials to the bottom of the zone being grouted. The tremie pipe is withdrawn
as the grout material fills the annular space outside the casing or fills the
space between the loop pipes and the borehole wall. The end of the tremie pipe
is kept submerged just below the surface of the grout material.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Trench–an excavation or depression in the ground that is generally deeper
than it is wide, and narrow compared with its length (as opposed to a simple
hole or pit).
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Trip–The event of a vehicle entering or leaving a location. Each time a
vehicle enters or leaves a location is a separate trip.
   Twin dwelling unit–one dwelling unit accommodating one-family that is
attached to and completely separated by a vertical listed fire-rated assembly
(fire resistant wall) to only one additional dwelling unit. One side yard shall
be adjacent to each dwelling unit. Each unit may or may not be on a separate
lot from the attached dwelling unit.
   Uneven-age management–management of a forest stand to maintain or create and
regenerate a forest that has three or more distinctly different age classes
including regeneration.
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
   Use–any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on, or intended
to be carried on.
      Use, accessory–a use located on the same lot with a principal use, and
clearly incidental and subordinate to, the principal use.
      Use, principal–the main use on a lot.
   Utilities–those services customarily rendered by public utility
corporations, municipalities, or municipal authorities, in the nature of
electricity, gas, telephone, water and sewage, including the appurtenances used
in connection with the supplying of such services such as buildings, wires,
pipes, poles and the like.
   Vertical closed-loop borehole–a borehole which is constructed to receive
heat exchanger loop pipes and grout material. Fill material may be used below a
minimum depth of 20 feet below grade as the subsurface conditions warrant.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Water source heat pump–a heat pump that uses a water-to-refrigerant heat
exchanger to extract heat from the heat source.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Water supply well–any well that is constructed to remove or return water to
the ground.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Water table–that surface in an unconfined groundwater body at which the
pressure is atmospheric. It is defined by the levels at which water stands in
wells that penetrate the water body just far enough to hold standing water.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Watercourse–this term shall have the same meaning as a “stream.”
   Watercourse riparian buffer–an area of land along a stream, river, creek or
other body of moving water regulated to protect the waterbody from impacts to
water quality, quantity or wildlife habitat caused by human activity and to
provide services related to stormwater control and to lessen impacts from
flooding. Included in the watercourse riparian buffer are:
   No disturbance zone–an area of land measured 40 feet from the bank of a
perennial or intermittent stream that is protected from development or other
disturbances which may impact the ability of the stream to provide services of
habitat, water quality protection, infiltration and stormwater absorption.
   Minimal disturbance zone–an area of land measured 60 feet from the end of a
no disturbance zone on a perennial or intermittent stream, or measured 10 feet
from the centerline of an ephemeral stream, that is protected from development
or other disturbances which may impact the ability of the stream to provide
services of habitat, water quality protection, infiltration and stormwater
absorption.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Watershed–an area of land defined as the surface which drains to a given
body of water or reach of stream. Major watersheds in Springfield are the Cooks
Creek, Tohickon, and Gallows Run Watersheds.
   The following definitions are for special protection watersheds as defined
in Title 25, Chapter 93 of the Pennsylvania Code of Regulation.
      Exceptional value (EV) watershed–a watershed specifically afforded by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection with the highest level of
water quality protection. The Cooks Creek watershed is an exceptional value
watershed.
      High quality (HQ) watershed–a watershed which has excellent quality
waters and environmental or other features that require special water quality
protection. The Unami is a high quality watershed.
   The following definitions can be for specific waterbodies or portions of
watersheds, or for entire watersheds as defined in Title 25, Chapter 93. In
some cases both designations are used, such as HQ-CWF or HQ-WWF.
      Cold water fishery (CWF)–a water body that supports trout and other cold
water fish species and associated flora and fauna. All of the streams in the
Gallows Run Watershed are considered CWF waterbodies.
      Trout stocking fishery (TSF)–a water body that supports stocked trout
from February 15 to July 31, but otherwise supports flora and fauna associated
with a warm water habitat. All of the streams in the Tohickon Creek Watershed
in Springfield Township are considered TSF waterbodies.
      Warm water fishery (WWF)–a water body that supports fish species and
flora and fauna associated with warm water habitat. The Delaware River in Bucks
County is a WWF waterbody.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Water supply–
      On-lot water service–service by a private individual water supply and
distribution system.
      Private centralized water supply and distribution system–any privately
owned system for supplying and distributing water from a common source(s) to
two or more lots.
      Private individual water supply and distribution system–a system for
supplying and distributing water to a single lot.
      Public water supply and distribution system–any water supply and
distribution system that is owned and/or managed by the Township and/or the
municipal authority.
   Well–any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is
for the location, acquisition, monitoring, or artificial recharge of
groundwater. This includes, but is not limited to, test wells, test borings,
and monitoring wells, in addition to wells to be utilized as individual or
semipublic water supplies.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Well driller–an individual or company that is permitted or licensed by the
State of Pennsylvania to drill wells in Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Well seal–an approved device or method used to protect a well casing or
water system from the entrance of any external pollutant at the point of
entrance into the casing of a pipe, electric conduit, or water level measuring
device.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
   Wetlands–wetlands shall mean areas that are defined as wetlands under
Federal or State regulations, whichever are more restrictive.
   Wetland riparian buffer–an area of land surrounding a wetland, designed to
protect the wetland from impacts to water quality, quantity or wildlife habitat
caused by human activity. Wetland riparian buffers contain a minimal
disturbance zone as defined under watercourse riparian buffer.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   Wildlife habitat–the native environment of an animal ideally providing all
elements for life and growth: food, water, cover and space.
   Windmill–a structure, with associated equipment, that transforms wind energy
directly into mechanical energy.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Wind obstruction–anything that interferes with the laminar (straight,
smooth, non-turbulent) flow of wind, causing a level of turbulence that could
interfere with the proper function and/or productivity of a wind turbine.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Wind turbine–a structure, with associated equipment, that transforms wind
energy directly into electrical energy.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   Woodlands or forest–areas, groves, or stands of mature or largely mature
trees (i.e., greater than 6 inches caliper, except for dogwoods which shall be
considered mature when the caliper is 2 inches or more) covering an area
greater than ¼ acre; or groves of mature trees (greater than 10 inches caliper)
consisting of more than 10 trees; or any lot which has more than one viable
tree of a caliper of 6 inches or greater per 1,500 square feet of lot area, and
the associated intermediate layers in these areas including the understory
shrubs and smaller trees, the ground layer of herbaceous plants, and the forest
floor. Forest or woodlands are intended to encompass the entire woodland
ecology and its importance in providing significant wildlife habitat,
moderating climatic extremes, enhancement of scenic values, decreasing and run-
off, stabilizing soils, and acting as a buffer.
   Yard–the area(s) of a lot that must remain free of buildings or other
structures except as otherwise permitted in this Ordinance, and which may be
used as lawn or planted area or parking or driveway space, in compliance with
this Ordinance. A “yard” is measured at right angles from ultimate right-of-
way line or lot line to the nearest building wall.
   Yard, front–a yard that extends across the full width of a lot, for a depth
equal to the minimum front yard setback distance required by this Ordinance,
measured from the future/ultimate right-of-way of public streets. In the case
of a lot fronting on a private roadway, the front yard shall be measured from
the easement/right-of-way line of the private roadway.
   Yard, rear–a yard which extends across the full width of a lot, for a depth
equal to the minimum rear yard setback distance required by this Ordinance,
measured from the rear lot line.
   Yard, side–a yard which extends along a side lot line from the required
front yard to the required rear yard, the minimum width of which shall be as
required by this Ordinance, measured from the side lot line.
   Zone of saturation–the zone below the water table in which all interstices
are filled with ground water.
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 201; Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007, § 01; Ord. 149,
passed 4-29-2008, Arts. I, II; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 01; Ord. 170,
passed 6-24-2014, Art. I; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 01; Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014, § 01; Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015, Arts. I, II; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-
2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
Article 3
Establishment of Districts
§ 301 Establishment of Districts.
   The Township is hereby divided into districts of different types, each type
being of such number, shape, kind and area, and of such common unity of purpose
and adaptability of use, that are deemed most suitable to carry out the
objectives of this Ordinance and the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 300)
§ 302 Names of Districts.
   1.   For the purpose of this Ordinance, Springfield Township is hereby
divided into districts, which should be designated as follows:
WS Watershed District
AD Agriculture District
RP Resource Protection District
RR Rural Residential District
DD Development District
VC Village Commercial District
VR Village Residential District
HC Highway Commercial District
PI Planned Industrial District
 
   2.   The following overlay zoning districts are also established, as
provided in this Ordinance:
 
SD  Scenic Overlay District
SW  Source Water Protection Overlay District
WP  Wellhead Protection Overlay District
HR  Historic Resources Overlay District, which shall include the buildings on
    the historic resources list
CCW Cook’s Creek Watershed Overlay District
 
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 301; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 303 Zoning Map.
   Districts are bounded and defined as shown in the map entitled “Zoning Map
of Springfield Township” which accompanies and which, with all explanatory
matters thereon, is hereby made a part of this Ordinance as
Appendix C.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 302)
§ 304 Interpretation of District Boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the district as
indicated on the Zoning Map (
Appendix C), the following rules shall apply:
      A.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately coinciding
with the centerlines of streets, highways, railroad line, or streams, such
center lines shall be constructed to be such boundaries.
      B.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said
boundaries; or where district boundaries are extensions of lot lines or connect
the intersections of lot lines, such lines shall be said district boundaries.
      C.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to centerlines of streets or highways, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the Zoning Map (
Appendix C).
      D.   If land within the Township has been determined to be without a
zoning classification for any reason, that land shall be developed only in
accordance with the standards and requirements of the AD District.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 303)
§ 305 Purposes of Districts.
   The following zoning districts are intended to serve the following purposes,
in addition to the objectives of the comprehensive plan:
      A.   Agriculture District (AD). To recognize and protect significant
agricultural areas consistent with the latest version of the Bucks County
Natural Resources Plan and the areas where farming predominates. This District
recognizes that farmland must be considered to be developed land that is being
used to produce a product. It is not a holding zone, but is an area having a
positive purpose in utilizing the prime agricultural soils for the benefit of
the entire community. This District protects agricultural areas from
interference by incompatible uses. Agricultural activities within this District
may generate noise, odors, and other disturbances that are considered part of
normal farming operations. Residents of the AD District are advised that there
may be noise, odors, dust, fumes or other disturbances associated with
agricultural practices which are considered to be acceptable effects of farming
and shall not be regulated by Township nuisance laws. Residential development
is to be placed on large lots or clusters where they can be setback from farms.
This District is also intended to protect key areas that greatly affect the
water quality of the water supply of many Township residents and businesses. To
carry out the Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan.
   The various minimum and maximum lot size requirements imposed upon
residential uses in this District are designed to avoid intensive residential
development in the AD District while simultaneously preserving and protecting
existing farmland and agricultural soils. It is the Township’s finding that
intense residential development adjacent to farming operations results in
severe, detrimental impacts on agriculture and agricultural operations due to
recognized conflicts between new residents in a farming area and existing
farming operations. These residential/agricultural conflicts consist of
increased trash in farm fields, increased traffic on country roads which impede
the movement of farming equipment in an agricultural area, increased complaints
and land use conflicts between new residents and existing agricultural
operations with respect to noise, odors, dust and fumes, and increased pressure
to extend public water and public sewer infrastructure into existing rural and
agricultural communities thereby resulting in rapid loss of farmland. An
additional potential conflict is with recreational vehicles trespassing on to
farmland and damaging crops. The density requirements and minimum lot size in
the AD District are also intended to provide sufficient area for on-lot water
and on-lot sewer facilities and to provide a sufficient buffer area on the
individual lots from farming operation disturbances. Limited use of community
sewer and community water facilities is permitted on smaller lots where such
lot sizes and facilities would enhance the preservation of productive
agricultural soils.
   (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
      B.   Watershed District (WS). To protect key portions of the Cooks Creek
Watershed that greatly affect the water quality of the water supply of many
Township residents and businesses. This predominately steeply sloped, heavily
wooded area is intended for low intensity development compatible with the
protection of fragile natural features occurring there and of the groundwater
supply. Central sewage service shall not be newly extended or newly allowed in
this Zoning District. To carry out the Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      C.   Resource Protection District (RP). To protect areas consisting
largely of natural features such as mature forest, steep slopes, scenic areas,
wetlands, streams, floodplains and ponds including those identified in the
latest version of the Bucks County Natural Resources Plan. Intensities are such
as to insure that these resources are preserved, while providing for
residential development with suitable sewage disposal. To carry out the Cooks
Creek Watershed Conservation Plan.
      D.   Rural Residential District (RR). To preserve the rural character of
the Township and to prevent haphazard, scattered development characterized by
sprawl. To provide a place for limited residential growth and minimize health
risks from on-site sewage failure. Residential uses are permitted on large lots
or where they are clustered with large areas of open space and provisions for
off-site sewage disposal. This residential development will relate to the
natural physical characteristics such as waterways, woodlands, topography and
soils so as to protect and preserve these natural features and the open
character of the countryside. To protect key areas that greatly affect the
water quality of the water supply of many Township residents and businesses.
      E.   Development District (DD). To accommodate the bulk of the
anticipated residential growth of the Township. To recognize areas where it is
possible to provide public sewers and a variety of uses, including higher
density housing types. To control and regulate development so as to coordinate
the Township’s growth with the provisions of public services.
      F.   Village Commercial District (VC). To accommodate retail sales,
services, and institutional uses that are considered necessary to serve the
surrounding neighborhood. To allow types of uses that will be compatible with
nearby homes and the historic character of the Village Residential District
(VR)–to accommodate a variety of residential uses, recognizing existing areas
of development of greater intensity in the Township. The zoning standards are
designed to maintain and enhance the village character.
      G.   Village Residential District (VR). To provide zoning standards which
are responsive to the existing conditions within the village while maintaining
the village character. A limited number of nonresidential uses are permitted,
but this District is intended to be primarily residential in character. This
District is established and specifically structured around the original
residential uses within the village.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      H.   Planned Industrial District (PI). To encourage industrial and
selected commercial uses in an appropriate area. Such development shall be
planned as a whole with coordinated street access. The intent is to encourage
high quality industrial and commercial development that enhances the employment
opportunities in the Township and is designed with adequate road access and
public utilities to minimize adverse impacts on the natural systems and
residential uses in the surrounding area.
      I.   Highway Commercial District (HC). To provide for a variety of
commercial uses along the Route 309 corridor, to be served by adequate service
roads and traffic controls.
      J.   Scenic District Overlay (SD). To protect the unique visual character
of the Township by setting standards for the visual impact of development on
views from scenic roads. The District does not affect the overall permitted
density within the underlying district but it does require that proposed
development go through special site plan review procedures as defined herein
that are designed to minimize adverse visual impacts on the scenic character of
the Township.
      K.   Historic Resources Overlay District (HR). To implement the mandatory
requirements of the State Municipalities Planning Code by which zoning is used
to preserve historic buildings.
      L.   Source Water Protection (SW) and Wellhead Protection (WP) Overlay
Districts. To minimize threats to the quality of groundwater and surface water,
particularly those water features that affect public water supply wells and
concentrations of private wells and to assist in oversight to ensure compliance
with Federal and State environmental protection regulations that could affect
water quality.
      M.   Cooks Creek Watershed Overlay District (CCW). Reserved for future
use.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 304; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, § 02; Ord. 156,
passed 4-27-2010, §§ 02, 03; Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015, Art. III)
Article 4
Use Regulations
§ 401 Applicability of Regulations.
   Except as provided by law or this Ordinance, a building, structure or land
shall only be used or occupied for the purposes allowed in the applicable
zoning district, as provided in Article 4.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 400)
§ 402 Uses Subject to Other Regulations; Uses per Lot.
   1.   All uses permitted by right, special exception or conditional approval
shall be subject, in addition to use regulations, to such regulations of yard,
lot size, lot width, building area and height, impervious surfaces, easements,
buffer yards, off-street parking, and such other provisions as are specified in
other Articles herein.
   2.   Utilities. No zoning permit shall be issued until approval is obtained
from the Sewage Enforcement Officer for sewage disposal, unless the premises
are served by Township-approved central sewer service. See also requirements of
the Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance concerning water
supplies.
   3.   Uses and Buildings Per Lot. In a residential district, no more than one
principal use shall be permitted on a lot, except that: (A) essential services
and commercial communications antennas/towers (where such facilities are
allowed by this Ordinance) may be located on lots containing other principal
uses, and (B) an “A-“ (agricultural category) use can be combined with another
use. In other districts, more than one type of principal use and more than one
building may be allowed on a lot, provided that all of the requirements are met
for each use and each building.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 401)
§ 403 Uses Not Specifically Addressed.
   If a use clearly is not permitted by right, as a conditional use, or as a
special exception use by this Ordinance within any zoning district, the use is
prohibited; provided, however, that the Board of Supervisors may permit such
use as a conditional use within the VC, Village Commercial, HC, Highway
Commercial or PI, Planned Industrial Zoning District subject to specific proof
by the applicant to the clear satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors that all
of the following conditions are met:
      A.   The proposed use would be no more intensive with respect to external
impacts and nuisances and environmental impacts than uses that are permitted in
the District.
      B.   The proposed use would be closely similar in impacts and character
to uses permitted in that district, considering the same standards that would
otherwise apply for a change from nonconforming use to another nonconforming
use under Article 11.
      C.   The use would meet the standards that would apply to a conditional
use in Article 8.
      D.   The use is not specifically prohibited in that district.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 402; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 04)
§ 404 Additional Regulations for Specific Uses.
   The following additional requirements shall apply for each of the following
uses. Where two or more provisions apply to the same matter or use, the more
restrictive provision shall apply. See the buffer yard requirements of §
503, which requires a landscaped area between certain uses.
      A.   Agricultural Uses.
         (1)   A-1 General Agriculture. Agriculture shall include uses such as
horticulture; tilling of soil; raising of livestock or poultry that is not a
Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO) or Concentrated Animal Operation
(CAO); growing nursery trees, shrubs, fruits, grains, flowers, Christmas trees
or vegetables; raising of insects; one single-family detached dwelling on the
same lot as an allowed agricultural use unless otherwise stated; and customary
farm buildings, provided:
            (a)   One single-family detached dwelling shall be allowed on each
farm. The Township may require that the applicant prove compliance with any
conservation easement that pertains to the property.
            (b)   Buildings and structures used for the keeping of animals
shall not be located closer than 50 feet to the lot line of a lot that is not
in common ownership. Manure shall be stored and spread in a manner that
conforms to Pennsylvania State regulations. Fences shall not be installed
within the legal right-of-way of a public road.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (c)   The keeping of livestock or poultry shall be limited to lots
of 5 or more acres and shall be limited to a density of 0.5 animal equivalent
units per acre, unless an approved Natural Resource Conversation Service (NRCS)
Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) or certified Nutrient Management Plan (NMP)
allows greater density. Riding academies/boarding stables and kennels shall not
be considered part of Use A-1, and instead shall meet the respective
requirements for such uses (see Sections
404.A.(8) and
404.A.(6), respectively).
            (d)   A landscape contracting business that involves storage of
vehicles and non-plant materials for off-site use shall not be allowed as an
agricultural use.
            (e)   Minimum parking–no less than two off-street parking spaces
per dwelling unit and one space per on-site employee shall be provided.
            (f)   If tractors and similar farm machinery are stored outdoors
for more than 20 days, they shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from the lot
line of a principally residential lot.
            (g)   Beekeeping operations shall post warning signs between the
beekeeping areas and street lot lines.
         (2)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales. Sales of agricultural products
may be conducted from all or part of a portable or permanent structure not
exceeding 2,000 square feet in floor area, under the following conditions:
            (a)   Only agricultural products, dairy products, home-made crafts
and homemade baked goods may be sold.
            (b)   A minimum of 25 percent of the products must be grown,
produced or raised on the property, in a 50-mile radius, or on other property
controlled by the operator or his/her relatives.
            (c)   Access to the lot must be controlled by physical means to
limit access to two points. The access point shall be no more than 24-feet
wide. The access shall be able to meet safe sight distance requirements along a
public street.
            (d)   Any new or expanded area of a building shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements of the district.
            (e)   Minimum parking–no less than one off-street parking space for
each 200 square feet of building floor area or a minimum of four spaces,
whichever is greater. All parking shall be provided behind the legal right-of-
way.
            (f)   The use shall be accessory to a principal agricultural use
that is on the same lot or an adjoining lot.
            (g)   In addition, “pick your own” fruits and vegetables shall be
allowed as a by right use without having to meet the requirements of this Use
A-2.
            (h)   If an operator is only selling products produced by their own
family, then a temporary farm stand with a maximum floor area of 150 square
feet may also be placed within the minimum front yard.
         (3)   A-3 Forestry. See definition in §
202. Note: all tree trunk diameters in this Section shall be measured at 4.5
feet above the ground level.
            (a)   Forestry is the management of forests and timberlands through
developing, cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for
commercial purposes, beyond tree cutting that is necessary and approved as part
of development of land or uses. These provisions are intended to ensure that
forestry occurs in accordance with accepted silvicultural practices, as
provided in § 107 of the State Municipalities Planning Code.
            (b)   Forestry is permitted by right, provided that a zoning permit
shall be required for forestry. The following activities shall not need a
zoning permit and are not required to comply with clauses (c) and (d):
               1)   Removal of dead or diseased trees adjacent (within the fall
zone) to occupied structures or public rights-of-way.
               2)   Removal of trees with a trunk diameter of less than 6
inches.
               3)   Removal of up to five trees with a trunk diameter greater
than 6 inches on each acre of land per calendar year, provided such tree
removal does not exceed 20 trees with a trunk diameter of 6 inches or more per
lot per calendar year, and provided that such tree removal does not involve
trees: a) on slopes of greater than 25 percent or b) on areas within 40 feet
from the bank of a perennial stream/watercourse or intermittent stream/
watercourse, and 10 feet from the centerline of an ephemeral stream/
watercourse. The removal allowed by this subparagraph (4) shall be in addition
to trees allowed to be removed under the other subsections of this clause.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
               4)   For removal of trees as part of a development, §
509.2.G and .H shall apply in place of this subsection.
               5)   Christmas tree farms in which trees are regularly
replanted. This exception shall only apply to trees that were planted for
harvest.
               6)   Tree nurseries in which live trees are removed for
replanting on another site. This exception shall only apply to trees that were
planted for harvest.
               7)   Removal of trees to create tillable soil for uses
404.A.(1), (5), (7) and (8), provided that any structures proposed or built
within three (3) years shall trigger the requirements of Section
509.1.A.
               8)   Fruit tree orchards.
            (c)   A zoning permit application for forestry shall be accompanied
by a forestry plan prepared by a forester, forest technician, or forest plan
preparer. The Zoning Officer shall consult with the Township Engineer or a
forester retained by the Township to determine the adequacy of the forestry
plan. Each plan must contain the following components:
               1)   The criteria for selection of trees to be removed must be
clearly stated and must conform to a plan for sustainable use of the forest
resource. Such plan shall describe how the health and diversity of the forest
will be protected and the potential for future timber harvests maintained.
               2)   The forestry plan shall address all applicable erosion and
sedimentation control and stream crossing regulations under Chapter 102,
Erosion Control Rules and Regulations and Chapter 105, Dam and Waterway
Management Rules and Regulations.
               3)   Forestry activities located within or discharging to any
exceptional value or high quality watershed as classified by PA DEP shall
comply with all requirements of the Pa.Code, Chapter 92 and 93. The forestry
plan shall specifically state how the applicant intends to comply with these
regulations, and shall show the location of all perennial and intermittent
watercourses.
               4)   The forestry plan shall address, at a minimum, the
following:
                  a)   Design, construction, maintenance, and retirement of the
access system, including haul roads, skid roads, skid trails, and landing.
                  b)   Design, construction, and maintenance of water control
measures and structures such as culverts, broad-based dips, filter strips, and
water bars.
                  c)   Design, construction, and maintenance of stream and
wetland crossings.
                  d)   Property boundary of the tract on which the logging will
occur and boundary of the proposed harvest area.
                  e)   A stand description for each stand located in the
proposed harvest area including number, species, and diameter of trees to be
removed.
                  f)   Copies of all required permits shall be submitted as an
appendix to the forestry plan.
               5)   Each forestry plan shall include a site map containing the
following information:
                  a)   Site location and boundaries, including both the
boundaries of the property on which the timber harvest will take place and the
boundaries of the proposed harvest area within that property.
                  b)   Significant topographic features related to potential
environmental problems.
                  c)   Location of all earth disturbance activities such as
roads, landings and water control measures and structures.
                  d)   Location of the crossings of all water bodies, including
but not limited to, waters of the Commonwealth.
                  e)   The general location of the proposed operation to
municipal and State highways, including any accesses to those highways.
               6)   Proof of current general liability and/or worker’s
compensation insurance.
               7)   Proof of PennDOT Highway Occupancy Permit or Township
Driveway Permit for temporary access, as applicable. The application shall only
be approved if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Township
that the area street system is suitable in terms of structure, cartway width,
geometry, safety, and capacity to accommodate the additional truck traffic.
               8)   Copy of County Conservation District “Letter of Adequacy”
for the proposed erosion control facilities, including associated plans,
reports and other permits as required.
            (d)   The following requirements shall apply to all forestry
operations, in addition to the requirement for a zoning permit:
               1)   The Township shall be notified at least 5 working days
prior to the commencement of operations and upon completion of all work
prescribed under the forestry plan.
               2)   The forestry plan and all related permits shall be
available at the forestry operation site.
               3)   Before any permitted logging operation begins, all trees
which are to be felled in connection therewith, shall be clearly marked on the
trunk and stump.
               4)   General Operational Requirements. The following
requirements shall govern all forestry operations:
                  a)   A “no logging” buffer zone with a width of 25 feet shall
be maintained on the property on which the logging operation is to be conducted
along all public streets. The buffer shall be measured from the legal right-of-
way. No trees shall be cut, removed, skidded or transported within the “no
logging” buffer zone except as necessary for access to the site from the public
street.
                  b)   A “no logging” zone with a width of 40 feet shall be
maintained as measured from the bank of perennial streams/watercourses and
intermittent streams/watercourses; and 10 feet from the centerline of an
ephemeral stream/watercourse. All earth disturbance related to forestry within
this zone shall be prohibited with the exception of temporary stream/
watercourse crossings permitted by PADEP.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
                  c)   No equipment, skidders, dozers, or tracked or tired
machines or vehicles, shall be permitted within a no logging buffer zone except
to permit crossing pursuant to items a) and b) above. No trees shall be felled
into a no logging buffer zone.
                  d)   A “limited logging” zone with a width of 50 feet shall
be maintained on the boundary of the site on which the logging operation is to
be conducted along abutting properties and with a width of 60 feet measured
from the edge of the “no logging” zone around streams. Uneven-age management
shall be practiced within the limited logging zone where the residual stand
must contain at least 70 square feet of basal area per acre consisting of trees
10 inches or greater in diameter at breast height. The limiting logging zone on
a property boundary shall not apply in cases where the adjoining property owner
has consented, in writing, to logging activities being conducted closer than 50
feet from the property boundary.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
                  e)   All temporary stream/watercourse crossings of a
perennial or intermittent stream/watercourse shall be made with a temporary
bridge. Skidding of trees, and the operation of any vehicle and equipment thru
a perennial or intermittent stream/watercourse shall be prohibited.
                  f)   Felling or skidding on, or across, any public street is
prohibited without written approval of the Township or Pennsylvania Department
of Transportation, whichever is responsible for maintenance of said street.
                  g)   No tops or slash shall be left within 25 feet of any
public roadway.
                  h)   All tops and slash shall be lopped to a maximum height
of 6 feet above the surface of the ground.
                  i)   No tops or slash shall be left on or across a property
boundary without the consent of the adjoining landowner.
                  j)   Litter (trash) resulting from any forestry operation
shall be cleaned up and removed from the site before it is vacated by the
operator.
                  k)   Any soil, stones and/or debris carried onto public
street must be removed immediately.
                  l)   On slopes of greater than 25 percent, uneven-age
management shall be practiced where the residual stand must contain 70 square
feet of basal area per acre consisting of trees 10 inches or greater in
diameter at breast height. No equipment, skidders, dozers, or tracked or tired
machines or vehicles shall be permitted on slopes greater than 25 percent.
                  m)   When the harvest is completed, both dirt roads used by
the trucks and skid roads used to drag the logs from the woods to the loading
area must be graded approximately to original contours, and be seeded and
mulched (hardwood or straw mulch) as necessary to establish stable groundcover.
                  n)   Temporary stone tire cleaning entrance (when required as
part of an approved erosion and sedimentation control plan) must be removed
with the area graded to approximate original contour and seeded and mulched to
establish stable groundcover.
                  o)   The no logging zone required by subsection item c) above
along streams/watercourses shall be marked with survey tape, temporary
nondestructive fencing or similar demarcation to prevent accidental incursion
into the no logging zone with heavy equipment.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
                  p)   Snags shall not be cut down unless the snag is a
potential hazard to improvements (e.g., dwelling, outbuilding, etc.) on the
property.
               5)   No tops or slash shall be left within a drainage swale.
               6)   The use of clear-cutting must be fully justified by a
forestry plan prepared by a qualified professional, and shall comply with
clause (c)1). Detailed information concerning increased stormwater runoff,
erosion control and a plan to assure regeneration shall be provided.
Clearcutting shall not be allowed on contiguous areas greater than ½ acre. A
full set of stormwater calculations shall be submitted to show that post-
development peak runoff will not exceed pre-development peak runoff.
               7)   If forestry involves more than 2 acres, a minimum of 30
percent of the forest cover (canopy) shall be kept and the residual trees shall
be well distributed to promote reforestation. The forestry plan shall provide
for replanting where necessary to continue proper forest management.
               8)   Financial Security. Financial security shall be established
in a manner acceptable to the Township to guarantee repair of all damage that
may occur to public streets due to the forestry/logging operations, and to
guarantee compliance with erosion and sedimentation control plans, compliance
with stormwater management plans and restoration of the site upon completion of
logging operations. Pursuant to 67 Pennsylvania Code, Chapter 189, the Township
may also require the landowner or operator to furnish a bond to guarantee the
repair of roads. Financial security shall not be released until the Zoning
Officer issues a written notification that all provisions of this Ordinance and
the permit have been complied with.
            (e)   Enforcement.
               1)   Inspections. The Township Zoning Officer or other Township
designated employee or consultant, may go upon the site of any forestry/logging
operation before, during or after active forestry to: a) review the forestry
plan or any other required documents for compliance with this Ordinance; and b)
inspect the operation for compliance with the forestry plan and other on-site
requirements of this Ordinance.
               2)   Violation Notices; Suspensions. Upon finding that a
forestry/logging operation is in violation of any provisions of this Ordinance,
the Township Zoning Officer shall issue the operator and the landowner a
written notice of violation describing each violation and specifying a date by
which corrective action must be taken. The Township Zoning Officer may order
the immediate suspension of any operation upon finding that: a) corrective
action has not been taken by the date specified in a notice of violation; b)
the operation is proceeding without a forestry plan; or c) the operation is
causing an environmental risk. Suspension orders shall be in writing, shall be
issued to the operator and the landowner, and shall remain in effect until, as
determined by the Township Zoning Officer, the operation is brought into
compliance with this Ordinance, or other applicable statutes or regulations.
The landowner or the operator may appeal an order or decision of the Zoning
Officer in accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code.
               3)   Penalties. Any landowner or operator who: a) violates any
provision of this Ordinance, or who fails to comply with a notice of violation
or suspension order issued under subclause 2) of this subsection, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500, nor more than $1,000, plus costs and
attorneys’ fees, in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code. Each day of continued violation of any provision of this Ordinance shall
constitute a separate offense.
               4)   Any operator who knowingly and willfully removes trees not
designated for removal in the approved forestry plan or removes trees outside
of the areas designated for removal by the forestry plan shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $1,000 per tree removed in violation of the
provisions of the forestry plan and this Ordinance. An operator that violates
the riparian buffer (no logging/limited logging zones) Sections of this
Ordinance, when that action results in damage to the streambank, shall be
required to restore the streambank in a manner approved by the Township.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (4)   A-4 Greenhouse. Buildings and structures associated with
interior vegetable production and/or horticultural or nursery uses, including
permanent, temporary or portable, cold sheds and the like provided:
            (a)   This use is required to include a plan for the recycling of
some or all fertilizers, pesticides and other organic or inorganic chemicals
used in or associated with the use.
            (b)   Minimum lot area–5 acres.
            (c)   The maximum permitted building surface ratio shall be 0.20,
unless a more restrictive requirement is established by the district
regulations.
            (d)   Retail sales shall be permitted in association with the
greenhouse provided that retail sales shall be limited to items that were
primarily grown on the premises, unless a retail store is allowed in that
District.
            (e)   Parking–one space for each 200 square feet of area devoted to
servicing customers.
         (5)   A-5 Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAGOs) as currently
defined by the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–25 acres.
            (b)   All of the requirements for Use A-1 shall also be met.
            (c)   Operation shall obtain all necessary permits from Department
of Environmental Protection and shall meet all required regulations of
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture and its State Conversation Commission.
            (d)   Copies of all permits and associated plans shall be submitted
to the Township.
         (6)   A-6 Kennel. The keeping of more than six dogs that are more than
6 months old on a lot as part of a commercial use or a dog breeding or dog
boarding activity, and which may also include the keeping of other household
pets, which shall meet the following conditions:
            (a)   Minimum lot area–5 acres.
            (b)   No animal shelter or runway shall be located closer than 300
feet to any residential building other than the owner’s. No animal shelter or
runway shall be located less than 100 feet from a lot line of another lot.
Buildings shall be soundproofed to avoid nuisances to neighbors. The noise
regulations of §
508 shall apply.
            (c)   The kennel shall be constructed so that the animals cannot
stray therefrom.
            (d)   The permanent capacity of the kennel shall not exceed 10 dogs
or other animals per acre.
            (e)   The property shall have a buffer yard of 20 feet in width
containing a dense screen of plantings, planted in accordance with the buffer
requirements of this Ordinance, along all property and street lines.
            (f)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for each
employee plus space for each 10 animals in capacity, except for training where
one space shall be provided for each three animals involved in such training at
one time.
         (7)   A-7 Nursery. The outdoor raising of plants, shrubs and trees for
sale and transplantation.
            (a)   Retail sales shall be permitted in association with the
nursery provided that the sales facilities meet the requirements of Use A-2.
Any nursery which has associated with it retail sales shall have a lot area not
less than 15 acres.
            (b)   Any building or structure associated with the nursery shall
meet the yard, lot width and setback requirements for single-family detached
dwellings for the district in which the use is located. One single-family
detached dwelling shall be permitted on the property.
            (c)   Parking–one space for each 200 square feet of area servicing
customers.
         (8)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable. Equestrian riding academy,
livery or boarding stable, subject to the following provisions:
            (a)   Minimum lot area–10 acres.
            (b)   Dwellings and accessory farm buildings shall be permitted in
accordance with the regulations for agriculture, Use A-1.
            (c)   Horses pastured at a stable or riding academy shall be
limited to a density of 0.5 animal equivalent units per acre, unless an
approved Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) Management Plan or
certified Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) allows greater grazing density. The
number of horses not pasturized (i.e., stabled or boarded) shall be limited by
a Manure Management Plan certified by the Bucks County Conservation District or
an approved Nutrient Management Plan.
            (d)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space shall be
provided for every three persons present at such facilities when they are used
to capacity. Parking facilities and driveways shall be able to accommodate the
largest vehicles used on the lot.
         (9)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business. An accessory farm business is a
low-intensity business use as provided below that is conducted on a lot
containing a principal agricultural or plant nursery use.
            (a)   The following requirements apply to accessory farm
businesses:
               1)   The purpose of these regulations is to encourage the
continuation of farming and the preservation of farmland in the Township by
allowing working farms to market their products and services directly to the
public as an accessory use and in a manner that is compatible with the rural/
residential character of the Township and with the Comprehensive Plan.
               2)   Accessory agricultural sales are also allowed under Use A-
2.
               3)   All accessory farm businesses shall meet the requirements
for water supply, sewage disposal and restroom facilities of the Township, DEP
and County.
               4)   The accessory farm business is permitted as an accessory
use only. The principal use of the property shall be agricultural. If any of
the conditions to which the use is subject cease to be met, such as the lot not
including a minimum of 15 acres with a principal agricultural use, then the
accessory farm business use shall also cease.
               5)   This use shall include the following as permitted by right
uses:
                  a)   Sale and service of farm equipment and the sale and
supply of farm supplies, such as feed, grain, fertilizer, and related accessory
products.
                  b)   Accessory farm entertainment uses if the requirements of
clause (b) are also met.
                  c)   Pony/horseback rides.
                  d)   Educational tours.
                  e)   Boarding of horses and similar animals.
                  f)   Small engine repair.
                  g)   Blacksmithing or sharpening services.
                  h)   Rental storage in a pre-existing building.
               6)   Other accessory uses that the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board are closely similar to uses provided
above may be approved as a special exception.
               7)   The use shall be conducted by a resident and owner of the
property, his/her relatives, and a maximum of two other persons working on-site
at one time, in addition to persons employed for agricultural uses. In
addition, a farm building that existed prior to the adoption of this Section
may be leased to a nonresident for a use meeting these standards.
               8)   An accessory farm business shall not occupy more than 5
percent of the lot area, and shall not involve construction of more than 5,000
square feet of building floor area for the use after the adoption of this
Section. Any newly built or expanded building shall maintain a residential or
agricultural appearance.
               9)   Any manufacturing use shall be of a custom nature, be
conducted completely indoors, and not require daily service by tractor-trailer
trucks.
               10)   The use shall not generate noises, odors, nuisances,
nighttime lighting, or hazards beyond what is typical for an agricultural use.
               11)   Minimum tract area–15 acres.
            (b)   Accessory Farm Entertainment Use. This is a type of accessory
farm business that involves the use of a farm for certain entertainment uses,
as provided below, such as festivals related to products grown on the farm. In
addition to complying with clause (a) above, an accessory farm entertainment
use is subject to the following additional requirements:
               1)   Minimum tract area–15 contiguous acres.
               2)   The accessory farm uses permitted under this clause are
limited to seasonal festivals related to products grown on the farm, craft
fairs, sleigh rides, corn mazes, hayrides, petting zoos, horse shows, and
closely similar activities. Food and nonalcoholic beverages may be sold to
persons attending the activities on the site. This use shall not include racing
of motorized vehicles or sale of alcoholic beverages, other than wine produced
on the premises.
               3)   No activity or event or building used for an activity or
event shall be located within 100 feet of a lot line of a lot containing an
existing dwelling, unless the owner of that dwelling provides a written waiver
to the Zoning Officer. Parking shall not occur within a street right-of-way or
within 25 feet from a lot line of an existing dwelling and 100 feet from an
existing dwelling, unless the owner of that dwelling provides a written waiver
to the Zoning Officer.
               4)   The use shall not be open to the public between 9 p.m. and
7 a.m., except that the use may be open to the public until 10 p.m. on Fridays
and Saturdays. No one accessory farm entertainment use shall be open to the
public for more than 31 days per calendar year. All accessory farm
entertainment uses on a lot shall not be open to the public on a total
aggregate of more than 90 days per calendar year, unless such time periods are
increased as a special exception use. A zoning permit shall be required for an
accessory farm entertainment use.
               5)   The following types of activities shall not be permitted:
                  a)   Activity that exceeds the noise limits of §
508.
                  b)   Mechanical amusement rides that involve moving persons
around by mechanical means.
                  c)   Flea markets involving sales by multiple households or
vendors.
                  d)   Musical concerts involving amplified music that attracts
more than 100 spectators.
               6)   Parking–off-street parking areas shall be provided in
designated areas to accommodate attendees. The driveway used by the public
shall have sufficient sight distances at entrances onto a street/road.
               7)   A traffic control plan and a parking control plan must be
submitted to and approved by the Township Police Department prior to the events
other than educational tours. Two access points onto a road shall be possible
to allow for emergencies.
               8)   The traffic access points shall be subject to approval by
the Township.
               9)   Lighting shall meet requirements of §
502. All event-related lighting is to be turned out 30 minutes after the event
has concluded.
               10)   Signs will be subject to the requirements of Article 9 of
this Ordinance.
            (c)   Accessory Mineral Extraction Use. This is a type of accessory
farm business that involves the use of not more than 5 acres of a farm for the
extraction of materials from the ground, such as sand, clay, shale, gravel,
topsoil, stone and other similar materials. Like other accessory farm
businesses, this use is permitted as an accessory use only. The principal use
of the property shall be agricultural. If any of the conditions to which this
use is subject cease to be met, such as the lot not including a minimum of 25
acres with a principal agricultural use, then the accessory mineral extraction
use shall cease. This use is subject to the following additional requirements:
               1)   This use shall be permitted as a special exception.
               2)   The minimum tract area of the farm on which this use is
conducted shall be 25 acres.
               3)   Extraction shall occur from no greater area than 5
contiguous acres, regardless of the size of the farm on which this accessory
use is conducted.
               4)   Prior to the grant of a special exception, an applicant for
approval of an accessory mineral extraction use shall establish the following:
                  a)   All required permits from applicable Federal, State and
local agencies have been obtained.
                  b)   Compliance with those provisions contained at paragraph
.G(7) G-7 Quarry (a) through (f) deemed relevant by the Zoning Hearing Board to
an accessory mineral extraction use of the size proposed given the size of the
farm on which the use is proposed.
(Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
      B.   Residential Uses. All dwelling units shall provide a minimum of two
off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit.
         (1)   B-1 Boarding House. A residential use in which the entire
building houses more than four unrelated persons and that includes two or more
rental units that do not meet the definition of a dwelling unit. This use may
or may not involve provision of meals to persons residing on the premises.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–1 acre, unless a larger lot area is required
by the applicable district.
            (b)   If an existing building is converted into a boarding house,
the provisions for a residential conversion in subparagraph (9) shall also be
met.
            (c)   Parking–one space per rental unit plus one space per
nonresident employee.
         (2)   B-2 Group Housing.
            (a)   B-2a Group Home. See definition in §
202.
               1)   If a group home use will need Federal, State or county
permits, certifications or licenses, then the operator shall provide evidence
of such permits, certifications or licenses to the Township prior to receiving
an occupancy permit. Any revocation or suspensions of such permits,
certifications or licenses shall be reported to the Zoning Officer in writing
within 7 days.
               2)   Parking–one parking space shall be provided for each
employee plus one space for each two residents. The Zoning Hearing Board may
remove a requirement for resident parking if the applicant proves that the
residents will not be permitted to have vehicles. Said parking spaces shall be
constructed so that no more than two spaces are located in the minimum front
yard.
               3)   The applicant shall prove that there will be adequate on-
site supervision, considering the type and number of residents.
               4)   The use shall occupy a lawful dwelling unit. If a new
detached group home is built, it shall meet the same lot area and dimensional
requirements as a single-family detached dwelling in that district.
               5)   A group home shall not involve more than six residents, in
addition to bona fide paid staff. A larger facility is defined as a halfway
house, unless a modification is granted under §
1010.2.
               6)   A group home shall not include a “treatment center” or a
“halfway house,” although such uses may be included within a group home land
development.
               7)   See also §
1010.2, which allows modifications of requirements where necessary to comply
with Federal law.
            (b)   B-2b Halfway House. See definition in §
202.
               1)   A halfway house shall meet the requirements for Use B-2a in
addition to the requirements of Use B-2b.
               2)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board that adequate safety and security measures will be in place.
            (c)   B-2c Group Home Land Development. See definition in §
202.
               1)   Each principal building shall be laid out in a manner that
the lot area and dimensional requirements could be met for each building as if
the building was a single-family detached dwelling in a single-family cluster
development. However, each building is not required to be on its own lot, and
multiple buildings may be located on one lot. The open space requirement for a
single-family cluster development shall also apply. A 100 feet minimum setback
shall apply from all perimeter lot lines of another lot occupied by an existing
single-family detached dwelling.
               2)   The requirements for Use B-2a shall also be met, in
addition to the provisions for Use B-2b if applicable.
               3)   An administrative building, counseling facilities,
community center, classrooms, recreation building and outdoor recreation
facilities shall be allowed. No commercial uses shall be allowed. The use of
any recreation building shall be limited to residents and clients of the
facility and their relatives and invited guests. A retail store shall not be
allowed.
         (3)   Reserved.
         (4)   B-4 Duplex. A building including two dwelling units, and that
does not meet the requirements for a twin dwelling.
         (5)   B-5 Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park. A parcel or contiguous
parcels of land which has been so designated and improved that it contains two
or more mobile home lots for the placement thereon of mobile homes.
            (a)   Mobile (manufactured) home parks are permitted in the HC and
DD districts.
            (b)   Minimum lot area - 5 contiguous acres.
            (c)   Minimum lot width - 100 feet at building set back line.
            (d)   Minimum open space ratio - 0.20. Open space shall conform to
the requirements of Section
512.
            (e)   Maximum impervious surface ratio for the site - 0.40.
            (f)   All mobile (manufactured) homes shall be:
               1)   Set back not less than 25 feet from the existing street
right-of-way of an existing public street and not less than 25 feet from any
lot line.
               2)   Located not less than 30 feet from an adjacent mobile home
or service building.
               3)   One-story or < 20 feet in height, whichever is more
restrictive.
            (g)   Parking - Off-street parking for two motor vehicles shall be
provided at each mobile home site. In addition, 0.5 parking space for each unit
shall be provided in common parking areas distributed throughout the
development. Parking may not exceed 10 percent of the base site area.
            (h)   Service Buildings. Within a mobile (manufactured) home park,
nonresidential uses such as management office, storage facilities for the park
residents or for park maintenance equipment, laundry facilities, maintenance
buildings, and a community building for the use of the park residents may be
constructed subject to the following standards:
               1)   All nonresidential buildings must be set back 15 feet from
interior street right-of-ways in the mobile (manufactured) home park.
               2)   Maximum height - three stories or 35 feet, whichever is
more restrictive.
            (i)   Internal streets - Safe and convenient vehicle access shall
be provided to public streets.
               1)   All vehicle traffic exiting a mobile home park shall access
a private street before accessing a public street. Each mobile (manufactured)
home shall be setback a minimum of 10 feet from an accessory building or raised
deck of a different mobile (manufactured) home.
               2)   All streets and parking areas shall be improved within
bituminous asphalt or concrete or other hard surface materials pre-approved by
the Township. Any private street serving eight or more dwelling units and any
public street shall meet the requirements of the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance for a public street. Street trees are required on all
streets.
            (j)   A convenient system of sidewalks shall be provided throughout
the park to every residence and recreational areas. The sidewalks shall meet
accessibility requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
            (k)   The development shall be furnished with sufficient outdoor
lighting to provide safe vehicle and pedestrian movement at night, at no cost
to the Township, Regulations of Section
502 apply.
            (l)   All utilities shall be placed underground within the mobile
(manufactured) home park.
            (m)   Each dwelling unit shall be served with Township-approved and
County-approved central water and central sewage systems, unless the average
density is less than one dwelling unit per acre.
Summary table of mobile home park (B-5) standards applicable to ZO Sections
605 (DD district) and
608 (HC district):
 
                    Minimum Open Space Maximum Impervious    Minimum Gross Site
                    Ratio for the Site Surface Ratio for the Area
                                       Site
B-5 Mobile
(Manufactured) Home .20                .40                   5 acres
Park**
** Township-approved central sewage and central water services shall both be
provided.
 
 
                    Minimum Lot Width   Minimum Yards on     Minimum Distance
                    at Minimum Bldg.    Park Perimeter:      Between Buildings
                    Setback Line (feet) Front/Each Side/Rear (feet)
                                        (feet)
B-5 Mobile
(Manufactured) Home 100                 15/15/15             30
Park**
 
         (6)   B-6 Apartment. An apartment dwelling is an attached dwelling
within a three-unit to 16-unit dwelling building and which does not meet the
definition of a townhouse or a residential conversion. The building has
setbacks on all four sides.
            (a)   The maximum length of such a building shall be 120 feet.
            (b)   Apartments shall be arranged in groups or clusters, not in
long rows.
            (c)   To create architectural interest in the layout and character
of housing fronting streets, variations in setbacks, rooflines and details
shall be required. In any case, a minimum of 6-foot variation in setback or
rooflines shall occur at least every 60 feet.
            (d)   The following building layout regulations shall apply:
               1)   The minimum spacing between apartment buildings shall be
equal to the height of the tallest building.
               2)   The minimum setback from the right-of-way of a public
street shall be 50 feet.
               3)   The minimum setback between an apartment building and a lot
line of a lot occupied by an existing single-family detached dwelling shall be
twice the height of the apartment building, unless a larger width is required
by another Section of this Ordinance.
               4)   The minimum setback from any other street, parking court or
lot line shall be 40 feet.
            (e)   Parking–in addition to the two parking spaces per dwelling,
there shall be an additional one-half parking spaces per unit to be located in
common parking areas that are distributed throughout the development, or
through suitable on-street spaces on newly built streets.
         (7)   B-7 Performance Subdivision. A performance subdivision is a
development that allows a mix of housing types, provides a variety of housing
choices, and involves clustered development with common open space.
            (a)   General Regulations.
               1)   Each dwelling unit shall be served with Township-approved
and County- approved central water and central sewage systems, unless the
average density is less than one dwelling unit per acre.
               2)   A minimum setback of 100 feet shall be required between any
new apartment building and any abutting lot line of a pre-existing single-
family detached dwelling that is not part of a performance subdivision.
               3)   The development shall consist of a harmonious grouping of
buildings, service and parking area circulation, and open spaces, planned as a
single unit, in such manner as to constitute a safe, efficient and convenient
residential site.
               4)   The development shall make the maximum feasible use of
access onto new local streets as opposed to having driveways entering onto pre-
existing public streets.
               5)   Provision shall be made for safe and efficient ingress and
egress to and from public streets and highways serving the site without undue
congestion to or interference with normal traffic flow within the region.
               6)   If the development is to be carried out in progressive
stages, each stage shall be so planned that the foregoing requirements and
intent of this Ordinance shall be fully complied with by the development at the
completion of any stage. For example, maximum density and minimum open space
shall be met with each phase.
               7)   The provisions for open space shall meet the requirements
of §
512.3.
            (b)   A performance subdivision shall comply with the Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance, as amended.
            (c)   Required Dwelling Unit Mix. All performance subdivisions
shall conform to the minimum standards for a mix of dwelling unit types as set
forth below:
 
Number of Dwellings In Minimum Required Number of Maximum Percent Any D.U. Type
Development            D.U. Types
1 to 60                1                          100
61 plus                2                          70
Note: D.U. = Dwelling Unit.
 
            (d)   Dwelling Unit Types. The following dwelling unit types shall
be permitted in a performance subdivision: Single-Family Detached Use B-11a and
B-11b; Duplex Use B-4; Twin House Use B-15; Village House Use B-16, Townhouse
Use B-14; and Apartments Use B-6.
            (e)   Each dwelling unit shall also meet the requirements of this
paragraph for that use type (such as the requirements for Use B-14 Townhouses).
            (f)   A convenient system of sidewalks or other approved pedestrian
walkways shall be provided throughout the development. The walkways shall meet
accessibility requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Where
this walkway system serves the same purpose as regular sidewalks, then
sidewalks shall not be required.
            (g)   A minimum of two deciduous shade trees shall be planted or
preserved on the site on the average for every dwelling unit. These trees shall
have a minimum trunk diameter of 2 inches measured 6 inches above the ground.
            (h)   Parking–in addition to the two parking spaces per dwelling,
there shall be an additional one-half parking spaces per unit to be located in
common parking areas that are distributed throughout the development, or
through suitable on-street spaces on newly built streets.
         (8)   B-8 Private Camp or Cottage Development. A use planned in a
unified manner for seasonal primarily outdoor recreational use and that
includes two or more cottages for sleeping purposes for guests, in addition to
recreational buildings and facilities.
            (a)   See separate provisions for Use E-16 Recreational Campsites.
Recreational vehicles shall only be allowed for overnight sleeping purposes
within Use E-16.
            (b)   The cottages shall serve seasonal purposes. No person shall
reside on the premises for more than 180 days in any calendar year, except for
a caretaker and his/her family.
            (c)   Minimum lot area–25 acres.
            (d)   Maximum density–a maximum sleeping capacity of 10 persons per
acre.
            (e)   Minimum building setback from exterior lot lines–75 feet. To
the maximum extent feasible, any forested land within this perimeter setback
shall remain preserved.
            (f)   A minimum of 75 percent of the total site area shall be
maintained in open space, with any existing forest land preserved within such
area, except at trail, driveway and utility crossings.
            (g)   To provide access for firefighting, each detached building
shall be setback a minimum of 20 feet from any other building.
         (9)   B-9 Residential Conversion. Such use shall include the
conversion of an existing dwelling into two or more dwelling units or the
conversion of a nonresidential or accessory building into no more than one
dwelling, provided:
      (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (a)   The yard requirements for the district in which the use is
located shall be met.
            (b)   The following minimum floor areas per unit shall be required:
               1)   Efficiency or one bedroom–600 square feet.
               2)   Two bedrooms–750 square feet.
               3)   Three or more bedrooms–900 square feet.
            (c)   All conversions must comply with all applicable construction
codes.
            (d)   If a one-family dwelling is converted, it shall maintain the
appearance of a one- family dwelling as viewed from the street.
            (e)   Exterior fire escapes and stairways shall only be used when
the need cannot be met with interior stairways. Where needed, exterior fire
escapes shall be located at the rear or side of the building.
            (f)   Documentation is required that any existing well and septic
system can accommodate additional demands, after any upgrades or replacement by
the applicant.
            (g)   Parking–no additional off-street parking shall be permitted
in the minimum front yard. Parking in the side and rear yards shall be visibly
buffered from the street and the adjacent yards.
         (10)   Reserved for future use.
         (11)   B-11a (Less than 5 lots) and B-11 Single-Family Detached
Dwellings. A single-family detached dwelling involves a single dwelling unit
with a front, rear and two side yards. The following additional requirements
shall apply for a single-family detached dwelling which is a mobile
(manufactured) home and that is placed outside of a mobile home park:
            (a)   An enclosure shall be erected around the entire base of each
mobile (manufactured) home that has the appearance of a perimeter foundation.
Such enclosure shall provide sufficient ventilation to inhibit decay and
deterioration of the structure. The hitch and wheels shall be removed.
            (b)   Each mobile (manufactured) home shall be set level and
anchored on a concrete pad, piers or other approved installation system. The
installation shall meet the Township Construction Codes (including the One- and
Two-Family Code and the Plumbing Code) and the recommendations of the
manufacturer.
            (c)   No mobile (manufactured) home shall be placed, erected or
relocated in the Township unless it was certified as meeting U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development construction and safety standards for
manufactured homes. (Note: such standards applied to homes built in 1976 or
later.)
         (12)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster. A single-family detached
cluster use shall include single-family detached dwellings on individual lots
that are clustered to preserve open space. See also §
512.3 and the cluster provisions in applicable districts in Article 6.
            (a)   Cluster developments shall be located and designed to
minimize intrusion of development upon the productive agricultural soils and
protected natural resources. The development shall be kept in tight
configuration to minimize the edge of the development that abuts active
farmland.
            (b)   Each dwelling unit shall be served with Township-approved and
county-approved central water and central sewage systems, unless the average
density is less than one dwelling unit per acre.
         (13)   B-13 Subdivision Creating Large Lots. This Use B-13 applies
when an applicant proposes that every lot within a subdivision include a lot
area that is at least three times the minimum lot area in the applicable
district.
            (a)   If Use B-13 applies, the applicant may request modifications
or waivers to requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance in
recognition of the decreased impact of the proposed development. These
modifications may include, but are not limited to, reduced road widths, the
allowance of shared driveways, and reduced submission requirements. As a
condition of such modifications or waivers, the Board of Supervisors may
require that lots not be further subdivided, with enforcement through a deed
restriction or conservation easement.
            (b)   Private streets and shared driveways may be approved as part
of Use B13.
         (14)   B-14 Townhouse. A townhouse dwelling is a one-family attached
or semi-detached dwelling within a building that involves three or more
dwelling units attached side-by-side or back-to-back, with only one dwelling
unit from ground to roof. No more than two vertical walls of each dwelling are
in common with other such dwellings, provided:
            (a)   A maximum of five dwelling units shall be permitted in a row,
with no more than eight dwelling units connected in any manner.
            (b)   Townhouses shall be arranged in groups or clusters. The total
length of a row of townhouses shall not exceed 160 feet.
            (c)   To create architectural interest in the layout and character
of housing fronting streets, variations in setbacks, rooflines and details
shall be required. In any case, a minimum of 2 feet variation in setback or
rooflines shall occur at least every third dwelling.
            (d)   Each townhouse dwelling shall have a minimum building width
of 18 feet. However, if a townhouse dwelling has garage door(s) entering onto
the front of the dwelling, then the minimum building width shall be 20 feet. If
more than 50 percent of the front yard would be paved, then the minimum
building width shall be 24 feet.
            (e)   Parking–in addition to the two parking spaces per dwelling,
there shall be an additional one-half parking spaces per unit to be located in
common parking areas that are distributed throughout the development, or
through suitable Township-approved on-street spaces.
            (f)   Reserved.
         (15)   B-15 Twin House. A twin house involves two single-family semi-
detached dwelling units, with the dwelling units completely separated by one
vertical wall.
         (16)   B-16 Village House. A village house is a single-family detached
dwelling on a separate lot. It differs from other forms of single-family
detached housing in its placement on the lot, which are similar to houses found
in the historic villages and towns. The unit is intended to be located at the
building setback line and is additionally distinguished from other single-
family houses by planting or architectural treatment.
            (a)   Each unit shall include a minimum of two of the following
characteristics:
               1)   An unenclosed front porch with a minimum length of 8 feet
and a minimum width of 6 feet.
               2)   A front yard enclosed by a decorative masonry wall or fence
of wood, vinyl post or masonry construction at least 30 inches in height or a
continuous hedge at least 24 inches in height.
               3)   Off-street parking and driveways shall be located outside
of the minimum front yard, such as by having a driveway and garage or parking
pad access a rear alley or side street, or having a narrow driveway that widens
to enter a garage towards the back of the dwelling.
            (b)   A village house shall include a minimum of one canopy tree or
two flowering trees within the front yard.
            (c)   Garages must be at least 20 feet back from the front of the
dwelling unit. Garages may be placed within 5 feet of the side or rear yard
property lines.
            (d)   The architecture of the village house shall be compatible
with and reflect architecture that is common within Bucks County villages,
including pitched roofs, window sizes, and a front door facing onto the front
of the lot.
            (e)   If there is no vehicle parking in the front yard, then the
minimum front yard may be reduced to 15 feet and the minimum side yard may be
reduced to 6 feet, unless a less restrictive requirement is established in the
applicable district.
         (17)   Farmland Lot. See definition in §
202 and requirements in §§
509.2.J,
510.2.B and
510.4.
      (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
      C.   Religious, Educational, Recreational and Institutional Uses.
         (1)   C-1 Cemetery. A cemetery shall include a burial place for
persons or pets, including a mausoleum, provided:
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 5 acres. A cemetery may be
accessory to a place of worship, provided the regulations for each are met.
            (b)   If the cemetery area exceeds 20 acres, one dwelling to be
used for custodial personnel may be permitted. If the cemetery area is less
than 20 acres, there shall be no dwellings.
            (c)   Maximum impervious coverage–10 percent.
            (d)   Cemetery Design Standards.
               1)   The maximum height of buildings and structures shall be
three stories or 35 feet, whichever is more restrictive.
               2)   Entrance features such as gates, fountains, statuary, and
identification signs shall meet the principal front yard building set back for
the zoning district. No such entrance feature shall exceed 12 feet in height.
                  a)   There shall be not more than two one-sided
identification signs or one two-sided identification sign at each entrance,
each with a maximum sign area of 10 square feet and a maximum height of 8 feet.
No sign shall be illuminated. The number and size of signs within the interior
of the cemetery that are not readable from the lot line or a street are not
regulated.
               3)   Parking–parking along a driveway or parking on a stabilized
shoulder shall be provided such that traffic can still reach a public street
while the parking is being used.
            (e)   A crematorium shall need special exception approval and be
set back a minimum of 250 feet from any lot line of a dwelling. A crematorium
shall only be allowed within the PI District.
            (f)   Any building other than a crematorium shall be setback a
minimum of 75 feet from any residential property line.
         (2)   C-2 Commercial School. Such use shall include a trade,
professional, music, karate, dancing or similar school, provided:
            (a)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space per
employee, plus two spaces per three students on-site during peak periods.
Parking areas shall be adequately screened when situated next to land zoned for
or in residential use.
            (b)   The use shall not be open for business between the hours of
11 p.m. and 6 a.m.
         (3)   C-3 Day Care Center. Such use shall include providing day care
or nursery school to persons under age 16 for portions of the day, but not
including care by a relative or care provided by places of worship during
worship services, and not including care of six or fewer children at a time
which is considered an accessory use. This use shall also include providing
care and supervision during portions of the day to three or more adults who
need such a facility because of developmental or physical disability or because
of old age or illness, but which does not routinely provide overnight housing
or skilled nursing care.
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be equivalent to the minimum lot
area for a single- family detached dwelling for any district that allows such
dwelling.
            (b)   The use may be an accessory use to a place of worship.
            (c)   For a child day care center, an outdoor recreation area shall
be provided and be enclosed with a secure minimum 48 inch high fence. The
recreation area shall be screened in accordance with §
503 so as to protect adjoining dwellings and shall provide adequate shade for
the clients.
            (d)   Such use shall show proof that it meets State regulations and
has a State license, as applicable.
            (e)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for each
employee plus one parking space per five persons cared for at peak times.
Parking shall be buffered and screened in accordance with §
503 when situated next to land in a residential use.
            (f)   In a residential district, the use shall not be open for
business between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m.
         (4)   C-4 Golf Course. A golf course may include a clubhouse,
restaurant, and other accessory uses, provided these are clearly accessory to
the golf course.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–50 acres.
            (b)   No building or parking lot shall be closer than 100 feet to
any residential lot line. No building shall be less than 50 feet from any other
lot line.
            (c)   Primarily evergreen trees shall be planted where necessary
between portions of the golf course and adjacent homes to reduce the potential
of golf balls hitting homes.
            (d)   Parking.
            (e)   Two off-street parking space per golf hole, plus parking
required by any restaurant/meeting facility, plus one additional space per one
and two-tenths employees.
            (f)   Driving Range. No less than one off-street parking space for
every tee, plus one space for each employee.
            (g)   A driving range shall not be lit for nighttime use.
            (h)   The applicant shall present a plan for protecting the water
quality of watercourses and groundwater, which shall include proper management
of pesticides and fertilizers that is acceptable to the Township. When
conditional use approval is required, the Board of Supervisors may place
conditions on the approval to protect water quality. Perennial watercourses and
wetlands shall be surveyed and shown on the plan.
            (i)   Maximum impervious coverage–10 percent, unless a more
restrictive requirement is established by another Section of this Ordinance.
            (j)   Changes to the property that will impact stormwater runoff
within or from the property or into any watercourse shall not occur unless a
stormwater management plan has been submitted to and found to be acceptable by
the Township. Such stormwater plan shall be consistent with Township stormwater
regulations. Plantings and buffer strips are encouraged to be placed along
watercourses to minimize erosion and filter out pollutants.
         (5)   C-5 Hospital. An establishment, licensed by the State Department
of Health, which provides health services for in-patient and out-patient
medical care of the sick or injured, and which may also include related
facilities, such as laboratories, training facilities, central service
facilities, and staff offices as an integral part of the establishment.
            (a)   Lot and yard requirements.
               1)   Minimum lot area–10 acres.
               2)   Minimum lot width–500 feet.
            (b)   A hospital shall be located along an arterial or major
collector street.
            (c)   Parking–one space for every one and one-half in-patient or
out-patient treatment beds plus one space per one and one-tenths employee on-
site during peak periods. Parking areas must be adequately screened with a
planted buffer 30 feet in width when situated adjacent to land zoned for or in
residential use.
         (6)   C-6 Library or Museum. Such use shall include a library or
museum open to the public that is not operated as a private commercial
business, or a museum or library connected with a permitted educational use.
            (a)   Parking–no less than one space per five seats or one space
per 220 square feet of gross floor area where no seats are provided, plus one
space for every employee. Parking areas shall be buffered in accordance with §
503 when situated next to land zoned for or in a residential use.
         (7)   C-7 Municipal Facility. Such use shall include a facility
operated by the Township or an authority established by the Township or a
nonprofit fire or ambulance/emergency medical services company. This shall
include a municipal administration building, fire or ambulance station, police
headquarters, water system, sanitary sewage system, stormwater facilities,
district justice facility, library, or public works maintenance facility. More
than one municipal facility shall be allowed on a lot.
            (a)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
employee on-site during peak periods or one space for every three seats in the
largest meeting room, whichever is greater.
            (b)   The facility shall meet the minimum yard and lot requirements
that would apply to a single-family detached dwelling, in a district where such
dwelling is allowed. However, a stormwater detention facility or water supply
well is not required to meet any lot dimensional requirements.
            (c)   Parking areas and outdoor storage of equipment and trucks be
buffered in accordance with §
503 when situated next to land zoned for or in a residential use.
         (8)   C-8 Nursing Home. Such use shall include a State-licensed
intermediate or skilled nursing facility that provides health care to persons
with chronic diseases or disabilities or who are undergoing physical
rehabilitation.
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 5 acres. A minimum of 10
percent of the lot area shall be improved for outdoor recreation by the
residents, with hard-surface accessible paths, landscaping and benches. Areas
that remain in woods may count towards this 10 percent area.
            (b)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
five beds, plus one space per one and two-tenths employees.
         (9)   C-9 Personal Care Center. An establishment approved by the
applicable State agency as a personal care center and which provides housing,
meals, supervision and limited types of medical assistance for persons for
periods exceeding 1 day, which serves three or more persons, and which serves
persons who need such services but do not need skilled nursing home care. A
personal care center typically is primarily intended for persons who need such
services because of old age, illness, or disability, and may include housing
for that person’s spouse. Use C-9 may also include an assisted living center or
a hospice.
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 5 acres. A minimum of 20
percent of the lot area shall be improved for outdoor recreation by the
residents, with hard-surface paths, landscaping and benches. Areas that remain
in woods may count towards this 20 percent area.
            (b)   Maximum density–20 beds per acre.
            (c)   Accessory retail stores and personal service facilities shall
be allowed, provided they primarily serve residents, employees and guests and
are in the same building as the personal care center. Such retail uses shall be
limited to sale of household items, cards, beverages, food, drugs, crafts,
gifts and similar items. Such service uses shall be limited to a barber/beauty
shop and similar services. A restaurant may be open to guests of residents. No
signs shall be allowed that advertise the retail or service uses that are
visible from the exterior of the lot.
            (d)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
four beds, plus one space per one and two-tenths employees.
         (10)   C-10 Place of Worship. Such use shall include a church,
synagogue, mosque, temple, or other similar place regularly used for religious
worship, and which may include accessory social and meeting rooms and
noncommercial recreation facilities that are primarily serving members of the
place of worship.
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 2 acres, except 5 acres for a
building with seating capacity in one room of more than 600 persons.
            (b)   A day care center shall be allowed as an accessory use,
provided the requirements for a day care center in this Section are met.
            (c)   Minimum Yards. The minimum yards for the district shall
apply, except that where a place of worship abuts a residential use, the
minimum side yard shall be doubled.
            (d)   Parking–a minimum of one off-street parking space for each
four seats in the largest room, plus one additional space for each employee on-
site during religious services. Parking areas shall be adequately screened when
situated next to land zoned for or in residential use.
         (11)   C-11 Private Organization. A private club is a nonprofit
association supported by dues or fees imposed on a uniform basis upon all
members and paid at least in part for membership status rather than for
periodic use of the club’s facilities; includes, but is not limited to,
fraternal, school, athletic, or other associations, with rules, bylaws,
charter, or local or national affiliation and is based on membership of persons
with common interests, pursuits, or purposes and is subject to the following
additional provisions:
            (a)   The use and each building shall be primarily for bona fide
members and their authorized guests.
            (b)   Outdoor play areas shall be sufficiently screened and
isolated so as to provide a buffer to adjacent residences from inappropriate
noise, light and other disturbances. See §
503.
            (c)   In residential districts, any Use C-11 shall be limited to
homeowner associations, neighborhood associations and similar organizations
that do not provide dining services or the sale of alcohol as part of their
regular activities, unless such a club conducted such activities prior to the
adoption of this Ordinance.
            (d)   The use shall not include a tavern, restaurant or vehicle
racetrack, unless the requirements for that use are also met. A firearms target
range shall only be allowed if the club includes a minimum lot area of 100
acres, or if the firearms target range existed lawfully prior to the adoption
of this Ordinance or if the firearms target range is allowed by other
provisions of this Ordinance.
            (e)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
five members of total design capacity of the facility or at least one off-
street parking space for each 50 square feet of floor area used or intended to
be used for service to customers, patrons, guests, or members, whichever
requires the greater number of off-street parking spaces, plus one additional
space for each employee.
            (f)   If the use is allowed and located in a residential district,
the use shall not be open to the public, patrons or guests between the hours of
midnight and 6 a.m. and during such hours, the use shall not have exterior
lighting turned on, except what is necessary for security. Where special
exception or conditional use approval is required, the Board may require limits
on hours of operation and lighting, which may be more restrictive than is
provided in this subparagraph.
         (12)   C-12 Recreational Facility or Community Center. A recreational
facility shall include recreational facilities other than a municipal or county
park. This use shall include a swim club, athletic fields owned by an athletic
association, buildings for indoor court games such as racquetball, and
facilities related thereto. A community center shall include an educational
center or other similar facility operated by an educational, philanthropic or
religious institution, Township, or homeowners’ association.
            (a)   No athletic field or athletic court shall be within 100 feet
of an adjacent lot line of an existing dwelling. A minimum lot size of 1 acre
is required.
            (b)   The use shall not permit wild animal parks, zoos, or golf
driving ranges.
            (c)   Outdoor active recreational areas and parking areas shall be
screened and buffered from adjacent existing dwellings, with a buffer yard
meeting §
503 with a minimum width of 20 feet.
            (d)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for each
five persons of total design capacity of the facility or at least one off-
street parking space for each 50 square feet of indoor building floor area used
or intended to be used for service to customers, patrons, clients, guests, or
members, whichever requires the greater number of off-street parking spaces,
plus one additional space for each employee.
            (e)   If the use is allowed and located in a residential district,
the use shall not be open to the public, patrons or guests between the hours of
midnight and 6 a.m., and during such hours, the use shall not have exterior
lighting turned on, except what is necessary for security. Where special
exception or conditional use approval is required, the Board may require limits
on hours of operation and lighting, which may be more restrictive than is
provided in this subparagraph.
         (13)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College. This use may
include a public or private institution of elementary or secondary school, or a
college or university that is authorized to grant degrees of higher education
by the Pennsylvania Department of Education.
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 8 acres, plus 1 acre for each
100 students of projected maximum enrollment of the institution.
            (b)   Minimum yards–
               1)   Front yard–100 feet.
               2)   Side yard–100 feet.
               3)   Rear yard–100 feet.
            (c)   Outdoor active recreational areas and parking areas shall be
screened and buffered from adjacent existing dwellings, with a buffer yard
meeting §
503 with a minimum width of 20 feet.
            (d)   Parking.
            (e)   Elementary School or Middle School. No less than one off-
street parking space for each employee plus one space per two classrooms.
            (f)   High School. No less than one off-street parking space for
each employee, plus one additional space per each three students over age 16,
or one space for every three seats in the largest capacity gymnasium, stadium
or auditorium, whichever is greater.
            (g)   College and University. No less than one off-street parking
space for each employee and one additional space per each two students
attending classes on the site at peak times, or one space for every three seats
in the largest gymnasium, stadium or auditorium, whichever is greater.
            (h)   If a school, college or university will have two or more
gymnasiums, stadiums or auditoriums in use by spectators or patrons at one
time, then the parking requirements for all such facilities in use at one time
shall be required to be added together.
         (14)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. Such use shall include
a park owned or operated by the Township or a nonprofit organization, provided:
            (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 1 acre.
            (b)   The use shall not include any active recreational facilities
or athletic fields, but may include a nature preserve, walking trails and other
passive recreational activities.
            (c)   The use shall be open to members of the public at no cost and
shall only be open during daylight hours.
            (d)   Parking shall be provided as determined by the Township.
            (e)   There shall be no outdoor lighting permitted.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
         (15)   C-15 Detention Facility. Such use, whether owned and operated
by the County of Bucks, State of Pennsylvania, or a private entity, shall be
limited to the following:
            (a)   A juvenile detention facility as described and regulated in
42 Pa.C.S.A. § 6327.
            (b)   A rehabilitation center providing for minimum security
detention of prisoners for work release or partial confinement. Such
rehabilitation centers shall not include facilities for the total confinement
of prisoners who have been sentenced or who are awaiting trial.
            (c)   A penitentiary, correctional institution or prison.
            (d)   The following dimensional regulations shall apply:
               1)   Minimum lot size shall be 10 acres.
               2)   Minimum lot width at building setback line shall be 300
feet.
               3)   The minimum front yard shall be 150 feet, and no accessory
use may protrude any closer than 75 feet from the front property line.
               4)   The minimum side yards shall be 150 feet each, and no
accessory use may protrude any closer than 75 feet from the side property
lines.
               5)   The minimum rear yard shall be 150 feet, and no accessory
use may protrude any closer than 75 feet from the rear property line.
            (e)   The building locations and spacings shall be as follows:
               1)   The greatest dimension in length or depth of a building
shall not exceed 400 feet, and no more than three buildings may be attached to
each other. Furthermore, a building shall include design elements so as to
create an architecturally pleasing view of the building, notwithstanding the
length and depth of same.
               2)   The distance at the closest point between any two building
or groups of attached buildings, including accessory buildings, shall not be
less than 30 feet, but shall be at least as great as the average height of the
two adjacent buildings.
               3)   In no case shall the width of a building or the aggregate
widths of buildings fronting on a street on the same lot exceed 80 percent of
the width of the lot.
               4)   These regulations on building location and spacing shall
apply to both accessory and principal structures.
            (f)   The following development regulations shall apply:
               1)   The tract of land on which each permitted use is conducted
shall, in its entirety, be owned and operated as a single or common management
and maintenance unit, with common open space, parking, utility, maintenance and
service facilities and services.
               2)   The land surrounded by any C-15, Detention Facility Use
shall be landscaped, except for paved areas such as walkways, accessways and
play areas.
               3)   Any accessory building or structure which is industrial or
nonresidential in appearance, such as a boiler room or maintenance shop, shall
be buffered in conformance with the Type 1 Buffer requirements contained in §
503.4.A.
               4)   The property boundary line of a detention facility shall
not be located within 500 feet of a property boundary line where a school or
daycare is located.
               5)   Parking shall be provided equivalent to two parking spaces
for every three employees split between two or more shifts, all accessed from
one main drive leading into an arterial road.
            (g)   Detention facilities shall be permitted to have fences and
walls or a combination of fences and walls around the facility in a height not
to exceed 20 feet.
            (h)   A traffic study shall be required to be submitted with a
conditional use application.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
         (16)   Continuing Care Retirement Community.
            A.   A Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC) is an age-
restricted development, approved by the applicable State agency, that provides
a continuum of accommodations and care, from independent living to long-term
bed care, includes at least 2 of the following 4 primary care levels, and may
accommodate temporary respite care:
               i.   Independent living
               ii.   Assisted living or personal care
               iii.   Skilled nursing care
               iv.   Dementia/memory care
            B.   Because a CCRC permits multiple buildings and uses on a single
lot, Section
513.1 (Residential Planned Group Development) requirements shall apply. Staged
development shall begin with the central care facility to accommodate personal
care, skilled nursing care, dementia/memory care, and respite care.
            C.   Residents must be at least 55 years of age, except that
spouses or partners of residents may be less than 55 years old, and except that
residents of younger age may be permitted if they need such care because of
physical disabilities. A CCRC shall not include rehabilitation services for
substance abuse or criminal activity.
            D.   Residences shall be functionally, physically and
architecturally integrated with medical services, recreational activity, and
accessory uses. Each accessory use shall be located either in a building that
includes residential uses or in a community services building.
            E.   The services and facilities within the CCRC shall be for the
exclusive use of the residents, service clients, or guests of the community.
            F.   Respite care services for non-residential clients shall be
integrated within the central care facility.
            G.   CCRCs shall be allowed as a conditional use in zoning
districts DD and VR, and shall accommodate housing types allowed in Performance
Subdivisions (B-7), as well as mixed residential/medical/accessory use
buildings permitted by use C-16.
            H.   Minimum lot size = 10 acres.
            I.   Streets and Parking
               i.   All CCRC facilities shall adjoin and access either an
arterial or a collector road.
               ii.   Internal streets – Safe and convenient vehicle access
shall be provided to internal streets sufficient to accommodate residents,
staff, guests, and support services.
                  a.   All vehicle traffic exiting a CCRC shall access a
private street before accessing a public street.
                  b.   Parking – no less than one parking space for each
independent living unit or equivalent, plus one space for every 1.2 employees
on the most populous shift.
                  c.   All streets and parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance for a public
street. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall meet the
requirements of the American Disabilities Act (ADA). Such spaces shall be
located throughout the campus so that they are conveniently accessible to the
buildings or uses they serve.
                  d.   Street trees are required on all streets.
               iii.   A convenient system of sidewalks shall be provided
throughout the development to every residence and to recreational areas. The
sidewalks shall meet accessibility requirements under the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
               iv.   The development shall be furnished with sufficient outdoor
lighting to provide for safe vehicle and pedestrian movement at night, at no
cost to the Township. Regulations of Section
502 apply.
            J.   Maximum densities, dimensions, open space, and impervious
surface ratio requirements shall be those specified for the zoning district in
which the CCRC is located, and appropriate to the building type (apartment,
single family dwelling, duplex, townhouse, mixed residential/medical/accessory
use building, etc.; see Sections
604.B and
606.B).
               i.   For CCRCs, any two single beds that are not within a
dwelling unit (e.g., communal nursing care setting) shall be counted as one
dwelling unit when calculating density and parking.
               ii.   Mixed residential/medical/accessory use buildings within a
CCRC may contain up to 200 dwelling units, unless a lesser number of dwelling
units is established by application of maximum density requirements for the
CCRC use.
            K.   Independent dwelling units shall be held in common ownership.
            L.   Independent dwelling unit beds shall not comprise more than
50% of the total number of beds within a CCRC.
            M.   Open space areas should be developed for both passive and
active recreation facilities (pedestrian paths, sports courts, etc.) and
arranged to provide access to residents of the community, while preserving
natural areas and maintaining buffers along property lines adjacent to private
properties. Open space cannot include storm water management impoundment areas
(100 year storm event high water limits), parking lots, access drives,
buildings, or centralized water/sewer facilities, and is subject to
determination of net buildable site area based on requirements of Section
509.B.
            N.   A Type 1 buffer yard (Section
503) shall be installed where the perimeter of a CCRC property abuts other
residential uses.
            O.   In the VR district Section
607.C.(1) and (2) shall not apply to a CCRC campus development, but other sub-
sections are applicable.
            P.   A continuing care community development shall be served by
public water and public sanitary sewer facilities that are adequate to
accommodate the additional demand placed upon them by the proposed development.
               i.   If public sewer facilities are not available, a community
sewage disposal plant, approved by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, shall be
constructed for sanitary disposal of the sewage to accommodate expected demand.
               ii.   Sites shall be serviced by public water where the tract is
within a designated water franchise area and such service is available.
               iii.   Where public water does not exist, a community water
system that is in compliance with all applicable regulations may be utilized.
               iv.   Emergency preparations:
                  a.   On-site generator, with sufficient fuel for 10 days
operation, capable of providing electricity sufficient to power the sewage
disposal plant, the community water system, cooking needs, and air
conditioning/heating systems;
                  b.   Holding tank capable of storing 10 days of wastewater
volume;
                  c.   Back-up pump for community water system.
      D.   Office Uses.
          (1)   D-1 Medical Office. A building or buildings with multiple
offices for one or more physicians or dentists for examination or treatment of
persons as out-patients and laboratories incidental thereto.
            (a)   Parking–one space per 150 square feet of floor area.
         (2)   D-2 Office. A building for business, professional, or
governmental offices.
            (a)   Such use shall be carried on wholly indoors and within the
principal building.
            (b)   No office building shall have as its principal tenant a
store, beauty shop, or other personal service shop, and a maximum of 20 percent
of an office building may be devoted to such non-office uses.
            (c)   Parking–one space per 200 square feet of floor area.
         (3)   D-3 Veterinary Office or Clinic. The office of veterinarian.
            (a)   Other than the indoor keeping of sick animals, a kennel shall
only be allowed if the requirements for Use A-6 are also met.
            (b)   Parking–one space per 200 square feet of floor area.
         (4)   D-4 Office Park/Corporate Center. An office park is a planned
development of office and related uses which includes improvements for internal
streets, coordinated utilities, landscaping and buffering.
            (a)   The proposed development shall be constructed in accordance
with an overall plan and shall be designed as or as part of a single
architectural and landscaping theme. Buildings as a unit shall comply with the
area and yard requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. The
development shall consist of harmonious groupings of buildings, service, and
parking areas and open spaces, planned as a single unit. Individual
establishments may be in attached structures or detached structures.
            (b)   Minimum Distance Between Buildings. The distance shall at
least equal the height of the taller building.
            (c)   Outdoor storage or display of materials is prohibited.
            (d)   To the maximum extent feasible, all uses within the park
shall take access from an interior roadway. Access to the park shall be from an
arterial or collector roadway.
            (e)   Parking–one space per 250 square feet of floor area. Parking
shall be buffered from an adjacent dwelling in accordance with §
503.
            (f)   Individual uses may be located in detached and attached
structures and may involve condominium ownership.
            (g)   No parking and loading facilities shall be located within 30
feet from the curb line of a public street at the front of the lot. Where curb
does not exist, such distance shall be measured from the street right-of-way.
      E.   Retail and Consumer Services Uses.
         (1)   E-1 Adult Entertainment.
            (a)   Adult entertainment includes any of the following uses:
               1)   Adult Store. “Adult store” means a commercial establishment
in which more than 10 percent of the total floor area of the business is used
for sale or rental for any form of consideration of one or more of the
following:
                  a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter,
or photographs, films, videocassettes or other electronic media which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” as defined in §
202.
                  b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are
designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
               2)   “Adult live entertainment use” means an establishment which
features live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” (as defined in §
202).
               3)   “Adult theater” means a commercial establishment where, for
any form of consideration, films, or other electronic media are regularly shown
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (b)   No adult entertainment use shall be located within any of the
following distances:
               1)   Within 1,000 feet of:
                  a)   A place of worship.
                  b)   A public or private educational facility including, but
not limited to, child day-care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, primary
or secondary schools, and including the school grounds.
               2)   On the same lot as premises licensed to allow the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
               3)   Within 500 feet of:
                  a)   A boundary of a residential zoning district or the lot
line of an existing dwelling.
                  b)   A public park or recreational area, including, but not
limited, to a park, playground, recreation trails, swimming pool, athletic
field, or other similar lands.
                  c)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily
towards children and family entertainment.
            (c)   No adult materials shall be visible from the exterior of the
building.
            (d)   No persons under the age of 18 years of age shall be
permitted within an adult entertainment establishment.
            (e)   Parking–one space per 40 square feet of building floor area
or one space per seat, whichever is more restrictive.
            (f)   Screening and Buffering. Any lot which is to be used for any
adult entertainment use shall contain screening and buffering along property
lines adjoining other zoning districts in accordance with the provisions of §
503, except that the minimum buffer yard width shall be 50 feet and the minimum
initial height of plantings shall be 6 feet.
            (g)   To minimize the secondary impacts upon other properties, the
use shall not be open for business between the hours of 12 midnight and 6 a.m.
            (h)   The applicant shall prove compliance with all applicable
State laws.
         (2)   E-2 Vehicle Sales. The sale and lease of motor vehicles, boats,
motorcycles, trucks, trailers, recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, or
farm machinery, provided that vehicle sales shall be licensed by the State
where required.
            (a)   Lighting. All outside lighting shall be directed in such a
way as not to create a nuisance to any adjacent property, and all lighting
shall be arranged and shielded so as to protect the street or highway and
adjoining property from direct glare or hazardous interference of any kind.
When the use is not open to the public, outdoor sign lighting shall be turned
off and other lighting shall be limited to what is necessary for security.
            (b)   All facilities shall be located and all services be conducted
within the confines of the lot.
            (c)   All preparation, lubrication, repair or similar activities
shall be accessory to the principal use and shall be conducted within a
building.
            (d)   Separate access ways shall be provided for the safe and
convenient egress and ingress of motor vehicles. No access way shall exceed 35
feet in width nor be less than 15 feet in width.
            (e)   A 20-foot wide area maintained in grass or other natural
ground cover shall separate the use from the curb line. If no curb is provided,
such width shall be measured from the ultimate/future street right-of-way. Such
width may be met using green space on one or both sides of any sidewalk.
            (f)   All automobile parts and similar articles shall be stored
within a building.
            (g)   Storage or display of vehicles, boats, and trailers for sale
shall be placed no closer to the ultimate/future street right-of-way line than
25 feet.
            (h)   There shall be no more than one access point into the
facility from each street on which the facility has frontage.
            (i)   This use shall not include the on-site outdoor storage or
sale of three or more wrecked vehicles or parts of such vehicles. See Use G-
1 salvage facility.
            (j)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
25 vehicles on display, plus one space for every employee. Parking spaces for
vehicles for sale or rent are not required to meet minimum aisle width and
stall sizes.
         (3)   E-3 Vehicle Repair, Body and Paint Shop, Vehicle Accessory
Sales. Establishments doing general motor vehicle repair, paint spraying, body
and fender work, custom body work, and/or sale of motor vehicle parts and
accessories; but not including the sale of gasoline or diesel fuel unless such
use is specifically allowed and approved, and not including a Use G-1 salvage
facility unless such use is specifically allowed and approved:
            (a)   All major vehicle repair work shall be performed within a
building.
            (b)   All related vehicle parts, refuse, and similar articles shall
be stored within a building or enclosed area. Storage of same is not allowed
within the 100-year floodplain or any riparian buffer or wetland.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (c)   No vehicle shall be stored in the open awaiting repairs for a
period exceeding 14 consecutive days, unless screened from all adjacent roads
and properties by a fence and evergreen plantings each at least 6 feet in
initial height, with a mature planting height of at least 8 feet.
            (d)   A 20-feet wide area maintained in grass or other natural
ground cover shall separate the use from the curb line. If no curb is provided,
such width shall be measured from the ultimate/future street right-of-way. Such
width may be met using green space on one or both sides of any sidewalk.
            (e)   Storage or display of vehicles, boats, and trailers for sale
shall be placed no closer to the ultimate/future street right-of-way line than
25 feet.
            (f)   Storage of used vehicle batteries and hazardous substances
shall meet State and Federal regulations and be located under cover and on a
non-impervious surface that does not allow drainage onto soil or streets. Any
containment of hazardous materials shall be disposed of in compliance with the
law.
            (g)   This use shall not include the outdoor storage of three or
more wrecked vehicles, other than vehicles that are awaiting imminent repair.
See Use G-1.
            (h)   Parking–one space for every two service bays, plus one space
per employee, plus one space for every 200 square feet of floor area devoted to
retail sales of parts and accessories.
            (i)   Chemical and chemical waste storage is prohibited within the
100-year floodplain, and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (4)   E-4 Car Wash.
            (a)   A car wash shall include water recycling of the majority of
the water that is used.
            (b)   Car washes shall be designed with a stacking area adequate
for six cars so that waiting cars do not interfere with traffic flow.
            (c)   The facility shall have a drainage system which ensures that
water will not collect on driveways, sidewalks, streets or storm drains in a
manner that would allow car washing runoff to enter creeks or the ground
without treatment specifically designed to remove particulates, nutrients, and
other contaminants.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (d)   Parking–one space per employee, plus areas for drying of
vehicles.
         (5)   E-5 Convenience Store. A retail store offering primarily
groceries, prepared food items, and other small consumer items intended for
quick carry-our trade. Liquid fuel sales shall only be allowed if Use E-19 is
also allowed and approved.
            (a)   Separate access ways shall be provided for the safe and
convenient egress and ingress of motor vehicles. No access way shall exceed 35
feet in width nor be less than 15 feet in width.
            (b)   Access to the street shall be physically controlled by a
concrete curbing at least 6 inches in height or landscaping that forms a
barrier.
            (c)   The applicant’s site plan shall show how off-street loading
will be able to be accomplished without obstructing driveways and without
intruding into buffer yards.
            (d)   The use shall provide a trash storage area which shall be
screened from the street and adjacent properties by an enclosed solid fence
and/or decorative masonry wall at least 6 feet in height to prevent trash from
blowing from the area and to serve as a visual screen for the trash area.
            (e)   When the use is not open to the public, outdoor sign lighting
shall be turned off and other lighting shall be limited to what is necessary
for security.
            (f)   Parking–one space for every 150 square feet of total building
floor area.
         (6)   E-6 Restaurant. A place for the sale and consumption of food and
beverage that does not include drive-through service and that is not a “tavern”
unless the requirements for such use are also met.
            (a)   Drive-through service is prohibited unless Use E-7 is allowed
and approved.
            (b)   The applicant’s site plan shall show how off-street loading
will be able to be accomplished without obstructing driveways and without
intruding into buffer yards.
            (c)   The use shall provide a trash storage area which shall be
screened from the street and adjacent properties by an enclosed solid fence
and/or decorative masonry wall at least 6 feet in height to prevent trash from
blowing from the area and to serve as a visual screen for the trash area.
            (d)   When the use is not open to the public, outdoor sign lighting
shall be turned off and other lighting shall be limited to what is necessary
for security.
            (e)   Parking–one space per 50 square feet of total building floor
area plus one space per employee, or eight spaces, whichever is more
restrictive. In addition, if curbside pickup is allowed, then two additional
spaces shall be provided for such purpose.
         (7)   E-7 Restaurant with Drive-Through Service. A place for the sale
and consumption of food and beverages that includes ordering and providing of
food to customers while they sit in their vehicles on the lot. This shall not
include a “tavern” unless the requirements for such use are also met.
            (a)   The use must abut a collector or arterial street.
            (b)   There shall be only one point of ingress and only one point
of egress per collector or arterial street, unless specifically approved
otherwise by the Township.
            (c)   Where a drive-through window is proposed, a stacking lane
shall be provided to serve a minimum of seven cars. The stacking lane shall not
be used for parking lot circulation aisles, nor shall it in any way conflict
with through circulation or parking.
            (d)   The use shall provide a trash storage area which shall be
screened from the street and adjacent properties by an enclosed solid fence
and/or decorative masonry wall at least 6 feet in height to prevent trash from
blowing from the area and to serve as a visual screen for the trash area.
            (e)   The applicant’s site plan shall show how off-street loading
will be able to be accomplished without obstructing driveways and without
intruding into buffer yards.
            (f)   Trash receptacles shall be provided outside the restaurant
for patron use.
            (g)   When the use is not open to the public, outdoor sign lighting
shall be turned off and other lighting shall be limited to what is necessary
for security.
            (h)   Parking–one space for every two seats or 15 spaces, whichever
is more restrictive. In addition, if curbside pickup is allowed, then two
additional spaces shall be provided for such purpose.
         (8)   E-8 Entertainment Facility. An entertainment facility shall
include a bowling alley, skating rink, billiard hall, indoor movie theatre,
live theatre, miniature golf course, arcades, or other similar uses, but not
including a use which meets the definition of adult entertainment, Use E-1.
            (a)   Parking–one space per three seats of capacity of the facility
or one space per 250 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater.
However, the following parking shall apply instead for a bowling alley: two
spaces per bowling lane, plus parking for other uses in the building.
         (9)   E-9 Financial Establishment. A financial establishment shall
include a bank, savings and loan association, credit union, or other financial
establishment.
            (a)   If a drive-in window is provided, a stacking area to
accommodate at least six vehicles shall be provided for each drive-in window.
            (b)   Where automated teller machines are provided, such facilities
shall be adequately lighted for security and safety.
            (c)   Parking–one space per 300 square feet of floor area, plus one
space per employee.
         (10)   E-10 Funeral Home. A funeral home where bodies are prepared for
burial and which is also used for visiting hours as part of a funeral. This
shall not include a cemetery, crematorium or mausoleum, unless the requirements
for such use are also met.
            (a)   Parking–one space for every four seats in the largest room,
plus one space per employee.
         (11)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast Inn. The use and occupancy of a detached
dwelling shall be permitted for accommodating transient guests for rent subject
to the following additional restrictions:
            (a)   Minimum lot area–1 acre for the first two guest rooms and
20,000 square feet for each additional guest room. In no case shall the lot
area be less than that required for single-family detached dwellings in which
the proposed guest house is located.
            (b)   At least one bathroom shall be provided for each two guest
rooms.
            (c)   External alterations, additions or changes to the exterior
structure shall be minimized except where required by any governmental agency
for safety reasons.
            (d)   The use shall be carried on primarily by members of the
immediate family which must reside on the premises.
            (e)   There shall be no separate kitchen or cooking facilities in
any guest room.
            (f)   The use of any amenities provided by the guest house such as
swimming pool or tennis courts shall be restricted in use to guests of the bed
and breakfast inn. The serving of meals shall be restricted to the guests of
the bed and breakfast inn, unless a restaurant use is also allowed in the
district and is approved.
            (g)   There shall be no use of show windows or display or
advertising visible outside the premises to attract guests other than a single,
non-internally illuminated sign which meets the regulations set forth in this
Ordinance and has a maximum sign area of 6 square feet per side, and a maximum
height of 6 feet.
            (h)   If the facility is served by an on-lot water supply system
and/or an on-lot wastewater disposal system, the applicant shall demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the County Health Department and the Board of Supervisors
that these on-lot facilities are adequate to serve the maximum number of guests
which could be housed at the facility at any one time.
            (i)   Only one principal building shall be allowed on the lot.
            (j)   Parking–one space for each rental room plus one space per
employee.
            (k)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a
street or a dwelling on another lot.
         (12)   E-12 Retail Store over 10,000 Square Feet. A retail
establishment with greater than 10,000 square feet of indoor building floor
area. If a lot also is regulated as Use E-20, then the requirements for a
shopping center shall also be met.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–3 acres, unless clause (b) below applies.
            (b)   If the lot includes more than 100,000 square feet of indoor
retail building floor area, then the following additional requirements shall be
met:
               1)   A minimum 60-feet wide buffer yard meeting §
503 and a 150 feet minimum building setback shall be maintained adjacent to a
lot line of an existing dwelling and any residential zoning district. Areas
used for the movement, loading or unloading of trucks between the hours of 10
p.m. and 6 a.m. shall be separated by a minimum of 150 feet of distance and a
landscaped berm with a minimum height of 4 feet, on the residential side, from
any lot line of an existing dwelling or a residential district.
               2)   A professional traffic study shall be required, meeting the
traffic study requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
               3)   A 10 acre minimum lot area shall be required.
            (c)   The use shall provide a trash storage area which shall be
screened from the street and adjacent properties by an enclosed solid fence
and/or decorative masonry wall at least 6 feet in height to prevent trash from
blowing from the area and to serve as a visual screen for the trash area.
            (d)   The applicant’s site plan shall show how off-street loading
will be able to be accomplished without obstructing driveways and without
intruding into buffer yards.
            (e)   The applicant shall provide evidence that any nighttime
loading and unloading operations will be able to comply with the noise
regulations of §
506.
            (f)   During hours when the use is not open to the public, sign
lighting shall be turned off and other lighting shall be limited to an
intensity necessary for security purposes.
            (g)   Parking–four and one-half spaces per 1,000 square feet of
indoor and outdoor retail floor area.
         (13)   E-13 Mini-Warehouse. A use involving the storage of primarily
household items and personal property of a type typically stored within a home,
within a building that is divided into numerous rental units.
            (a)   Such use shall be surrounded by a physical barrier, such as a
fence, measuring at least 6 feet in height and by a buffer strip at least 15
feet in width. The buffer strip shall be planted outside of the fence or other
barrier and shall consist of plants which will hide the fence from view from
the street or other properties. The buffer strip shall be maintained at all
times so that dead or diseased plants are replaced. The standards for buffer
yards as stated in Article 5 shall apply to the maintenance and guarantee for
the buffer strip.
            (b)   The minimum driveway width between buildings shall be 25
feet.
            (c)   No business activity other than leasing of storage units
shall be permitted.
            (d)   All storage shall be within enclosed buildings, except that
no more than 10 percent of the total storage area may be devoted to outdoor
parking spaces for boats, cars, recreational vehicles, or other noncommercial
vehicles. Stored vehicles shall not interfere with traffic movement through the
complex.
            (e)   Explosive, radioactive, or highly flammable materials and
chemicals shall not be stored within the units.
            (f)   Parking–one space for each employee, plus one space per 25
rental units, plus spaces for storage of vehicles and boats.
            (g)   Outdoor lighting during hours when the facility is not open
to customers shall be limited to lighting necessary for security.
            (h)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view from a
dwelling or street.
         (14)   E-14 Motel or Hotel. A building or group of buildings
containing rooms for rent for the accommodation of transient guests plus a
restaurant.
            (a)   The use must have direct access to a collector or arterial
street.
            (b)   Units in such facilities shall contain a minimum of 200
square feet of floor space, with a minimum of two rooms; a bedroom and a
separate bathroom equipped with a flush toilet, a lavatory basin, and a bathtub
or shower.
            (c)   Parking–one space per rental unit, plus one space per one and
one-tenths employee. If there is an associated public restaurant, the parking
requirements for eating place shall also be met.
            (d)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view from a
dwelling or street.
         (15)   Reserved.
         (16)   E-16 Recreational Campsites. A lot on which two or more
campsites are located, established or maintained for occupancy as temporary
living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. A campsite shall be a plot
of ground intended for the accommodation of either a recreational vehicle,
tent, or other individual camping unit on a temporary basis. Such campsites
shall be rented by the day, week or month only and no person can reside in any
campsite anywhere in the camp for more than 120 days per year.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–10 acres.
            (b)   Maximum density–10 campsites per acre.
            (c)   Sewage disposal facilities shall be satisfactory to the Bucks
County Department of Health.
            (d)   A minimum of 40 percent of the site shall be kept as open
space, exclusive of buffer yards. A buffer yard meeting §
503 shall be provided adjacent to any dwelling. Vehicles, buildings and vehicle
parking shall be 100 feet from all street and property lines.
            (e)   Parking–one space per campsite.
         (17)   E-17 Repair Shop. Any business for the repair of consumer
goods, not including repair of automobiles, vehicles, or motorcycles, and not
including the repair of other items which, as part of the repair process,
causes noise, fumes, or other disturbances to emanate to the property line of
the establishment. Upholsterer shall be included within this use.
            (a)   Parking–one space per 300 square feet of floor area.
            (b)   Chemical and chemical waste storage is prohibited from the
100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (18)   E-18 Retail Trade and Retail Services. This shall include an
establishment engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public for
personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale
of such goods and which has an indoor building floor area of 10,000 square feet
or less per establishment; or establishments primarily engaged in providing
services involving the care of a person or his or her apparel. Such use may
include barber, beautician, laundry and dry cleaning, shoe repair, tailor,
photographer and travel agency.
            (a)   Products produced on the premises shall be sold primarily on
the premises.
            (b)   Taverns, eating places, and stores with a gross floor area in
excess of 10,000 square feet are not included in Use E-18.
            (c)   A retail facility may have associated with it as an accessory
use a warehouse for the storage of goods and supplies which are sold or used at
the retail facility. The amount of warehouse space to be permitted shall be in
accordance with the needs of the retail use and shall not detract from the
retail nature of the use or from the area in which it is located.
            (d)   Parking–one space per 250 square feet of floor area.
            (e)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a
dwelling or street.
         (19)   E-19 Gas Station. A service station shall be limited to a
building or group of buildings for the sale of petroleum products, tires, and
automotive service. If a convenience store is also included, then the
requirements for Use E-5 shall also be met.
            (a)   Minimum lot width–200 feet shall be provided along each
street on which the lot abuts.
            (b)   Minimum lot area–1 acre.
            (c)   Access to roads shall be at least 50 feet from the
intersection of any streets.
            (d)   Such use may only be located on an arterial road or collector
road.
            (e)   All pumps, lifts, and other service facilities shall be
located not closer than 35 feet to any property or street line.
            (f)   No vehicle shall be stored in the open for a period exceeding
7 consecutive days, unless screened from adjacent roads and residential
properties.
            (g)   All lubricating, making of minor repairs, or similar
activities shall be performed in an enclosed building.
            (h)   Separate accessways shall be provided for the safe and
convenient egress and ingress of motor vehicles. No accessway shall exceed 35
feet in width nor be less than 15 feet in width.
            (i)   Access to the street shall be physically controlled by a
concrete curbing at least 8 inches in height and by a 10-feet wide landscaped
strip separating the street from the service station parking area.
            (j)   All automobile parts and similar articles shall be stored
within a building.
            (k)   Junk vehicles or wrecked vehicles shall not be stored within
view of a dwelling or public street for more than 24 hours.
            (l)   The sale or rental of automobiles, trucks, or other motor
vehicles shall be prohibited.
            (m)   Convenience shopping shall be permitted as an accessory use
to the sale of petroleum products, provided that it does not involve more than
1,000 square feet of indoor retail floor area. The use may be combined with a
restaurant, provided the requirements for a restaurant are also met.
            (n)   Service stations designed to offer to the public self-service
facilities for dispensing of gasoline and other motor vehicle fuels shall meet
the following conditions:
               1)   At least one qualified attendant shall be on duty while the
station is open to the public, whose primary function shall be to supervise,
observe and control dispensing of flammable or combustible liquids.
               2)   The attendant shall be situated so as to have a clear view
of the dispensing operations.
               3)   A voice communication system such as, but not limited to,
an intercom system shall be provided so as to allow direct voice communications
at all times between the person dispensing flammable or combustible liquids and
the attendant.
               4)   Emergency controls, including the main power shut-off shall
be conspicuously posted in the immediate vicinity of the principle control or
the dispenser island.
               5)   Instructions for the operation of the dispensers shall be
conspicuously posted on either the dispenser or the dispenser island.
               6)   A list of emergency procedures and instructions shall be
conspicuously posted in the immediate vicinity of the principal control
location of the attendant.
               7)   At least one fire extinguisher shall be provided for each
pump island and the extinguisher shall be located within 25 feet of each pump
island.
               8)   Warning signs with the following messages or closely
similar text shall be placed in a conspicuous place with each sign indicating
“Warning: a) It is unlawful to dispense gasoline into any portable container
unless the container meet standards of the Fire Marshal; b) No smoking; c) Stop
motor.”
            (o)   Parking–two spaces for each service bay plus one space per
employee. If there is retail sales, there shall be one space per 200 square
feet of floor area devoted to sales. Any restaurant shall also meet parking
requirements for a restaurant. Retail parking spaces shall be located to
minimize interference with ingress and ingress to the site and with stacking at
fuel pumps.
            (p)   Chemical and chemical waste storage is prohibited from the
100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (20)   E-20 Shopping Center. A building or a group of buildings that
primarily includes retail sales with a minimum of three retail establishments,
and which may include offices, day care centers, financial institutions and
personal care uses, and which may also include other commercial uses allowed in
the applicable district if such other uses are allowed and approved. Use E-20
shall be designed as a planned complex of related structures with fully
coordinated interior and exterior traffic and pedestrian circulation patterns,
and shall be subject to the following additional criteria:
            (a)   Minimum lot area–3 acres.
            (b)   Minimum lot width building measured at the front yard minimum
setback line–300 feet.
            (c)   Shopping centers may only be located on an arterial or
collector road.
            (d)   The shopping center shall be constructed in accordance with
an overall plan and designed with a single architectural style appropriate to
traditional historic styles of Upper Bucks County and coordinated styles of
signs.
            (e)   The distance, at the closest point, between any two buildings
or groups of units of attached buildings shall not be less than 20 feet.
            (f)   Regulations dealing with lighting, parking, outdoor storage,
buffering, points of access, signs, landscaping, and other applicable
regulations set forth herein shall be met.
            (g)   All establishments in the shopping center must have vehicular
service access either from an individual service yard or from a common service
area serving several establishments. All such service areas must be segregated
from public areas and screened from public view.
            (h)   Within a tract to be used for a shopping center, subdivision
of the tract into individual lots is not permitted.
            (i)   All structures in a shopping center shall be connected either
as part of one large structure or by means of pedestrian ways or walkways on
which pedestrians can move from one building to another without interference
from vehicular traffic.
            (j)   A minimum 60 feet wide buffer yard meeting §
503 and a 150 feet minimum building setback shall be maintained adjacent to a
lot line of an existing dwelling and any residential zoning district. Areas
used for the movement, loading or unloading of trucks between the hours of 10
p.m. and 6 a.m. shall be separated by a minimum of 150 feet of distance and a
landscaped berm with a minimum height of 4 feet, on the residential side, from
any lot line of an existing dwelling or a residential district.
            (k)   A professional traffic study shall be required, meeting the
traffic study requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
            (l)   The use shall provide trash storage areas which shall be
screened from the street and adjacent properties by an enclosed solid fence
and/or decorative masonry wall at least 6 feet in height to prevent trash from
blowing from the area and to serve as a visual screen for the trash area.
            (m)   The applicant’s site plan shall show how off-street loading
will be able to be accomplished without obstructing driveways and without
intruding into buffer yards.
            (n)   The applicant shall provide evidence that any nighttime
loading and unloading operations will be able to comply with the noise
regulations of §
506.
            (o)   During hours when the use is not open to the public, sign
lighting shall be turned off and other lighting shall be limited to an
intensity necessary for security purposes.
            (p)   Parking–four and one-half spaces per 1,000 square feet of
total indoor and outdoor floor area.
         (21)   E-21 Parking Lot or Garage. A lot with or without a structure
utilized for off-street parking by motor vehicles for a principle use located
on an adjacent parcel, or parcel located not more than 300 feet from the lot.
         (22)   E-22 Mobile Home and Accessory Sales. Sale of mobile/
manufactured homes and related parts, accessories, and other supplies.
            (a)   Parking–one off-street parking space for each 100 square feet
of floor area devoted to retail sales of parts and accessories, plus one
additional space for each full time employee.
            (b)   A mobile/manufactured home offered for sale or lease shall
meet principal building setbacks around the edges of the lot.
         (23)   E-23 Tavern. This use means an establishment which sells
alcoholic beverages for on- premises consumption and off-premises consumption,
and which is licensed by the State of Pennsylvania for such purpose, and which
involves alcoholic beverage sales making up a majority of the business’ total
sales. This use shall meet the following additional requirements:
            (a)   Minimum building setback from residential districts–100 feet.
Minimum parking lot setback from residential districts–50 feet, unless a more
restrictive provision is established by another Section of this Ordinance.
            (b)   Parking–no less than one off-street parking space for every
two seats intended for use by patrons, plus one space for every employee.
            (c)   Outdoor lighting shall be limited to what is necessary for
security purposes during hours when the tavern is not open to customers.
            (d)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a
street or dwelling.
         (24)   E-24 Treatment Center. This use shall include a facility
involving overnight housing of any of the following: (a) persons undergoing
criminal rehabilitation (such as a criminal halfway house), and which is not a
prison, or (b) persons undergoing treatment for a current addiction to a
controlled substance that was used in an illegal manner or alcohol, or (c)
persons with a type of mental illness or other behavior that causes the person
to be known to be a threat to the physical safety of others.
            (a)   The applicant shall provide a written description of types of
conditions that will cause persons to be housed and/or treated within the
facility. Any future additions to this list shall require an additional
Township zoning approval.
            (b)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Board of
Supervisors that the use will involve adequate on-site supervision and security
measures to protect public safety.
The Board of Supervisors may place reasonable conditions upon the use to
protect public safety, such as conditions on the types of residents, types of
persons who receive counseling or treatment on-site or who are not residents,
and security measures.
            (c)   A minimum of one parking space shall be required per on-site
employee plus one space for every two residents.
            (d)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a
street or dwelling.
         (25)   E-25 Betting Use. This use shall mean a facility where
legalized gambling occurs, beyond the State lottery and beyond “small games of
chance” that are allowed under State law.
            (a)   A minimum 60 feet wide buffer yard meeting §
503 and a 150 feet minimum building setback shall be maintained adjacent to any
existing dwelling and any residential zoning district.
            (b)   A professional traffic study shall be required, meeting the
traffic study requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
            (c)   A 10 acre minimum lot area shall be required.
            (d)   The use shall need conditional use approval from the Board of
Supervisors, and approval by the applicable agencies/boards of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
            (e)   A minimum of one parking space shall be required for every
gambling machine plus parking required for each other use on the lot, such as a
restaurant.
            (f)   Outdoor lighting shall be limited to what is necessary for
security purposes during hours when the betting facility is not open to
customers.
            (g)   Any outdoor trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a
street or dwelling.
         (26)   E-26 Motor Vehicle Racetrack. This use shall include a course
or track that is used by persons in two or more motor vehicles at a time to
competitively race.
            (a)   Motor Vehicle Racetracks shall be permitted by conditional
use in the PI Zoning District in accordance with (b), (c) and (d) below.
            (b)   Sections
502 (Outdoor Illumination),
503 (Buffer Yard Requirements),
504,
505 (Parking Design Standards),
508.1 (Smoke, Ash, Dust, Fumes, Vapors, Odors, Gases),
508.2 (Noise) and
801 shall apply.
            (c)   Minimum lot size requirements:
               (i)   Go cart and quarter midget–20 Acres
               (ii)   Motor cycle and motocross–50 Acres
               (iii)   Stock car oval track–100 Acres
               (iv)   Quarter mile drag strip–120 Acres
               (v)   All other types of motor vehicle drag racing not listed
above–100 Acres.
            (d)   Parking sufficiency shall be demonstrated at the Conditional
Use hearing.
         (27)   E-27 Firearms Target Range. Reserved for future use.
      F.   Utilities and Public Services.
         (1)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility. A transformer station, pumping
station, relay station, electrical substation, telephone substation, water
treatment plant, sewage treatment plant, and any similar public service or
private utility, or a building needed for utility, but not including solid
waste facilities. This use shall not include any use that is regulated under
Use F-5.
            (a)   The following minimum setbacks from all property lines shall
be provided:
               1)   Water tower–not less than one and one-half times the height
of the tower, except such additional setback shall not apply if the adjacent
lot is in a HC or PI District, then the principal building setback shall apply.
               2)   Electrical substation–50 feet.
               3)   Water supply well–25 feet.
               4)   Sewer pumping station–
                  a)   Front yard–legal right-of-way.
                  b)   Side and rear yard–15 feet.
               5)   Water treatment facility–100 feet.
               6)   Water pumping station–
                  a)   Front yard–legal right-of-way.
                  b)   Side and rear yard–15 feet.
               7)   Sewage treatment plant–200 feet.
               8)   All other utility operating facility uses–50 feet.
            (b)   Minimum lot sizes shall be adequate to accommodate the above
setbacks, parking requirements, and other building requirements, but shall not
be less than the minimum lot size required for the zoning district within which
the utility operating facility is located, except that a lot that only includes
a water supply well or stormwater facility and has a deed restriction against
other uses shall have no minimum lot area and no minimum lot width.
            (c)   No public business office or any storage yard or storage
building shall be operated in connection with the utility operating facility
use within the WS, AD, RP, RR, DD, VC, or VR Zoning Districts.
            (d)   No parking shall be permitted within the required setbacks.
            (e)   No zoning permit shall be required for utilities to be
located in public streets or rights-of-way.
            (f)   A buffer area meeting §
503 at least 25 feet in width shall be required for electric substations, water
treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations between
such facility and any: 1) street, and 2) abutting lot line.
            (g)   If a sewage treatment plant will have a wastewater effluent
discharge into the Cooks Creek or its tributaries, a special exception shall be
required. To obtain the special exception, the applicant shall prove that all
reasonable alternatives to a stream discharge have been considered and found to
be infeasible, such as spray or drip irrigation, and that all State and Federal
water quality requirements will be met. It is not permissible to degrade the
water quality of the receiving stream. The Zoning Hearing Board may require
monitoring of the effluent and water quality of the receiving body.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (2)   F-2 Emergency Services. Shall include police, fire, ambulance,
rescue, and similar emergency services.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–1 acre for facilities without a community
room.
            (b)   Minimum lot area–2 acres for facilities with a community
room.
            (c)   Parking–two spaces for each fire truck; if community room,
one space for every four seats of capacity in main meeting room.
         (3)   F-3 Terminal. A railway station or bus station/terminal.
            (a)   Parking to be determined by the Board of Supervisors.
         (4)   F-4 Essential Services. Essential services shall include the
erection, alteration or maintenance by public utilities or by municipal or
other governmental agencies of structures, ponds, spillways, drainage swales,
underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission
systems, including poles, wire, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
traffic signals, telephone lines, fire hydrants, railroad lines and other
similar equipment and accessories reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utility or governmental agency or facilities
for the public health, safety and welfare. This term shall not include any use
that is regulated under Use F-1 Utility Operating Facility or Use F-5 and shall
not include any use that includes a building.
         (5)   F-5 Commercial Communications Antennas/Towers. Shall mean
structures and accessory equipment buildings for the delivery of wireless
telecommunications or the broadcasting of radio or television signals.
            (a)   An applicant to construct a new commercial communications
tower shall present documentary evidence regarding the need to locate the
facility to provide service within the Township. For cellular communications,
this shall include showing the coverage areas of existing towers.
            (b)   An applicant proposing to erect a new commercial
communications tower shall provide documentary evidence that a legitimate
attempt has been made to locate the antennas on existing towers, buildings or
structures. Such evidence shall include a radio frequency engineering analysis
of the potential suitability of existing buildings or structures in the search
area for such antennas. The applicant shall document that reasonable efforts
have been made to secure use of such existing towers, buildings or structures
before proposing a completely new tower.
            (c)   When an applicant to construct a new commercial
communications tower demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board of
Supervisors that suitable locations on existing buildings or structures either
do not exist or are not available, the applicant may erect a new
telecommunications tower. Any new tower shall meet the following requirements:
               1)   Minimum lot size–3 acres. An antenna/tower may be on the
same lot as lot as another principal use.
               2)   Minimum setback of tower and equipment from any property
line–one and one-half times height of tower.
               3)   Maximum total height above the ground–200 feet.
               4)   An 8-foot high security fence shall completely surround the
tower/pole (and guy wires, if used) and any ground level equipment building.
               5)   The following buffer plantings shall be located around the
perimeter of the security fence:
                  a)   An evergreen screen shall be planted, unless existing
trees and shrubs will be preserved that will serve the same purpose. Existing
trees shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible, unless such species
are on a State list of invasive species.
                  b)   Screening shall conform to §
503 of this Ordinance.
               6)   A new freestanding tower shall not be allowed in the SD
Scenic Overlay District.
            (d)   The Township shall periodically require the applicant to
provide a certification from a professional engineer certifying the structural
integrity of the tower, considering its ability to resist high winds as
provided in the Township Construction Codes.
            (e)   A commercial communications tower or antenna that have not
been in use for commercial communications purposes for 6 months shall be
removed completely within 90 days afterwards. Upon removal, the site shall be
cleaned, restored, and revegetated to blend with the existing surrounding
vegetation. A tower owner shall post a bond or other financial security in a
form acceptable to the Township at time of zoning approval to cover the cost of
tower removal. Any and all additional or unanticipated costs of the tower
removal, including the full cost in the event the bond has expired or
insufficient, shall be the responsibility of the owner of the tower.
            (f)   Collocation Required. Authorization for the construction of
any new commercial communications tower shall be conditioned on agreement by
the tower owner that other commercial communications service providers will be
permitted to collocate antennas on the proposed tower and to collocate
equipment buildings within the limits of structural and radio frequency
engineering requirements and at rates which reflect the fair market value for
such services. As part of any application for new tower approval, the applicant
shall document the extent to which additional antennas which could be
accommodated as well as the ability to accommodate the equipment building(s)
for such antennas within the equipment compound.
               1)   Once a tower is approved, additional antenna and equipment
cabinets/buildings may be added as a by right use, provided that the height of
the tower does not exceed the height that was approved.
            (g)   The equipment compound shall have access to a public street
by means of a driveway, which may be stone.
            (h)   Security lighting shall be shielded downward and inward
toward the equipment compound to prevent direct light or glare for encroaching
onto neighboring properties and streets.
            (i)   All equipment, including emergency generators, shall be
located within a soundproofed structure, such that there will be no impact on
existing sound levels measured at a residential property lines.
            (j)   Antennas may be attached to existing nonresidential buildings
and structures as a permitted by right use, provided the following requirements
are met. Otherwise, antennas shall be regulated in the same manner as a tower:
               1)   An equipment building or cabinet shall be allowed for each
provider. Any building shall meet minimum setbacks for a principal building.
               2)   Antenna may extend 20 feet from an existing building, water
tank, agricultural silo, electric transmission tower, steeple of a place of
worship, or similar structure, other than a dwelling. An antenna that is
visible from a street and is taller than 10 feet shall not be located on a
building or structure that is listed on a historic register or eligible for
listing on a historic register.
               3)   Landscaping shall buffer any equipment building that is at
ground level and is visible from a dwelling.
            (k)   In addition, an amateur “ham” radio antenna shall be a
permitted by right use in all districts and shall not be required to meet the
other requirements of Use F-5. The maximum height above the ground of an
amateur ham radio antenna shall be 75 feet. The antenna shall be setback from
property lines a distance that is equal of the height of the antenna itself.
         (6)   F-6 Airport or Heliport. A facility for the takeoff and landing
of airplanes or helicopters, other than ultralight aircraft which are not
regulated by this Ordinance.
            (a)   Facilities for aircraft must meet the requirements of the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation.
            (b)   Minimum lot area–
               1)   Heliport–10 acres.
               2)   Airport–100 acres.
            (c)   The applicant shall prove that runways will be oriented to
minimize hazards and risks to buildings on other lots. Each end of the runway
shall be setback a minimum of 300 feet from the lot line of any dwelling and
100 feet from a street or any other lot line. Each landing area of a heliport
shall be setback a minimum of 300 feet from the lot line of any dwelling and a
minimum of 150 feet from any street or any other lot line.
            (d)   Parking to be determined by the Board of Supervisors.
         (7)   F-7 Commercial Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. Solar power
operations designed to produce electrical energy primarily for the transmission
and off-site consumption of electricity, provided:
            (a)   Such uses shall have a minimum lot size of 5 acres.
            (b)   All structures and elements associated with the facilities
shall be setback from property lines by at least 70 feet.
            (c)   The maximum height of any ground-mount solar photovoltaic
(PV) arrays or solar thermal (ST) heliostat facilities shall not exceed 20
feet. The maximum height of a solar thermal (ST) receiver tower (power tower)
shall be limited by setbacks equal to one and one-tenths times total height
measured from the tower base to lot lines, power lines, and road right-of-ways.
            (d)   All on-site electrical distribution lines shall be placed
underground.
            (e)   The array field shall be bordered by a Type 4 Buffer (see §
503), where the fence shall provide not only a visual barrier but also a
barrier to prevent public intrusion.
            (f)   A commercial solar-powered generating facility, and all
materials, structures, and accessory equipment installed with that facility,
that has not been in use for commercial generation purposes for 6 months shall
be removed completely within 90 days of the issuance of an enforcement action.
The Township may require evidence of energy production upon request. Upon
removal, the site shall be cleaned, restored, and revegetated to blend with the
existing surrounding vegetation. A commercial solar-powered generating facility
owner, shall post a bond or other financial security in a form acceptable to
the Township at the time of conditional use approval to cover the cost of
equipment removal. Any and all additional or unanticipated costs of the
facility removal, including the full cost in the event the bond has expired or
is insufficient, shall be the responsibility of the owner of the solar
facility.
            (g)   Arrays of PV panels or mirrored heliostats shall not
constitute impervious surface, unless the underlying ground is covered with
impervious surface.
            (h)   Engineering plans/specifications shall be submitted for
review by the Township Engineer prior to issuance of a building permit.
            (i)   Applications for commercial solar-powered generating
facilities shall be accompanied by an impact analysis with the criteria set
forth in §
806 of this Ordinance.
            (j)   Such uses shall not include small (<1kW) panel installations
erected to power a single device.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
         (8)   F-8 Commercial Wind-Powered Generating Facilities. A facility
designed to produce electrical energy primarily for transmission and off-site
consumption.
            (a)   Minimum lot size–5 acres.
            (b)   A commercial wind turbine, and all materials, structures, and
accessory equipment installed with that turbine, that has not been in use for
commercial generation purposes for 6 months shall be completely removed within
90 days of the issuance of an enforcement notice. The Township may require
evidence of energy production upon request. Upon removal, the site shall be
cleaned, restored and re-vegetated to blend with the existing surrounding
vegetation. A turbine owner shall post a bond or other financial security in a
form acceptable to the Township at the time of zoning approval to cover the
cost of equipment removal. Any and all additional or unanticipated costs of the
turbine removal, including costs in the event the bond has expired or is
insufficient, shall be the responsibility of the owner the commercial wind-
powered generating facility.
            (c)   Applications for commercial wind-powered generating
facilities shall be accompanied by an impact analysis with the criteria set
forth in §
805 of this Ordinance.
            (d)   A commercial wind-powered generating facility is permitted to
have turbines that have a swept area greater than 200m2.
            (e)   There shall be no power (kW) limit on the rated power output
of a turbine.
            (f)   Setbacks shall equal one and one-tenths times total height
(hub height + one blade length) measured from the tower base to lot lines,
power lines, and road right-of-ways.
            (g)   The system components and structure shall meet applicable
State and Federal (including FAA) regulations. The lowest point of the swept
area shall be at least 30 feet above grade.
            (h)   To prevent unauthorized climbing, climbing pegs shall be
removed from the lower 10 feet of the tower, or ladder access shall be
physically restricted.
            (i)   A “danger, high voltage” sign shall be installed where it is
clearly visible by persons standing near the tower base. No other signs shall
be allowed on towers or turbines, other than the manufacturer’s name.
            (j)   Noise associated with wind turbines shall not exceed the
noise levels as listed in §
508 of this Ordinance, except that, designated sound levels may be exceeded
during short-term events, such as utility outages and storms. Wind turbine
systems shall comply with all other performance standards as set forth in §
508 of this Ordinance.
            (k)   Engineering plans/specifications shall be submitted for
review by the Township Engineer prior to issuance of a building permit. Tower
and foundation drawings and specifications shall be submitted to the Township
by the manufacturer and certified to meet Telecommunications Industry
Association Standard ANSI/TIA-222-G (as amended, updated, or supplanted) or
equivalent standards. Foundation specifications are to be designed for the
least suitable soil type within 500 feet of the proposed tower location.
            (l)   All wind turbine energy systems shall be equipped with over-
speed controls.
            (m)   Applications must include descriptions of the safety features
and sound emissions of the turbine and show compliance with IEC61400-12-1 and
IEC61400-11, as amended, updated, or supplanted.
            (n)   Installation of a wind turbine system shall comply with the
National Electrical Code (NEC). Applications must be accompanied by a single-
line drawing of the electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a
determination that the manner of installation conforms to the NEC.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
      G.   Industrial Uses.
         (1)   G-1 Salvage Facility. An area of land that involves outdoor
storage of two or more discarded, junked, inoperable or disassembled motor
vehicles, appliances, boats, mobile homes, similar items and/or bulk outdoor
storage of parts thereof, and which may include the salvage of parts from such
items for resale, but which shall not regulate routine accessory outdoor
storage of agricultural tractors and implements.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–7 acres.
            (b)   Minimum lot width–200 feet at street line.
            (c)   Minimum setback from all property lines–100 feet.
            (d)   All storage and all activities shall be entirely enclosed by
a solid fence or wall, at least 8 feet high set back at least 25 feet from all
property boundaries and street rights-of- ways and constructed of weather-
resistant plank boards or decorative masonry, with access only through solid
gates. Such fence or wall shall be kept in good repair and neatly maintained.
This 25-feet setback shall be increased to 60 feet if it is adjacent to a
residential district. Fencing and walls shall not be constructed of sheet metal
or junk.
            (e)   A dense evergreen buffer shall be provided on the outside
perimeter of the fenced area. Evergreens shall have an initial height of 5 feet
and be planted in staggered rows to allow room for future growth, in such a
manner as to create a solid visual screen at least 7 feet in height within 3
years.
            (f)   The contents of such use shall not be placed to a total
height greater than the 12 feet.
            (g)   The storage of toxic chemicals shall be prohibited.
Batteries, fuel and similar hazardous substances shall be kept on an impervious
floor that prevents spills or runoff into the ground. All fuel, antifreeze, air
conditioner fluid, oil and similar toxic chemicals shall be removed from
vehicles or parts separated from vehicles.
            (h)   Dumping of trash or land fill operations and burning of any
materials is specifically prohibited.
            (i)   The applicant shall prove that sufficient measures will be in
place to prevent groundwater contamination.
            (j)   Parking–one space per employee plus five additional spaces
per acre.
            (k)   Each tire storage area shall be separated from each other
tire storage area by a minimum of 100 feet. Each tire storage area shall not
have a height greater than 12 feet and shall not cover more than 100 square
feet of ground area.
            (l)   Driveways shall be kept clear at all times throughout the
salvage facility that are appropriate for use by fire trucks. Such driveways
shall have a minimum width of 15 feet.
            (m)   Any crushing operation shall require a distinct special
exception approval and shall meet the noise requirements of §
508.
            (n)   Vehicles and other material shall not be stored within the
100-year floodplain, any riparian buffers or wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (o)   The Township shall have the right to inspect the premises
annually and can require the owner to provide an assessment of possible
environmental contamination if the Township has reasons to believe that
environmental hazards may exist.
            (p)   Surface water shall not be allowed to stand in a manner that
would harbor insects.
            (q)   A traffic impact study shall be required, meeting the
requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
            (r)   Chemical and chemical waste storage is prohibited from the
100-year floodplain, all riparian buffers, and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (2)   G-2 Building Materials Sale and Equipment Storage Yards.
Establishments such as lumber yards and those offering for sale finished
products used in building construction such as concrete and metal pipes and
rental and storage of construction equipment:
            (a)   The rental of construction equipment is permitted.
            (b)   Millworking is permitted as an accessory use.
            (c)   Storage yards shall be fully enclosed by fencing and
landscaped according to the buffer yard requirements of §
503.
            (d)   The storage of flammable or toxic gases and liquids and the
production and mixing of asphalt and concrete are prohibited. Material shall
not be stored in the 100-year floodplain or in any riparian buffers or wetland.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (e)   Parking–one space per 250 square feet of floor area devoted
to sales, plus one space per on-site employee.
         (3)   G-3 Contractor Services. Offices and shops for contractors such
as builders, electricians, plumbers, masons, painters, landscapers, roofers, or
similar contractors.
            (a)   Parking–one space per employee, plus one space per company
vehicle that is parked on-site.
            (b)   Storage and/or discharge of waste or by-products is
prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (4)   G-4 Food Processing. Establishments engaged in food processing,
packing, canning of meat, fish, dairy and other food products as well as the
manufacture and packaging of nonalcoholic beverages.
            (a)   The use shall not result in discharge of effluent to the
Cooks Creek or its tributaries. No discharge of wastewater or effluent from
food processing shall be permitted off of the lot without all applicable
approvals.
            (b)   Parking–one space per 500 square feet of floor area.
            (c)   Storage and/or discharge of waste or by-products is
prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (5)   G-5 Fuel Storage and Distribution. Establishments primarily
engaged in fuel storage and distribution, not including gas service stations:
            (a)   Minimum lot area–5 acres.
            (b)   The facility and accessory storage areas shall be setback a
minimum of 100 feet from the ultimate street right-of-way and from all other
property lines.
            (c)   No retail sales will be permitted on the premises.
            (d)   Parking–one space per employee, plus one space per company
vehicle stored on the premises.
            (e)   This use shall be setback a minimum of 1,000 feet from a
residential district.
            (f)   The applicant shall provide an impact study analyzing the
measures that will be used to protect groundwater, surface water and to avoid
nuisances and hazards.
            (g)   Storage and/or discharge of waste or by-products is
prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (6)   G-6 Manufacturing. Establishments engaged in the mechanical
production, processing, cleaning, and testing of finished goods or the chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products, including the
assembling of component parts, manufacturing of products, and the blending of
materials such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins, or liquors. This shall
include a Machine Shop. This use shall not include any use that is listed as a
separate use.
            (a)   Parking–one space per 500 square feet of floor area.
            (b)   The environmental, hazard, nuisance and noise requirements of
this Ordinance shall apply.
            (c)   The use shall not result in discharge of effluent to the
Cooks Creek or its tributaries. No discharge of effluent, wastewater or rinse
water shall be permitted off of the lot without all applicable approvals.
            (d)   No storage, use, loading or unloading of hazardous substances
and no manufacturing shall occur within the 100-year floodplain, any riparian
buffers or wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (7)   G-7 Quarry. Shall include extraction of materials from the
ground, such as sand, clay, shale, gravel, topsoil, stone and similar
materials.
            (a)   General Requirements.
               1)   All applications for zoning permits or annual renewal
permits for quarries shall be made in writing by the owner, tenant, vendee
under contract of sale on a form supplied by the Township, which shall be filed
with the Zoning Officer. The applications shall be accompanied by plans and
other materials to show compliance with the following provisions and
regulations:
                  a)   There shall be a berm of minimum height of 15 feet and
maximum height of 50 feet surrounding the entire property site. Berms will be
required along existing quarry faces to the extent which the Board of
Supervisors determines is feasible. The slope of the sides of the berm shall
not exceed a 3:1 ratio. Berms shall be planted and dusted, and erosion control
measures shall be taken as may be approved by the County Conservation District.
Berms shall begin at a point no closer to a street than the ultimate right-of-
way line. No berms shall be constructed closer than 15 feet to a district in
which extraction operations are not permitted. Planting of the berms and yard
areas shall be sufficient to screen the quarry extraction operations. Both
planting and berm construction shall be according to a plan approved by the
Board of Supervisors which shall include a reasonable timetable for completion.
Such planting shall consist of evergreens of such species and size as will
produce, within 3 years, a complete all season visual screen of at least 8 feet
in height.
                  b)   A chain link type fence at least 8 feet in height
surmounted by three strands of barbed wire, shall be required to surround the
entire within the setback area at a point no closer than the ultimate right-of-
way line to be maintained in a constant state of good repair. Appropriate
warning signs shall be mounted or posted along the fence at intervals of not
more than 100 feet.
                  c)   An adequate internal circulation pattern of driveways
shall be maintained between the excavation sites and processing areas. Use of
public streets shall not be permitted for hauling between extractive and
processing areas except where required in connection with such pattern, or for
weighing or for access of vehicular traffic originating from or destined to
points beyond the limits of such excavation sites and processing areas. Access
shall be regulated in accordance with the Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance.
                  d)   No slope shall be maintained exceeding the normal
limiting angle of slippage of the material in which the excavation or
extraction is being made. No undercutting shall be permitted within the setback
area.
                  e)   All operations shall be conducted with sufficient
lateral support to be safe with respect to: (i) hazard to persons, (ii)
physical damage to adjacent lands or improvements, or (iii) damage to any
street, sidewalk, parking area, or utility by reason of slide, sinking, or
collapse.
                  f)   Stock piles shall not exceed 75 feet in height from the
original ground surface and shall not be located within the setback provided
for in this Ordinance. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to prevent any
materials or waste deposited upon any stock pile from being washed, blown, or
otherwise transferred off the site by normal causes or forces.
                  g)   All drainage from the site of extraction operations
shall be controlled by dikes, barriers, or drainage structures sufficient to
prevent any silt, debris, or other loose materials from filling any existing
drainage course or encroaching on streets or adjacent property, or entering
into any stream, pond, well, subterranean stream or other body of water.
                  h)   The use shall prove compliance with State blasting
regulations.
                  i)   All off-street parking spaces shall be provided as the
Township Board of Supervisors shall determine as adequate to serve customers,
employees, visitors, and vehicles normally parked on the premises. No parking
shall be permitted in the front, side or rear yards except parking shall be
permitted behind any berm.
                  j)   All trucks carrying stone which travel on public roads
shall be covered so as to prevent stones from falling onto and damaging public
roads.
               2)   Any application for a zoning permit or an annual renewal
permit as hereinafter provided shall be accompanied by plans and other
information to satisfy the criteria set forth in clause (a) above and in
addition shall depict:
                  a)   Plan of general area within a ½ mile radius of the site
at scale of 500 feet or less to the inch with a 50-foot or less contour
interval to show:
                     i.   Existing data, including location of proposed site.
                     ii.   Land use pattern including building locations and
historical site of buildings, if any.
                     iii.   Roads, indicating major roads and showing width,
weight loads, types of surfaces and traffic data.
                     iv.   Existing and proposed uses of neighboring facilities
including:
                     v.   Subdivisions.
                     vi.   Parks, schools and places of worship.
                     vii.   Streets (new and reconstructed).
   viii. Other uses potentially affecting or affected by the proposed
extraction operation.
                  b)   Plan of proposed site at the scale of 100 feet or less
to the inch with a 10 feet or less contour interval to show:
                     i.   Basic data.
                     ii.   Soils and geology, with particular attention to
carbonate geology, if present.
                     iii.   Groundwater data and water courses.
                     iv.   Vegetation–with dominant species.
                     v.   Wind data–directions and percentage of time.
                     vi.   Proposed usage.
                     vii.   Final grading by contours.
   viii. Interior road pattern, its relation to operation yard and points of
ingress and egress to State and Township roads.
                     ix.   Location and estimated amount and description of
aggregate and overburden to be removed.
                     x.   Location of stock piles and present or proposed
heights.
                     xi.   Ultimate use and ownership of site after completion
of operation.
                     xii.   Source and amount of water if the proposal will use
water, as well as water pumping rates and associated cones of depression.
   xiii. Plan of operation showing–proposed tree screen locations. Soil
embankments for noise, dust and visual barriers and heights of soil mounds
method of and provision for disposition of excess water during operation
location and typical schedule of blasting machinery–type and noise. Safety
measures–monitoring of complaints.
               3)   Any application for an initial permit or for an annual
renewal permit as hereinafter provided shall be initially referred to the
Planning Commission for review and to the Township Engineer for review prior to
final action by the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors in acting
upon any original permit application or annual renewal permit application shall
take into account the following:
                  a)   Compliance with the requirements set forth in subclause
1)a) and b) above.
                  b)   The impact that the proposed operations would have upon
the health, safety and welfare of the community including specifically the
finding that the use will not impact adversely upon the following.
                  c)   Ground water and surface water supply impacts outside
the subject property.
                  d)   Ground vibrations.
                  e)   Noise.
                  f)   Dust dissemination.
                  g)   Ground, ground water, surface water and air
contamination by toxic, hazardous or other deleterious substances.
               4)   No permit for any extraction operation shall issue until
the applicant shall have first demonstrated to the Board of Supervisors that it
has obtained all other permits and approvals required from any other regulatory
agencies to conduct the extraction operation.
            (b)   Annual Renewal Permit.
               1)   Each operator/owner of extraction operations within the
Quarry District shall be required to apply for and obtain an annual renewal
permit during each year of its operation.
               2)   The renewal permit application must be received by the
Township along with the appropriate fee not less than 45 days prior to the
expiration of the then current permit.
               3)   The application shall include updated plans and other
materials showing the information required for the issuance of an original
permit.
               4)   The annual renewal permit shall issue upon the Board of
Supervisors’ being satisfied that the applicant has satisfied all of the
obligations required of the owner/operator for an original issue permit and
provided further that the criteria set forth in subclause 1) above are
satisfied.
            (c)   Fees. Applicants for zoning permits and annual renewal
permits for extraction operations shall pay a fee which shall be in accordance
with the fee schedule as may be from time to time adopted and amended by the
Township, provided, however, that the fee for the zoning permit or annual
renewal permit for extraction operations may not be increased by more than 10
percent per annum over the fee in effect during the previous year.
            (d)   Rehabilitation and Conservation Requirements. The following
provisions shall apply to all extraction operations:
               1)   The owner, operator, lessee of any extraction operation
shall, at the time of application for a zoning permit submit to the Township
its reclamation plan as submitted to DEP. No permit shall issue where said
reclamation plan provides for quarrying in areas of the site not permitted by
this Ordinance.
               2)   Along with said plan, the applicant shall include a
timetable for the reclamation proposed for the site in general with an actual
timetable for the reclamation proposed for the site in general with an actual
timetable for reclamation of slopes as may be found reasonable by the Board of
Supervisors within the setback areas.
               3)   The owner, lessee, or operator of any extraction operation
within the Township shall, within 6 months from the date of this Ordinance or
receipt of a zoning permit authorizing said extraction operation, whichever is
the latter, submit a plan which shall include descriptions and plans for
suitable after-conditions or after-uses for all the land affected.
               4)   Plans for the rehabilitation uses may include the following
after-uses among others:
                  a)   Open areas suitably graded and covered with suitable
shrubs, grasses, or trees.
                  b)   Recreational land, ponds, and lakes.
                  c)   Agriculture of any type.
                  d)   Sites for residential use.
               5)   Rehabilitation shall commence within 1 year following the
completion or the discontinuance for a period of 1 year of any extraction
operation (or the completion of the excavation of a portion of an entire
operation which can feasibly be restored separately from other portions of the
operation and which is not necessary to the operation). Such rehabilitation
shall be completed within 5 years from the date rehabilitation commenced except
where a longer period of time is specifically authorized as part of the
rehabilitation program. Normal benching operations for sloping purposes shall
not be construed as requiring the commencement of rehabilitation.
               6)   Rehabilitation shall include removal of all debris,
temporary structures, and stock piles.
               7)   A layer of arable soil of sufficient depth to sustain
grass, shrubs, and trees shall be provided. Grass, shrubs, and trees native to
the area shall be planted thereon within 6 months after the providing of arable
soil.
               8)   Where the extraction operations are to be filled as part of
the rehabilitation process, no material shall be used for fill purposes other
than earth, stone, sand or concrete.
               9)   Water accumulation upon the site may be retained after the
completion of such operations where the excavation cannot be reasonably drained
by gravity flow, provided that adequate provision shall be made to avoid
stagnation, pollution and the danger of improperly controlled release of such
waters from the site.
               10)   Upon receipt of the rehabilitation plans, the Township
shall review the plans to insure compliance with all provisions of this
performance standard. Upon approval thereof, the Township shall issue a
certificate indicating approval of the plans as submitted or amended, and the
approved plans shall be permanently filed in the official records of the
Township.
               11)   Plans may be amended from time to time by approval of the
Township upon application of the owners.
               12)   Environmental Impacts. An environmental impact assessment
shall be submitted to the Township that details potential impacts to human
health and the environment from all aspects of the use, including, but not
limited to:
                  a)   Ground water and surface water.
                  b)   Air quality (particulate and toxic substances).
                  c)   Noise and odor beyond the property line.
                  d)   Vehicle traffic, particularly to consider the ability of
the road system to handle the truck traffic.
                  e)   Soil quality.
               13)   A performance bond or other financial security acceptable
to the Township shall be required by the Township. The amount of such security
shall be determined by the Township to be sufficient to insure the
rehabilitation of the affected site in accordance and compliance with the
standards for the issuance of any original permit or annual renewal permit in
accordance with the provisions of the plan of rehabilitation as submitted
pursuant to this Ordinance, if the bond posted with DEP or other agency is not
kept in force or if the Township is not named therein. The Township may require
that the bond posted with any State agency may not be withdrawn or reclaimed
without Township approval.
               14)   A traffic impact study shall be submitted at the time of
the conditional use application. Such study shall meet the requirements of the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance and shall analyze the ability of the
road base and widths of existing public streets to handle the resulting
traffic.
               15)   If blasting will be used, a pre-blast survey shall be
conducted of existing conditions of buildings and streets in the vicinity. A
copy of such survey shall be submitted to the Township.
            (e)   Inspection. To insure that the provisions of the above
Sections of this Ordinance are strictly satisfied, the Township shall have the
right to inspect any extraction operation within its boundaries. Such
inspection or inspections, as the Township may deem necessary, may be conducted
on any working day of the year, during regular business hours.
            (f)   Hours of Operation. No extraction operation or machinery
connected with processing, shipping or crushing shall operate between the hours
of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m.
            (g)   Area and Dimensional Requirements.
Minimum lot area                           25 acres
Maximum building coverage                  .25
Maximum impervious surface ratio           .25
Minimum lot width at building setback line 300 feet
Yards:
   Front                                125 feet*
   Side (each/total)                    125 feet**
   Rear                                 125 feet**
Maximum building height                    40 feet***
Notes:
*The front yard shall be measured from the ultimate right-of-way line. No part
of the front yard may be sloped or cut in any fashion except as necessary for
access roads.
**The side and rear yard setbacks may be sloped beginning at a point no closer
than 50 feet from any boundary line to a point 125 feet from said boundary
line. The slope shall not exceed a 3:1 slope and shall be reclaimed by seeding
and planting in accordance with a plan and timetable approved by the Board of
Supervisors.
***Building height shall be applicable only to those buildings or structures
having a permanent fixed foundation or location on the ground and shall not
include machinery or other temporary structures necessary to the operation of
extraction operations, asphalt plants, or ready mix concrete plants.
 
            (h)   Asphalt plants and ready mix concrete plants are permitted as
accessory uses to quarries, provided that the following standards are met:
               1)   Hereafter an asphalt plant or ready mix concrete plant may
not be established until a zoning permit is issued from the Board of
Supervisors. In determining whether a zoning permit shall issue for an asphalt
plant or a ready mix concrete plant, the said application shall be referred to
the Planning Commission and the Township Engineer for review. The Planning
Commission and Engineer shall make a report to the Township Supervisors who
shall then issue a permit upon its finding that the regulations pertinent to
the said use have been satisfied and its further finding that the said use
meets the criteria set forth herein.
               2)   Any application for a use permit for an asphalt plant or
ready mix concrete plant shall be accompanied by the following plans and
materials:
                  a)   Plot plan of the site at a scale of 100 feet to the inch
showing the location and dimensions of the plant in relation to the operation
and boundaries.
                  b)   Any and all permits necessary from any State or other
governmental agency which may now or in the future regulate such operation.
                  c)   Satisfactory proof that all State and other governmental
regulations and guidelines pertinent to the use have been satisfied.
                  d)   A plan demonstrating or illustrating the methods by
which noise, dust, and the spread of toxic or hazardous waste will be
controlled to meet the requirements of this Ordinance and to control nuisances.
               3)   Regulations for Asphalt Plant and Ready Mix Concrete
Plants.
                  a)   No asphalt plant or ready mix concrete plant or related
processing, shipping or crushing shall operate between the hours of 9 p.m. and
6 a.m.
                  b)   The asphalt plant or ready mix concrete plant shall be
located such that the land surrounding the plant shall be bermed in such a
fashion that the asphalt plant or ready mix concrete plant is not visible at
the property line.
                  c)   Prior to commencement of asphalt plant and/or ready mix
concrete plant operations, all screening and berming shall be completed to
totally screen the operation from view at the property line.
               4)   Environmental Impacts. An environmental impact assessment
shall be submitted to the Township that details potential impacts to human
health and the environment from all aspects of the use, including, but not
limited to:
                  a)   Ground water and surface water.
                  b)   Air quality (particulate and toxic substances).
                  c)   Noise and odor beyond the property line.
                  d)   Vehicle traffic, particularly to consider the ability of
the road system to handle the truck traffic.
                  e)   Soil quality.
            (i)   See the carbonate geology requirements in §
509.2.I of this Ordinance.
         (8)   G-8 Recycling Facility. Such use shall be limited to an area of
land, with or without buildings, that is used for the storage, sorting and
compaction of used or discarded paper, cardboard, plastic, metal cans, glass
and similar materials for the purpose of recycling, but which does not involve
industrial processing and is not a salvage facility.
            (a)   The proposed use shall not create nuisances or hazards to
adjacent land users. Crushing machinery shall not be operated and trucks shall
not load collected materials between the hours of 9 p.m. and 6 a.m.
            (b)   Maximum land area occupied by the use–2 acres.
            (c)   Such use shall be a minimum of 200 feet from any public road
as measured from the street line.
            (d)   The land area used for such purposes shall be hidden from
public view by an evergreen buffer.
            (e)   The storage of paper shall be within a building or a closed
container.
            (f)   The storage of toxic chemicals shall be prohibited.
            (g)   Dumping of trash or land fill operations and burning of any
materials shall specifically be prohibited.
            (h)   The use shall not cause groundwater contamination.
            (i)   Parking–one space per employee plus five additional spaces.
            (j)   Storage and/or discharge of waste or by-products is
prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (9)   G-9 Research. Shall mean a scientific or industrial research,
testing or experimental laboratory research, animal research, or similar
establishment for research or product development.
            (a)   No research facility shall be a commercial production
facility.
            (b)   No research facility shall be permitted which constitutes a
danger to the community because of combustible, chemical, or radioactive
materials.
            (c)   Parking–one space per 500 square feet of floor area.
            (d)   Storage and/or discharge of waste or by-products is
prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and wetlands.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (10)   G-10 Solid Waste Facility. Such use shall be limited to those
uses meeting the definition of solid waste facility as set forth in Article 2.
            (a)   Landscaping shall be provided to buffer and screen the use
from surrounding properties, to compliment buildings and other structures on
the site, and to enhance the overall character of the facility. A buffer zone
of 50 feet in width shall be established from the property line to a line of
evergreen trees which shall be planted around the perimeter of the site in
accordance with the buffer standards of Article 5 herein.
            (b)   The facility shall be screened by fencing, walls, berming and
other site improvements features to compliment the proposed landscaping buffer,
and shall be surrounded by adequate fencing to prevent unauthorized entry.
            (c)   The facility shall provide adequate signage which shall be in
accordance with Article 9 and which shall be crafted to be attractive and of
the highest graphic quality in keeping with the character of surrounding
properties.
            (d)   The facility shall provide adequate exterior lighting for the
safe and efficient operation and security of the facility but as minimal and
subdued as possible using light posts and fixtures complimentary to the
proposed architecture and the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
            (e)   The facility shall provide for adequate environmental
controls to minimize noise, vibration, glare, heat, odor, smoke, dust, fumes,
vapors, gases, air emissions, and water effluents, as required under
appropriate and relevant Federal and State environmental laws and Article 5 of
this Ordinance.
            (f)   The facility shall include efficient mitigation of potential
adverse environmental impacts as described in the environmental impact
assessment requirements of the Township as provided in clause (p) below.
            (g)   The facility shall not include any building with a height in
excess of 35 feet, provided however that for every foot that any building might
necessarily be constructed in excess of 35 feet (exclusive of any exhaust
stacks) in order to operate properly and safely, 5 additional feet of front,
side and rear yard setback shall be provided, but in no case shall the overall
height exceed 55 feet.
            (h)   The facility shall not include any exhaust or other stack
with a height in excess of 100 feet, except as required under U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or other Federal or State regulations,
and shall provide safeguards and meet Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
regulations regarding limitations relative to airport safety and sound
engineering practices.
            (i)   The facility shall provide adequate storage, loading and
unloading facilities and sufficient paved turning areas to permit unobstructed
maneuvering room for trash, transfer and ash trucks; and shall provide adequate
automobile parking as required by Article 5 herein.
            (j)   The facility shall have a contract with a pest and rodent
control company for the regular elimination and control or rats, flies, vermin
and other rodents, insects and pests that might become vectors for carrying
disease.
            (k)   The facility shall not intrude upon, nor provide storage for
any waste in the 100- year floodplain, any riparian buffer or wetland.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (l)   No use shall emit odorous gasses or other odorous matter in
such quantities as to be humanly perceptible at any point beyond its lot lines.
            (m)   Dimensional Requirements for Landfill (Municipal or
Sanitary), Resource Recovery Facilities or Waste to Energy Plants.
 
Minimum lot size          50 acres
Maximum building coverage 10 percent
Minimum lot width         900 feet
Maximum building height   35 feet
Minimum front yard        200 feet (400 feet if adjacent to residence or
                          residential districts)
Minimum side yard         100 feet (200 feet if adjacent to residence or
                          residential districts)
Minimum rear yard         100 feet (200 feet if adjacent to residence or
                          residential districts)
 
            (n)   Dimensional Requirements for Solid Waste Facilities Other
than Landfills, Resource Recovery Facilities or Waste-to-energy Plants (Such as
Composting Plants and Transfer Stations).
 
Minimum lot size          10 acres
Maximum building coverage 10 percent
Minimum lot width         300 feet
Maximum building height   35 feet
Minimum front yard        150 feet (300 feet if adjacent to residences or
                          residential districts)
Minimum side yard         50 feet (75 feet if adjacent to residences or
                          residential districts)
Minimum rear yard         100 feet (200 feet if adjacent to residences or
                          residential districts)
 
            (o)   Parking–one space per employee plus additional spaces as
required by the Board of Supervisors.
            (p)   See the carbonate geology requirements in §
509.2.I of this Ordinance.
            (q)   The following additional requirements shall apply for a solid
waste transfer facility.
               1)   There shall be compliance with all applicable Federal and
State regulations. Township zoning approval shall be conditioned upon
compliance with such Federal and State regulations.
               2)   A copy of all written materials and correspondence that the
applicant sends and receives regarding compliance with Federal and State
environmental requirements shall also be provided to the Township by the
applicant, unless a copy is provided to the Township by the agency.
               3)   All transfer, loading, unloading or storage of solid waste
shall occur within an enclosed building. The floor of the building shall be an
impervious surface that acts as a containment area for any spills.
               4)   The air quality in the building shall be monitored for gas
accumulation using analytic procedures. Test results shall be recorded and
submitted to the Township.
               5)   The building air shall discharge through a filter/wet
scrubber system with the capacity to remove noxious chemicals (such as
chlorine, ammonia and methane) as well as particulate matter.
               6)   All leachates or liquids from vehicles as well as from wash
down of equipment shall drain to a containment area that is periodically
treated on-site or off- site in accordance with State regulations for
wastewater treatment. No direct discharge of wastewater, either treated or
untreated, is allowed within the Cooks Creek Watershed.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (r)   Environmental Impacts. An environmental impact assessment
shall be submitted to the Township that details potential impacts to human
health and the environment from all aspects of the use, including but not
limited to:
               1)   Ground water and surface water.
               2)   Air quality (particulate and toxic substances).
               3)   Noise and odor beyond the property line.
               4)   Vehicle traffic, particularly to consider the ability of
the road system to handle the truck traffic.
               5)   Soil quality.
            (s)   The overnight parking of trucks containing sewage sludge or
septage shall also be regulated as a solid waste facility.
         (11)   G-11 Truck Terminal. Establishments used for the storage of
trucks and/or the transfer of freight, other than solid waste, from one truck
to another, and which primarily involves tractor-trailer trucks bring goods to
the site and tractor-trailer trucks bring goods from the site, and which is not
a manufacturing use as a principal use.
            (a)   Warehousing may be permitted.
            (b)   All areas used for the overnight storage of two or more
tractor-trailer trucks or trailers of such combinations shall be separated by a
street or lot line by a landscaped buffer yard meeting §
503.
            (c)   Parking–one space per employee plus one space per truck bay,
plus one space for each company vehicle typically parked on the lot.
            (d)   The use, including the noise from any refrigerated trucks,
shall comply with the noise requirements of this Ordinance. See §
508.
            (e)   Areas use for the parking, loading, or unloading of tractor-
trailer trucks shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from any residential
district.
         (12)   G-12 Wholesale. Establishments engaged primarily in the selling
of merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional users, or
to other wholesalers.
            (a)   Parking–one space per employee, plus one space for each
company vehicle typically parking on the site.
            (b)   A buffer yard meeting §
503 shall be required adjacent to a residential lot or residential district.
         (13)   G-13 Warehouse. A building with a footprint of 25,000 square
feet or less that is primarily used for the storage, wholesale, and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies and equipment.
            (a)   Parking–one space per employee, plus one space for each
company vehicle typically parking on the site.
            (b)   A buffer yard meeting §
503 shall be required adjacent to a residential lot or residential district.
            (c)   There shall be no retail sales permitted in conjunction with
the warehouse use.
            (d)   Applicant shall submit a truck turning radii plan with a
zoning permit application. The plan shall sufficiently address on site internal
truck turning movements. In addition, the plan shall sufficiently address truck
turning movements related to ingress and egress from the property and movements
on roadways surrounding the property.
(Ord. 202, passed 2-28-2023)
         (14)   G-14 Printing. Printing, publishing and binding.
            (a)   Parking–three off-street parking spaces for each four
employees on the largest shift, or one off-street parking space for every 250
square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater, plus one space for each
company vehicle normally stored on the premises.
            (b)   A buffer yard meeting §
503 shall be required adjacent to a residential lot or residential district.
            (c)   Storage and/or discharge of chemicals and/or chemical waste
is prohibited from the 100-year floodplain and all riparian buffers and
wetlands.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (15)   G-15 Planing Mill. Planing mill includes the processing of wood
to finish products such as molding, trim, etc.
            (a)   Parking–three off-street parking spaces for each four
employees on the largest shift, or one off-street parking space for every 500
square feet of gross floor area, which is greater, plus one space for each
company vehicle normally stored on the premises.
            (b)   A buffer yard meeting §
503 shall be required adjacent to a residential lot or residential district.
         (16)   G-16 Large Warehouse/Fulfillment/Distribution Center. A
building with a footprint greater than 25,000 square feet, used primarily as a
warehouse or for picking, checking, labelling and packing of goods to be
redistributed rapidly to retailers, wholesalers, or directly to consumers.
            (a)   All access points shall be directly connected to an adjacent
collector or arterial road.
            (b)   For buildings in excess of 100,000 square feet, a minimum lot
area of 10 acres is required.
            (c)   Access points shall not be installed within 250 feet of any
property line of a property that contains a residence or is within a
residential district.
            (d)   All drive aisles, loading/unloading areas, and parking areas
intended for truck use, as well as outdoor storage areas, shall be a minimum of
250 feet from any residence or residential district.
            (e)   There shall be no retail sales permitted in conjunction with
the large warehouse/ fulfillment/distribution center use.
            (f)   Parking – Off-street parking, loading, and staging spaces and
loading docks are required as follows:
               1)   Off-street parking spaces – one parking space for each
employee at peak periods of operation.
               2)   Staging spaces, loading spaces, and loading docks shall be
specified on the initial plan to accommodate the proposed intensity of use and
its possible, reasonable expansion.
                  a.   Spaces shall include parking reserved for outbound
trucks which are required to layover or rest due to hours-of-service
regulations. Such spaces must be accessible during and after the facility's
operating hours, as necessary.
               3)   All areas used for the overnight storage of two or more
trucks or trailers or such combinations shall be separated from a street or lot
line by a landscaped buffer yard meeting requirements of § 503. In addition,
buffer yards shall incorporate a berm (§
503.4.A.3) and an interior, 8-foot, solid fence (§
503.4.D.3).
            (g)   Designated Snow Storage areas shall be provided, at
appropriate locations on the site, which are of sufficient size. Snow storage
areas shall not include any areas necessary to meet minimum parking, staging,
or loading space requirements. Designated Snow Storage areas shall not include
stormwater management facilities.
            (h)   Mechanical scraper systems shall be installed at each truck
exit drive for the purpose of removing snow, slush and ice from trailer and
truck rooftops. During winter months, all trucks must pass under these
mechanical scrapers prior to exiting the facility.
            (i)   Site Operation.
               1)   Idling Restrictions. Trucks shall comply with The Diesel-
Powered Motor Vehicle Idling Act, PA Act 124 of 2008, as amended.
               2)   Appropriate signage shall be provided directing trucks to
park in designated parking spaces while awaiting access to a loading/unloading
dock/doorway.
               3)   Truck drivers shall be instructed as to travel routes
(relative to the class of vehicle) between the facility and the nearest
arterial roads by way of on-site and off-site signage and other appropriate
means.
            (j)   Other Requirements.
               1)   Exterior access to the roof of the building from ground
level shall be provided to allow public safety personnel direct emergency
access. That access shall meet or exceed Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) standards. Final location and specifications for the
exterior access shall be subject to review and approval by the township
engineer and by the fire marshal having jurisdiction in Springfield Township.
               2)   Commercial Knox Boxes are required to provide public safety
personnel access to any secured areas of the site, the principal building
structure, and any accessory structures. The final location(s) and
specifications for Knox Boxes shall be subject to review and approval by the
Springfield Township police.
            (k)   Application Requirements.
               1)   Traffic Study. Applicant shall provide, with the initial
application, a Traffic Study prepared by a professional engineer, licensed in
the State of Pennsylvania, in accordance with PennDOT "Policies and Procedures
for Transportation Impact Studies related to Highway Occupancy Permits", latest
edition. The final scope of the study shall be subject to approval by the
Township, and PennDOT if the project will impact a state highway.
               2)   When submitting the conditional use application, the
applicant shall provide a written narrative, and additional supporting
information, documentation, studies, and reports as necessary or required
below, containing detailed descriptions of the proposed use and substantive
evidence demonstrating consistency of the proposed use relative to each of the
following topics:
                  a.   The nature of all activities and operations to be
conducted on the site, including methods for disposal of any surplus or damaged
materials.
                  b.   Hours of operation.
                  c.   Consistency of the proposed use with each of the general
standards for a Conditional Use as set forth in Article 8.
                  d.   Consistency of the proposed use with the standards set
forth in § 508 relative to environmental or other impacts (e.g., odor, noise,
smoke, dust, exterior lighting, litter, glare, vibration, electrical
disturbance, wastewater, stormwater, solid waste, etc.) that are likely to
result from the use. The narrative shall delineate specific measures to be
employed to mitigate or eliminate any negative impacts.
                  e.   The applicant shall submit a current Pennsylvania
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources PNDI environmental review
receipt for the project and additional evidence as necessary to demonstrate
that no endangered species will be negatively impacted by the proposed
development.
                  f.   Adequacy of the number, size, and location of loading
and staging spaces provided for trucks to accommodate the expected demand
generated by the use, including both pre-loading and post-loading activities.
                  g.   Adequacy of off-street staging spaces available for
trucks arriving during non-business hours to prevent vehicles from parking on
public streets while waiting to access the facility.
                  h.   Adequacy of off-street staging spaces available at
facility entrances to prevent vehicles from queuing on public streets while
waiting to access the facility.
                  i.   The applicant shall submit a truck routing map
identifying anticipated routes to and from the proposed facility to the
Township boundary, consistent with truck routing signage and trip distribution
data presented in the required traffic study.
                  j.   In the event that a particular tenant has not been
identified for the facility, conditional approval should require a future
review that reconsiders all elements for any physical or operational change or
expansion not delineated in the original application.
                  k.   Applicant shall submit a truck turning radii plan. The
plan shall sufficiently address on site internal truck turning movements. In
addition, the plan shall sufficiently address truck turning movements related
to ingress and egress from the property and movements on roadways surrounding
the property.
(Ord. 202, passed 2-28-2023)
      H.   Accessory Uses.
         (1)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. A single apartment, accessory to the
primary residence on a lot, is intended to:
            (a)   Allow sufficient proximity to caregiver(s) when the challenge
of aging or other infirmities might otherwise force the primary owners from
their home;
            (b)   Provide accommodations for elderly family members or family
members who for other reasons might otherwise require assistance;
            (c)   Provide a source of income to the owners who might not
otherwise be able to maintain their home;
            (d)   Accommodate guests, or workers employed by the owners.
Only one apartment accessory to a single-family detached dwelling shall be
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
            (a)   The accessory apartment shall occupy no more than 50% of the
primary dwelling.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (b)   The accessory apartment shall contain no more than two
bedrooms; and one bathroom.
            (c)   The accessory apartment shall contain separate sleeping,
living and bathroom facilities and may contain separately kitchen facilities.
            (d)   The accessory apartment shall be part of the principle
residence, an addition thereto, or may be contained in an existing accessory
structure. If a new accessory structure is constructed for this purpose, it
must be situated within the building envelope, and is not eligible for the
accessory structures exception listed in Section
501.4.A.(3).
            (e)   A recreational vehicle or mobile home shall not be used an
accessory apartment.
            (f)   The owner of the property shall occupy either the principal
dwelling unit or the apartment. For the purpose of this section, the “owner”
shall be one or more individuals residing in a dwelling who hold legal title to
the residence and for whom the dwelling is primary residence.
            (g)   There shall be in addition to the required off-street parking
for the principal dwelling at least one, but not more than two, additional
parking space(s) for the accessory apartment.
            (h)   The applicant shall provide written documentation from the
Bucks County Health Department that the septic system or other sewage disposal
system will be adequate to safely treat and dispose of additional wastewater
generated by the residents of the accessory apartment. If the Health Department
does not or cannot certify the adequacy of the wastewater system for the
proposed apartment, the applicant shall provide engineering data to ensure that
the system will support the increased load.
         (2)   H-2 Dwelling in Combination with a Business. One dwelling unit
in combination with an existing or permitted office or commercial use is
permitted, provided the lot area, setbacks, and parking requirements for the
nonresidential uses are met.
            (a)   Parking–two spaces for the dwelling plus parking requirements
for the nonresidential use.
         (3)   H-3 Family Day Care. Day care service provided on a regular
basis for compensation is permitted as a residential accessory use.
            (a)   The number of persons in the care of the owner/tenant of the
residence shall be limited to six.
            (b)   No outdoor advertising is permitted.
            (c)   The applicant shall provide written documentation from the
Bucks County Health Department that the septic system or other sewage disposal
system will be adequate to safely treat and dispose of additional wastewater
generated by the residents of lot. If such Health Department fails to respond
to the request for certification, the applicant shall provide engineering data
to support the assertion that the system can handle the increased load.
Creation of an environmental hazard or odor nuisance because of overloading or
insufficient maintenance of the sewage system shall be a violation of this
Ordinance.
            (d)   A minimum of one parking space shall be designed for and
reserved for the dropping off and the picking up of young persons in a manner
that does not obstruct traffic on streets. The lot shall include a turnaround
area that allows vehicles to enter a street without backing onto the street.
         (4)   H-4 Home-Based Business. The home-based business occupation
shall be accessory to a residence and carried on wholly indoors and within a
dwelling or other structure accessory thereto and shall be clearly incidental
and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants.
            (a)   A home-based business is permitted if it does not change the
character of the neighborhood in which it is located and is not an attempt to
avoid locating the business in a zoning district where it is appropriate. To
determine whether a particular home-based business is permissible the following
factors must be considered:
                1)   generation of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
               2)   parking of cars, trucks and equipment;
               3)   storage and delivery of materials related to the
occupation;
               4)   generation of noise, vibration, glare, odors, fumes, and
dust;
               5)   external lighting and displays related to the occupation;
or
               6)   external modification of existing structures, including the
primary residence.
            (b)   There are two classes of home-based businesses: No-Impact
Home Based Businesses (PA Municipal Planning Code) which are permitted “by
right” and do not require a permit, and Limited-Impact Home-Based Businesses
which are permitted “by right” and do require an annual permit. A description
of both classes of home occupations follows.
            (a)   H-4a No-Impact Home-Based Business. A business or commercial
activity administered or conducted as an accessory use which is clearly
secondary to the use as a residential dwelling and which involves no customer,
client or patient traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, delivery or removal
functions to or from the premises, in excess of those normally associated with
residential use. The business or commercial activity must satisfy the follow
requirements.
               1)   The business activity shall be compatible with the
residential use of the property and surrounding residential uses.
               2)   The business shall employ no employees other than family
members residing in the dwelling.
               3)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature.
               4)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use,
including, but not limited to, parking, signs or lights.
               5)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood.
               6)   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or
sewage discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with
residential use in the neighborhood.
               7)   The business activity shall be conducted only within the
dwelling and may not occupy more than 25% of the habitable floor area.
               8)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
No-impact home-based businesses are allowed in all residential zones of
Springfield Township as a use permitted “by right”, except that such permission
shall not supersede any deed restriction, covenant or agreement restricting the
use of land, nor any master deed, bylaw or other document applicable to a
common interest ownership community. A home occupation that satisfies all of
these conditions does not require a permit.
            (b)   H-4b Limited-Impact Home-Based Business. A home-based
business that does not satisfy the preceding requirements may still be allowed
in Springfield Township. Nevertheless, such uses shall be compatible with the
residential use of the property and surrounding residential uses. Uses that
meet the following requirements are allowed “by right” but require an annual
permit from the Township:
               1)   In no way shall the appearance of the residential structure
be altered or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner
which would cause the premises to differ from the residential character by the
use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, show windows or advertising
visible outside the premises to attract customers or clients.
               2)   The home occupation shall be carried on only by the
inhabitants of the dwelling and not ore than two non-resident employees working
on-site at any one time.
               3)   Parking – In addition to the requirements for the
residence, there shall be one off-street parking space for each non-resident
employee and 2 additional off-street spaces for visitors. There shall be no
exterior parking of commercial vehicles and equipment associated with the
business or commercial activity. Interior parking of commercial vehicles and
equipment is permitted, but shall not exceed 1,000 square feet.
               4)   There shall be no storage of hazardous materials. Exterior
storage of non-hazardous materials is limited to 5 cu yds or less.
               5)   Home-based business activities, including sales and
services shall not generate any more trips by residents of the home, employees,
and customers in excess of those normally associated with residential uses.
               6)   Servicing by commercial motor vehicles, other than those
that ordinarily deliver consumer goods, for supplies and materials shall not
exceed 6 trips per week.
               7)   The home-based business shall have no show windows,
advertising signs or special lighting visible from the exterior of the
dwelling, except as provided by Section
905.I.3. It shall not generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes, dust and odors
other than what is permitted in the zoning district in which the dwelling is
located. It shall not produce any electrical interference and no equipment or
process shall be used which creates visible or audible interference in any
radio, television or local area network located off the lot. In addition to the
primary residence, the business may occupy up to 1,000 sq. ft. of an accessory
building. The home-based business shall not generate solid waste in excess of
that normally associated with a residential use.
         (5)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an Accessory Use. The keeping of
livestock on properties less than 5 acres shall be governed by the following
regulations:
            (a)   Livestock (excluding poultry) and accessory buildings for
livestock and horse use are permitted as accessory uses to single-family
detached dwellings if the lot size is not less than 2 acres.
            (b)   The number of livestock permitted per acre shall be in
accordance with the following:
               1)   Cows, horses, ponies, mules and animals of similar size - 2
acre minimum for the first animal and 1 animal per acre for each additional
acre.
               2)   Miniature horses, swine, goats, sheep and animals of
similar size - 1 acre minimum for the first animal, and 2 animals per acre for
each additional acre.
               3)   Domestic poultry- permitted on lots larger than 0.25 acres,
at a maximum density of 20 poults per acre. Roosters are prohibited in the
Village Center and Village Residential districts. Also, in those two districts,
poultry shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must be kept in the
covered enclosure or in a fenced enclosure at all times.
            (c)   All livestock shall be kept within the property lines and not
run at large. Fences shall not be installed within the legal right-of-way of a
public road.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (d)   No persons owning or keeping livestock shall maintain such so
as to create any health, environmental or safety hazard.
            (e)   Any building used for the shelter or housing of livestock or
horses shall be located not less than 20 feet from a lot line of another
property.
            (f)   Manure shall be stored or applied in accordance with
Pennsylvania laws and in a manner that prevents pollution of groundwater or
surface water. Manure shall not be stored in any riparian buffer or wetland.
Manure shall be stored in a manner that does not create a visual, biological or
odor nuisance.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      Definitions–Livestock- domesticated animals raised to produce commodities
such as food, fiber, and labor, or for recreational use. Livestock include, but
are not limited to, cows, horses, poultry, sheep, and pigs.
         (6)   H-6 Outside Storage. Outside storage necessary but incidental to
the normal operation of a primary nonresidential use, subject to the following
additional provisions:
            (a)   No part of the street right-of-way, no sidewalks or other
areas intended or designed for pedestrian use, no required parking areas, and
no part of the required front yard shall be occupied by outside storage.
            (b)   Outside storage areas shall occupy an area of less than one-
half of the existing building coverage.
            (c)   Uses requiring more substantial amounts of land area for
storage, such as agriculture, nursery, automotive sales, truck terminal, lumber
yards, may be exempt from the provisions of clause (b) above. For these and
other similar uses, no more than 60 percent of the lot area shall be used for
outside storage. Among the uses that shall not be considered appropriate for
inclusion under this provision are retail shop, repair shop, service station,
automobile and car wash, and trades.
            (d)   The storage of tractor trailers, panel trucks, vans, and
similar vehicles which supply or service establishments in commercial or
industrial districts shall be permitted provided that such vehicles shall be
used by the establishment in the normal conduct of their business. Any tractor-
trailer trucks or trailers of such combinations shall have current registration
and shall be intended for transportation purposes, and shall not be used for
on- site storage for more than 3 months per vehicle.
            (e)   Outside storage within the 100-year floodplain shall also
comply with § 708 and other provisions of Article 7. No outside storage of
chemicals or chemical waste is allowed in the 100-year floodplain or any
riparian buffer or wetland.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (7)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. Shall mean campers, travel trailers,
recreational vehicles, and boats.
            (a)   Recreational vehicles may be stored on the premises by the
occupant of the premises only.
            (b)   Storage of any recreational vehicle with a length greater
than 22 feet must be behind the building setback line, except that such vehicle
may be parked anywhere on residential premises or street for a period not to
exceed 24 hours in any 4-day period during loading and unloading. No such
vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when
parked or stored on a residential lot or in any location not approved for such
a use.
         (8)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure and Use. The following shall
be allowed as accessory to a dwelling, within the following the following
requirements:
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
Parking for motor vehicles, provided that there shall be no parking of
commercial motor vehicles, except as provided by Section
404.H.4.(b)3).
         (9)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. Such pools are permitted on all private lots
except multiple outdoor units shall not be allowed for apartment dwellings.
            (a)   The spa or hot tub shall be located either entirely within
the house or if located outside, shall be located within an enclosed patio.
            (b)   The patio shall be fully enclosed by the rear wall of the
housing unit and/or a wall or fence along the rear and/or side of the patio.
The height of the walls or fences shall not be less than 4 feet.
            (c)   The water surface shall be required to have a cover capable
of being locked, for the purposes of safety and to cover the water surfaces
during the off-season or such other periods of non-use. The water surface cover
shall be required to be latched when not in use.
            (d)   Waste water shall be discharged to a sanitary sewer system
only or hauled off-site for disposal at an approved treatment facility. The
water shall not be directly discharged into a storm sewer, waterway or swale
that runs into a waterway, nor into the 100-year floodplain, riparian buffer or
wetland. Only waste water that has been treated such that it contains no
chemicals may be discharged on the surface of the land or into the storm sewer
system.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (10)   H-10 Swimming Pool. The following regulations apply to private
swimming pools which are accessory to single-family detached dwellings. No
private swimming pools shall be permitted as accessory uses to townhouses,
multi-family dwellings, duplexes, or twin dwellings. These regulations also
apply to public or semi-public swimming pools.
            (a)   No person, owner or occupant of land shall install or
maintain a swimming pool or other artificial body of water capable of being
filled to a depth exceeding 24 inches at the deepest or lowest point unless a
permit is first obtained from the Zoning Officer and the required plans and
information are filed, together with required permit fees. Ornamental pools and
wading pools which do not exceed 24 inches in depth are exempt from these
provisions. Swimming pools shall include any pool, regardless of design, or
construction materials or the permanency of its location both above and below
ground level, which is built, erected or used for the purpose of bathing or
swimming and all buildings, equipment, and appurtenances thereto. This
Ordinance shall also apply to public or semi-public swimming pools used and
maintained by an individual, firm, corporation, club or association of persons
for use by the public or members and their invitees or guests.
            (b)   Each pool area and the paving or coping surrounding it or
associated with it shall be located not less than 15 feet back from the front
building setback line and not closer than 15 feet to other property lines.
            (c)   Water shall be regularly treated and filtered, and shall not
be allowed to become stagnant or breed vectors.
            (d)   Construction and Maintenance. The construction and design of
all pools shall be such that the same can be maintained and operated as to be
clean and sanitary at all times. The owners of every such pool shall be
responsible to maintain said pool in such condition as to prevent breaks in the
pool chassis or water from the pool overflowing into adjacent public or private
property. Public and semi-public swimming pools shall be constructed, equipped
and maintained in strict conformity with the provisions of the swimming pool
and public health codes issued by the State and the County Health Department.
            (e)   Outdoor lighting, if used, shall be installed in such a way
as to be shielded and not to reflect toward or into the interior of adjacent
residential properties.
            (f)   Electrical work shall comply with the Township Electrical
Code.
            (g)   A minimum isolation distance of 25 feet shall be required
between a swimming pool and any sewage disposal system.
            (h)   Approved filtration systems and circulators must be provided
for all pools except such exempt or nonexempt wading pools as are emptied on a
daily basis as hereinafter provided.
            (i)   All pool installations shall conform to all applicable
building codes.
            (j)   In no case shall water in the pool or pool area be permitted
to emit an offensive odor or create any unhealthful condition. Further, it
shall be a violation of this Ordinance to cause or allow drainage onto land of
others in a manner that causes flooding, erosion or damage.
            (k)   No pool shall be located under any electric power lines
(including service lines), and the pool must be located at least 10 feet
(measured horizontally) from such power lines.
            (l)   Fencing of Pools. The requirements of the Township
Construction Codes shall apply. In the event that an existing or proposed pool
is not regulated under such Construction Codes, then the following shall apply:
permanent swimming pools above or below grade must be completely enclosed with
a minimum 4 feet high chain link, stockade, picket (not exceeding 3-inch
spacing), solid wooden fence, building wall, sides of an aboveground pool, or
such other material as may be acceptable, at the discretion of the Zoning
Officer, to carry out the intent of this Ordinance. All gates or doors opening
through such enclosure shall be kept securely closed and locked at all times
when the pool is not in actual use. No water shall be placed in the pool until
a fence, as required by this Ordinance, has been completed.
            (m)   Waste water shall be discharged to a sanitary sewer system
only or hauled off-site for disposal at an approved treatment facility. The
water shall not be directly discharged into a storm sewer, waterway or swale
that runs into a waterway, nor into the 100-year floodplain, riparian buffer or
wetland. Only waste water that has been treated such that it contains no
chemicals may be discharged on the surface of the land or into the storm sewer
system.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (11)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. A permit may be issued
for temporary structures, office trailers, construction trailers, or vehicles
necessary during construction or other special circumstances of a nonrecurring
nature, subject to the following:
            (a)   The above use shall only be permitted upon the issuance of a
temporary zoning permit by the Zoning Officer. Such permit shall set forth that
the use proposed is intended to be a temporary use and that the owner, by
applying for such a temporary permit, agrees and acknowledges that the use is
not and will not become a recognized nonconforming use. Each temporary permit
so issued shall expire 1 year after its issuance. Each permit may be renewed
for a single additional 6-month period.
            (b)   Upon failure of the lot owner to renew the permit, the uses
provided in this Section shall be immediately discontinued by the lot owner and
any structure located on the property pursuant to the expired permit shall be
removed from the property within 30 days without cost to the Township.
            (c)   Any permit issued pursuant to this Section shall be issued
only to those persons who are the lot owners of record at the time the
application is submitted. Any temporary zoning permit issued pursuant to this
Section shall be non-assignable and shall immediately expire upon the purchase,
sale, or other transfer of the lot or any portion of the lot. Any subsequent
lot owner may make a new application for a temporary zoning permit upon
compliance with the requirements of this Section.
            (d)   No retail sales shall be permitted from a temporary structure
or vehicle, except for accessory agricultural sales as provided for herein.
            (e)   No structure permitted under this use may be constructed with
a foundation or be connected to an on-lot sewage disposal system.
            (f)   In addition, a temporary modular or manufactured/mobile home
may be placed on a lot for a maximum total period of 1 year while a site-built
home is actively under construction on the same lot. Such dwelling shall be
completely removed after 12 months have passed or within 30 days after the
site-built dwelling is occupied, whichever occurs first.
         (12)   H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boilers per the performance standards
of
Chapter 91 of this Code.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
         (13)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. A use or structure
shall only be allowed as an accessory use or structure if it is customarily
incidental to the principal use on the same lot.
         (14)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facility. A solar
photovoltaic (PV) generator or a solar thermal (ST) generator that is designed
to produce not more than 1.5 times the projected annual energy consumption of
proposed residential, nonresidential, or accessory uses on a single lot,
provided:
            (a)   The applicant shall provide a site plan which identifies
property lines, lot area, location of existing natural and manmade features,
location of the proposed solar energy system, ownership information for
adjoining properties, and setback measurements from property lines, street
lines, and occupied buildings. The solar installer shall provide drawings and
specifications for the solar array itself.
            (b)   The installation or expansion of off-site transmission lines
equipment or electrical substations shall not be permitted related to the above
use.
            (c)   A residential or non-residential accessory solar facility
shall be considered a discontinued facility after 2 years without energy
production. The township shall be permitted to require an owner of a
residential or nonresidential energy facility to supply evidence of energy
production upon request. Renewed operation of a discontinued facility shall not
commence until a new application has been submitted and the system inspected
and approved.
            (d)   Roof-top panels associated with a residential or
nonresidential solar facility shall not extend more than 7 feet above the roof
plane.
            (e)   Ground-mount panels shall not constitute impervious surface,
unless the ground underlying the ground-mount panels is covered with impervious
surface.
            (f)   A solar energy system may exceed applicable maximum accessory
structure height if it will cover an impervious surface parking area. Minimum
height of the parking canopy must allow clearance for emergency and service
vehicles.
            (g)   Residential and nonresidential accessory solar-powered
generating facilities shall be prohibited from being installed between the
front lot line and the primary residential or nonresidential building on the
lot, unless the lot is greater than 5 acres. If the solar facilities are to be
installed between the front lot line and the primary residential or
nonresidential building, the solar facilities must still be installed outside
of the front yard.
            (h)   The minimum setback from property lines shall be the minimum
setback designated for structures by this Ordinance for the district in which
the array is to be constructed. Ground-mount panels do not qualify for the
accessory structures exemption to principal building setbacks as listed in §
501.4.A(3) of this Ordinance.
            (i)   The maximum height of any portion of a ground-mount solar
photovoltaic (PV) panel array shall be less than or equal to 20 feet.
            (j)   All on-site electrical distribution lines for ground-mount
panels shall be installed underground in conduit, except where subsurface
installation is impractical to cross streams, riparian buffers, wetlands,
ponds, or other sensitive natural features.
            (k)   Solar energy panels erected on a roof or within an impervious
surface area must be placed in accordance with all applicable codes and
practices related to firefighting.
            (l)   Accessory solar-powered generating facilities serving non-
residential uses which are to be located next to a residential property or
within a residential district, must provide a Type 1 Buffer that shall be
installed pursuant to §
503.3 of this Ordinance.
            (m)   Owners of accessory solar energy systems are encouraged, but
not required, to obtain solar access easements from neighboring landowners to
ensure solar access. Springfield Township does not guarantee and will not
protect any individual property rights with respect to solar access. If such
action or event should occur, the matter shall be resolved as a civil dispute
between the landowners, and Springfield Township shall not be held liable.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (15)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facilities. Include
residential and non-residential wind turbines and windmills, each with less
than 200m2 swept area, that provide for on-site demand as an accessory use,
provided:
            (a)   Wind energy systems shall be permitted by conditional use in
all zoning districts as an accessory use provided that such systems are located
on a lot with a permitted use in accordance with the applicable provisions of
this Chapter.
            (b)   Horizontal axis wind turbines attached to roofs or walls of
an occupied building are prohibited. Only vertical axis wind turbines
specifically designed for building installation shall be approved.
            (c)   Maximum height of the structure, including all moving and
rotating pans, shall be 100 feet, measured from the undisturbed ground
elevation at the base of the device, to the highest point of the arc of the
blade, helix, or to the top of the tower, whichever is greater.
            (d)   There shall be no power (kW) limit on the rated power output
of a turbine. However, wind turbines for on-site demand shall be designed to
produce not more than 1.5 times the projected annual consumption (in kWh) of a
new, existing or expanded on-site use.
            (e)   The wind turbine system shall not require installation or
expansion of offsite transmission lines, equipment, or electrical substations.
            (f)   Setbacks for both wind turbines and windmills shall equal
1.10 times total height (hub height + one blade length) measured from the lower
base to lot lines, power lines, and road right-of-ways.
            (g)   The system component and structure shall meet applicable
State and Federal (including FAA) regulations. The lowest point of the area
swept by a horizontal axis turbine shall be at least 30 feet above grade. The
lowest point of the swept area of a vertical type shall be at least 15 feet
above grade or shall be surrounded by a cage or fence.
            (h)   No permanent features that aid in climbing a wind turbine
tower are allowed below 15 feet.
            (i)   Permitted only on lots of at least the minimum lot size
permitted in the zoning district.
            (j)   No artificial lighting (unless required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or a landowner's insurance carrier), signage, forms of
advertising shall be utilized or attached to the wind energy system.
            (k)   Design and location of a wind energy system shall consider,
to the greatest extent possible, the aesthetics of surrounding environment.
Springfield Township may require submission of illustrations and photos
depicting the color, size, shape, and architectural features of the proposed
device; and submission of color photographs of the proposed tower location
taken from view of all adjoining properties and roads. The wind generator and
the tower shall remain painted or finished in the color or finish that was
originally applied by the manufacturer unless a different color of finish is
approved by Springfield Township.
            (l)   All appropriate warning signs shall be installed on all wind
turbines where they are clearly visible by persons standing near the tower
base. No other signs shall be allowed on towers or turbines, other than the
manufacturer's name.
            (m)   All utility lines, including electrical wires other than
wires necessary to connect the wind generator to the tower wiring, the tower
wiring to the disconnect junction box, and the grounding wires, must be
installed underground in accordance with National Electric Code (latest
edition) and the prevailing standards of the servicing utility company.
            (n)   Noise associated with wind turbines and windmills shall not
exceed the noise levels as listed in §
508 of this Ordinance, except that, designated sound levels may be exceeded
during short-term events, such as utility outages and storms. Wind turbine
systems and windmills shall comply with all other performance standards as set
forth in §
508 of this Ordinance.
            (o)   Facility shall be considered a discontinued use after 2 years
without energy production. The Township may require evidence of energy
production upon request. Renewed operation of a discontinued facility shall not
commence until a new application has been submitted and the system inspected
and approved.
            (p)   A wind energy system, including tower, shall comply with all
applicable state construction and electrical codes, and the National Electrical
Code. Prior to issuance of a building/zoning permit for installation of the
device, applicant must submit to Springfield Township all documentation
required by the Springfield Township Building Code Official to verify that the
design of the device complies with the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code
(UCC), including, but not limited to, documentation of the structural integrity
of the foundation, base, tower, guy wires, and all appurtenant structures, and
electrical design. Design information must be signed and sealed by a licensed
professional engineer in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and/or equipment
manufacturer.
            (q)   Engineering plans/specifications shall be submitted for
review by the Code Enforcement Officer prior to issuance of a building permit.
Tower and foundation drawings and specifications shall be submitted to the
Township by the manufacturer and certified to meet Telecommunications Industry
Association Standard ANSI/TIA-222-G (as amended, updated, or supplanted) or
equivalent standards. Foundation specifications are to be designed for the
least suitable soil type within 500 feet of the proposed tower location.
Independent engineering review or wet-stamped drawing shall not be required
except for roof-mounted (or other non-traditionally mounted) turbines or
windmills. For non-traditionally mounted turbines or windmills, applications
shall include a wet stamped structural engineering analysis for the turbine
mounting system and for suitability of the building to which the turbine is to
be mounted
            (r)   The use shall not interfere with the reception of any radio,
television, or other communication equipment or inhibit solar access to
adjacent properties.
            (s)   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags,
reflectors, or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along
guy wires up to a height of 10 feet from the ground.
            (t)   All wind turbine systems and windmills shall be equipped with
over-speed controls.
            (u)   All accessory wind energy systems shall serve on-site
generation needs unless otherwise approved by Springfield Township. If a hookup
to a public or community utility system is proposed, electrical plans must be
signed and sealed by an electrical engineer certified in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, at the applicant's expense, and submitted to the utility company
and Springfield Township for approval.
            (v)   A nonparticipating landowner shall not intentionally block,
interfere, or disrupt the functional operation of an existing wind energy
system. If such action or event should occur, the matter shall be resolved as a
civil dispute between the landowners and Springfield Township shall not be held
liable.
            (w)   Wind turbines with swept areas up to 200m2 shall be certified
to the most current version of AWEA 9.1 by the Small Wind Certification Council
or equivalent.
            (x)   Installation of a wind turbine system shall comply with the
National Electrical Code (NEC). Applications must be accompanied by a single-
line drawing of the electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a
determination that the manner of installation conforms to the NEC.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (16)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. A ground-integrated
facility to provide heating and cooling to structures on a lot. Springfield
Township residents depend on ground water as a water supply source. Because
geothermal systems are constructed in the ground or use ground water, these
systems create a potential for water supply and quality degradation. Therefore,
the installation, use, and maintenance of geothermal systems are subject to the
following regulations:
            (a)   It shall be unlawful to install a new geothermal subsurface
facility (wells, horizontal or sub-aqueous tubing emplacements) or modify an
existing subsurface facility without a valid permit.
            (b)   Prior to constructing a new geothermal facility or modifying
an existing system; property owner shall file all appropriate applications with
Springfield Township, Bucks County, or other regulating agency and pay all
applicable fees.
            (c)   The application to construct or alter a geothermal facility
must be filed on behalf of the current owner or equitable owner.
            (d)   Springfield Township shall approve or deny the application
within 15 working days of receipt of a complete application and fee.
Springfield Township must field verify the location of the proposed geothermal
installations and all applicable isolation distances. When Springfield Township
has found an application to be incomplete, or is unable to verify the
information submitted, the applicant shall be notified in writing that
additional information or clarification is required. Springfield Township's
time for acting upon a permit shall be extended 15 days beyond the date of
receipt of the supplementary or amendatory information.
            (e)   Any relocation of the proposed geothermal installation site
from the permitted location must be submitted in writing and approved by
Springfield Township.
            (f)   If the geothermal facility construction is not completed in
two years of the permit issuance date, the approval to construct shall expire.
            (g)   All geothermal installation applications must be completed
and include the following information:
               1.   Applicant name and signature, address, and telephone
number.
               2.   Site address, subdivision name, and lot number.
               3.   Driller and/or Installer's name, PA DEP license number, and
telephone number.
               4.   Tax parcel number.
               5.   Description or construction.
               6.   Plot plan to include:
                  a.   Property lines, lot dimensions, slope direction,
adjacent streets, and reference to North.
                  b.   Marked distances from the proposed geothermal subsurface
installation to any existing and proposed water supplies, buildings, driveways,
parking areas, two (2) non-parallel property lines, retention areas, surface
waters, chemical/fuel storage areas, and any other feature that requires an
isolation distance as defined in this ordinance.
            (h)   Geothermal Heat Pump Regulations – Only closed loop systems
or standing column well systems are allowed. Open loop systems with separate
supply and reinjection wells or surface discharge sites are prohibited.
               1.   Standing Column Well (SCW)
                  a.   Standing column wells shall be installed to potable
water well standards.
                  b.   Isolation distances for potable water wells shall be
required.
                  c.   The standing column well geothermal system, including
heat pump exchanger, piping, and all other related systems shall be installed
by a geothermal well installation contractor who is certified in the proper
installation methods as specified by the manufacturer.
               2.   Location of Geothermal System
                  a.   Minimum isolation (setback) distance. Wells, boreholes,
and trenches regulated by this ordinance shall be located using the minimum
isolation (setback) distances to existing or potential sources of pollution or
protected lands listed in Table 1 below.
   Table 1
Setback From Borehole and Geothermal Supply and Geothermal Return Well (feet)
Setback From                             Borehole and Geothermal Supply and
                                         Geothermal Return Well (feet)
Delineated wetlands, flood plains,       10-25 feet
lakes, ponds, or other surface waters
Storm drains, retention basins,
stabilization ponds, or stormwater       At least 10 feet
management facilities
Preparation area of storage area of      300 feet; 100-150 feet (if borehole is
hazardous spray materials, fertilizers   cased and grouted inside and out)
of chemicals, or salt piles
Gravity sewer lines and drains carrying  5-15 feet or according to easement
domestic sewage or industrial waste
Existing water and forced sewer buried   At least 15 feet or outside easement
utilities and/or utility trenches
Septic tanks, aerobic tanks, or holding  At least 25 feet
tanks
Subsurface sewage disposal systems,
elevated sand mounds, or other sewage    25-50 feet
disposal fields
Sewage seepage pits and cesspools        At least 25 feet
Farm silos, barnyards, privies, and fuel At least 25 feet
tanks
Spray irrigation sites, sewage sludge,   At least 25 feet
and septage disposal sites
Dedicated public right-of-way and        At least 10 feet
property lines
Building foundations (except for
buildings enclosing water wells and/or   At least 10 feet
water well pumps and any other source of
pollution as approved)
Identified NPL Site (Superfund) plume    At least 300 feet
area
Any other source or potential source of  At least 100 feet
pollution
 
                  b.   All geothermal systems in areas underlain by carbonate
bedrock (e.g., Leithsville and Allentown formations) must be vertical loop
systems. If the closed loop geothermal borehole penetrates bedrock, it must be
grouted from a depth of fifteen feet (15') into the bedrock to the top of the
borehole. Outside the Allentown and Leithsville formation areas, either a
vertical, horizontal, or subaqueous closed loop geothermal system may be used,
subject, however, to the review and approval of the plans for same by the
township engineer and zoning officer.
               3.   Geothermal Heat Pump System Standards
                  a.   Only a PA DEP-licensed well driller or an International
Ground Source Heat Pump Association (IGSHPA)-accredited geothermal system
installer shall conduct trench excavation or drilling of a geothermal well. In
all cases, the well drilling rig must also be approved by PA DEP.
                  b.   The well contractor or excavator shall be responsible
for ensuring that the borehole or trench is installed in the permitted
location. Deviation from the permitted location must receive prior written
approval from Springfield Township. The well contractor or excavator shall be
responsible for drilling the borehole/excavating the trench and the final
backfilling after the pipe loop has been installed.
                  c.   A closed-loop geothermal system must be installed,
maintained, and decommissioned in compliance with standards conforming to IGSHP
A Closed-Loop/Geothermal Heat Pump Systems Design and Installation Standards as
same may be amended and updated from time to time.
                  d.   Closed-Loop Geothermal Boreholes or trenches shall be
located, drilled, and finished in a manner that will protect the borehole or
trench structure from damage due to surface activities or other natural
occurrences so that the quality of the local groundwater cannot be affected.
For a trench system, a minimum of six inches of sand or screenings is to be
added to the bottom of the trench and over the top of the piping to prevent the
loop piping from rubbing on stones.
                  e.   Pipe loops must be in intimate contact with soil or
grout to minimize air pockets.
                  f.   The pipe loop is to be installed by a contractor who is
certified in the proper method of heat fusion specified by the pipe
manufacturer and shall be responsible for ensuring that the pipe loop is
installed in accordance with the specifications of the ground specification of
the ground source heat pump manufacturer.
                  g.   All pipe and heat fused material shall be manufactured
to outside diameters, wall thickness and respective tolerances as specified in
ASTM D 3035, or D 2447, as specified in the PPI handbook of Polyethylene Pipe
HVAC Applications (each, as amended, updated, or supplanted).
                  h.   Copper piping is not acceptable for heat transfer use.
                  i.   Casings are not required. Casings may be necessary to
hold a borehole open during the drilling process. Casings may be left in the
borehole at the discretion of the well contractor. When a casing is used,
grouting the annular space is required.
                  j.   The minimum required backfilling material for boreholes
is bentonite. Bentonite grout shall be pure, with at least 20 percent solids by
weight when mixed with water. Hydration of the bentonite must be delayed until
the bentonite has been placed down the well. It is recommended that the
vertical bore holes are grouted from the bottom of the well to the top using an
appropriate grout with thermal transfer properties. If the borehole penetrates
bedrock, it must be grouted from a depth of fifteen (15) feet into the bedrock
to the top of the borehole.
                  k.   The IGSHPA recommendation that the heat exchanger be
isolated and tested to 150 percent of design pressure or 300 percent of system
operating pressure shall be followed. No leaks shall occur within a 30-minute
period.
                  l.   Only water, propylene glycol (PG) and water, or other
fluid specifically approved by Springfield Township may be used as a
circulating fluid for closed loop geothermal systems.
            (i)   Maintenance of Geothermal Heat Pump.
               1.   All ground source heat pump systems shall be properly
maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, the
installer's specifications, and any applicable PA DEP or federal regulations.
               2.   A person who owns a lot upon which a ground source heat
pump system is installed, and any person who occupies a structure which is
served by a ground source heat pump system, shall be responsible for
maintaining the ground source heat pump system in working order to design
specifications.
               3.   Any geothermal heat pump system leaks or releases shall be
reported by the applicant (and subsequent owners) to Springfield Township
within 24 hours of the discovery of same, and the applicant and subsequent
owners of the property shall take all appropriate action to minimize any fluid
release to the ground and to promptly repair any system leak.
               4.   In the event of the proposed discontinuance of the use of
the ground source heat pump system, a system closure plan will be prepared and
submitted to Springfield Township for its approval.
            (j)   Abandonment of Geothermal Heat Pump System.
               1.   A geothermal system shall be abandoned in a manner
acceptable to Springfield Township and shall comply with the laws, rules, and
regulations applicable to the abandonment of water wells. Any and all heat
transfer fluid must be removed by displacement with grout in a manner
acceptable to Springfield Township. The top of the borehole must be uncovered
and capped with grout in a manner acceptable to Springfield Township.
         (17)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems.
            1.   Emerging alternative systems which generate power or displace
existing fossil-fueled heating/cooling systems, other than those specifically
defined elsewhere in this ordinance, shall be permitted by special exception as
an accessory use provided that such systems are located on a lot with a
permitted use in accordance with the applicable provisions of this ordinance.
            2.   Emerging alternative energy systems may be located on or
attached to an occupied building provided that the structural components of the
emerging energy systems do not exceed the permitted building height
requirements of the zoning district to which it is located.
            3.   Emerging energy systems may be located on a lot with a
permitted use provided that all structural components comply with the building
setback requirements and lot coverage requirements of the zoning district on
which it is located. An emerging energy system installation shall also meet all
of the requirements of §§
502,
503, and
509 of the Springfield Township Zoning Ordinance. Appropriate buffer yards (§
503) may be mandated as a condition of special exception approval.
            4.   A site plan shall be submitted, which identities property
lines, lot area, location of existing natural and manmade features, location of
the proposed emerging energy system, ownership information for adjoining
properties, and setback measurements from property lines, street lines, and
occupied buildings.
            5.   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage must be
placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations
(Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 403; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, §§ 03, 07; Ord.
149, passed 4-29-2008, Arts. III, IV; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, §§ 05–26;
Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, §§ 03–07; Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014, §§ 02–06, 19;
Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 202, passed 2-28-2023; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
Article 5
General Provisions Applicable to All Districts
§ 501 Dimensional Requirements.
   1.   Lot Area Required. The lot and yard requirements for any new building
or use shall not include any part of a lot required by any other building or
use to comply with the requirements of this Ordinance.
   2.   Reduction of Land Areas. No lot area or required yard, setback, open
space or open land shall be so reduced that such area is less than is required
by this Ordinance.
   3.   Front Yard Requirements.
      A.   Where a minimum depth of front yard is specified, an open land area
of at least the specified depth shall be provided between the street line or
lines and the nearest point of any building or structure, except as provided in
§
501.3.B, .C and .D, below. Street lines are considered to be established by the
future rights-of-way when so designated to avoid interference with anticipated
future road widening and improvements.
      B.   For those properties fronting on streets which are classified by the
Township Comprehensive Plan as an arterial, the minimum front yard shall be at
least 65 feet unless an additional setback for the district is required by this
Ordinance.
      C.   Ground story bays and covered porches not over half the length of
the front wall may project 5 feet into any front yard. Chimneys, flues, sills,
footers, cornices, or gutters may project not more than 2 feet into a required
front yard.
      D.   These provisions shall not apply to walls less than 4 feet high
above the finished grade in the required front yard.
   4.   Side and Rear Yard Requirements.
      A.   No portion of a building or structure shall be built within the
minimum side or rear yard depth as measured from the side lot line or a rear
lot line specified herein, except for driveways and those other projections
provided in the following provisions:
         (1)   Bays, balconies, chimneys, steps, stoops, footers, wheelchair
ramps, covered porches and fire escapes may project into a required side or
rear yard not more than 4 feet.
         (2)   Fences with a maximum height of 7 feet, measured above the
natural grade, and terraces, wheelchair ramps, uncovered unenclosed porches or
decks, or other structures no less than 3 feet above the floor of the ground
story may occupy a required side and rear yard, provided that a covered porch
or deck shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any side or rear property
line.
         (3)   Accessory Structures. Completely detached accessory structures
with a height of less than 15 feet and a maximum building floor area of 300
square feet may occupy a required side or rear yard within zoning districts
where the principal structure side or rear yard exceeds 15 feet. However, the
accessory structure shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any side or
rear property boundary. Any other accessory structure shall meet principal
building setbacks.
   5.   Through Lots. In the case of through lots, 1 yard shall be designated
on the plans as the rear yard and 1 yard as the front yard. The front yard
shall be the yard between the building and the street from which the lot takes
access.
   6.   Flag Lots. A flag lot is a parcel of land which does not contain the
required minimum lot width at the minimum front yard (building setback line) as
measured from the street line, but which has direct access to a public street
through a narrow strip of land which is part of the same lot. A flag lot
consists of the pole being the narrow strip of land with direct access to a
public street; and the flag, being the part of the lot that widens to achieve
the minimum lot width requirements for the district in which the lot is
located. Flag lots are prohibited.
   7.   Exceptions to Minimum Lot Size.
      A.   Larger lot sizes may be required where lots are affected by resource
restrictions. The minimum lot size required per lot shall be determined by the
district requirements as set forth in Article 6 herein, except that lots with
resource restrictions may be required to be larger than the minimum in
accordance with §
510 of this Article.
      B.   Lot sizes may need to be larger than the specified minimum lot area
in order to accommodate on-lot wastewater disposal systems and to allow for
adequate water supply from on-lot wells.
      C.   If a lot proposed for subdivision is subject to a preferential
assessment under State Act 319, and a new lot would be required by this
Ordinance to be larger than 3 acres, then by special exception, the Zoning
Hearing Board may reduce the lot size to 3 acres if the following additional
requirements are met:
         (1)   The property owner agrees in writing to continue to have the
remainder of the land remain under Act 319 for a minimum of 3 additional years
after the date of the special exception decision without creating any new lots.
         (2)   The requirements of State Act 319 for subdivision shall be met.
         (3)   The subdivision shall meet all other requirements of this
Ordinance.
         (4)   The County Board of Assessment must be notified in writing of
the proposed subdivision. Proof of notification must be submitted to the
Township.
         (5)   Slopes greater than 25 percent shall not be disturbed as part of
the development of the new lot.
   8.   Height. Except for those exceptions provided for herein, the maximum
height of buildings and structures shall be 35 feet. Spires/steeples of places
of worship, belfries, silos, agricultural mechanical equipment, utility lines
and structures, smokestacks, allowed communications towers, and flagpoles may
exceed the maximum height of the district regulations in height provided that
they are set back from all lot lines a distance equal to its height and meet
all other applicable regulations of this Ordinance. Accessory wind-powered
generating facilities (Use H-15), commercial wind-powered generating facilities
(Use F-8), and water towers (under Use F-1) may also exceed the maximum height,
provided they comply with the provisions for such uses in §
404. Ground-mounted solar photovoltaic (PV) panels (Uses F-7 and H-14) may not
exceed 20 feet in height under the provisions in §
404.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   9.   Lots Divided by Municipal Boundaries. In the case of lots divided by
municipal boundaries, the portion of a lot which lies within the Township shall
be subject to the rules and regulations of this Ordinance and only that land
within the Township shall be used in determining the net build able site area.
   10.   Previous Restrictions. No parcel containing any deed restriction,
conservation easement or previous plan restriction forbidding subdivision of
that parcel may be further subdivided under this Ordinance or under the
Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. No use shall be allowed
that would violate a conservation easement or deed restriction that is
enforceable by the Township or an incorporated nature conservancy organization.
   11.   Setbacks from Resource Protected Lands. On lots that include lands
with floodplains, lakes, ponds, riparian buffers or wetland buffers, the
minimum building setback shall be measured from the limit of these resource
protected lands rather than from the lot lines, so that the required minimum
yard areas are free of resource restricted lands.
(Ord. 158, passed 8-24-2010)
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 500; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 27; Ord. 158,
passed 8-24-2010, § 01; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 13; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-
2019)
§ 502 Outdoor Illumination.
   1.   Applicability. The requirements of this Section shall apply to all
outdoor lighting installations as follows:
      A.   Outdoor lighting installations that are designed, constructed,
erected or otherwise placed into operation after the effective date of this
Section.
      B.   Alterations, rehabilitations, or renovations to existing outdoor
lighting installations, which are commenced after the effective date of this
Section, and which involve the replacement of at least 50 percent of an
existing lighting system or components with a new lighting system.
      C.   The requirements of this Section shall not apply to routine
maintenance of outdoor lighting installations. Routine maintenance includes the
following:
         (1)   Replacement of lamps that are burned-out or inoperative with
lamps that do not exceed luminairs of those being replaced.
         (2)   Replacement/repair of damaged or inoperative luminaire
components such as ballasts, igniters, lenses, reflectors, refractors, sockets
or photocell controls.
      D.   Exemptions. The requirements of this Section shall not apply in the
following circumstances:
         (1)   Where superseded by State or Federal law.
         (2)   Temporary emergency lighting used by police, fire, emergency
medical services, public works or other public safety services.
         (3)   Hazard/warning lights required by State or Federal regulations.
         (4)   Public road street lighting.
         (5)   Temporary seasonal holiday lighting provided such lighting shall
not be operated for more than 60 days.
   2.   Adoption by Reference.
      A.   The Township hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, design, layout, installation
and use of outdoor lighting, specifications in the “IESNA Lighting Handbook,”
10th edition, published by the Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America (“IESNA”) and hereby incorporates such recommended practices as fully
as if set forth at length herein, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. From the date on which this Section
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the design,
construction and operation of all outdoor lighting within the Township.
      B.   The recommended practices of the IESNA Lighting Handbook hereby
adopted are amended as follows:
         (1)   All the recommendations made in the Lighting Handbook shall be
considered mandatory requirements. For the purposes of this Section, the words
“should,” “may,” etc., shall be read as “shall” or “must,” the words
“recommend” or “recommendation” shall be read as “require” or “requirement,”
the phrase “it is recommended” shall be read as “it is required,” and the
phrase “it is not recommended” shall be read as “it is prohibited.”
         (2)   Future amendments to the recommended practices of the Lighting
Handbook shall become a part of this Section without further action by the
Township.
         (3)   Where the Lighting Handbook provides for alternatives, this
Section requires that the safest alternative, as determined by the Township, be
used.
      C.   General Design Requirements. The design calculations for outdoor
lighting installations shall be in accordance with the Lighting Handbook. This
includes, but is not limited to, technical definitions, terminology,
calculations methods and procedures, photometric classifications and
photometric testing procedures. Illuminance selection should be based on the
usage of the area to be illuminated, the level of activity, and nighttime
security requirements.
      D.   Illumination Levels. Illumination shall have intensities and
uniformity ratios in accordance with the current recommended practices of IESNA
as contained in the Lighting Handbook.
   3.   General Regulations.
      A.   All outdoor lighting shall be aimed, located, designed, fitted and
maintained so as not to present a hazard (i.e., disabling glare) to drivers or
pedestrians by impairing their ability to safely traverse the lighted area.
      B.   Floodlights and spotlights, when permitted, shall be installed and/
or aimed so that they do not project their output at neighboring residences,
adjacent uses, directly skyward or onto a roadway, so as not to create a
measurable performance standards at lot line as contained in Table 502.1 for a
neighboring use or property.
      C.   Maximum Illuminance at Property Line.
         (1)   The following table lists the maximum permitted illuminance
levels, from all sources, that can be projected onto an adjacent property:
 
Table 502.1
Maximum Maintained Illuminance Levels Produced
by Outdoor Lighting Installations
Permitted at Property Lines
                                          Vertical Footcandles Measured
                                          At 1.5 m (5 Feet) above Final Grade
Property line adjoins a public roadway or 0.5
public right-of-way
Property line adjoins a nonresidential    0.2
property
Property line adjoins a residential       0.1
property
 
         (2)   Designated vehicular, cyclist, and pedestrian entries/exits
between properties and public roadways, streets, highways, alleys, and cartways
are exempt from requirements listed in Table 502.1. The excepted area of
illumination shall not extend beyond 50 feet from the centerline of the
designated entry/exit in any direction along the property line(s) of the said
property.
      D.   Parking facility and vehicular and pedestrian-way lighting (except
for safety and security applications and all-night business operations) for
nonresidential uses shall be automatically extinguished no later than 30
minutes after the close of business or facility operation. When safety or
security lighting is proposed for after-hours illumination, it shall not be in
excess of 25 percent of the number of fixtures or illumination level required
or permitted for illumination during regular business hours. When it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Township than an elevated security risk
exists, (e.g., a history or relevant crime), an appropriate increase above the
25 percent may be permitted.
      E.   Except as otherwise permitted in this Section, fixtures meeting
IESNA full cutoff criteria shall not be mounted in excess of 20 feet above
finished grade. Fixtures not meeting IESNA “full cutoff” criteria shall not be
mounted in excess of 16 feet above grade.
      F.   Fixtures shall be a type and design appropriate to the lighting
application and aesthetically fitting and, where appropriate, based on the
recommendation of the Historic Commission for properties designated on the
Springfield Township List of Historic Structures or in Historic Areas. The use
of searchlights, flashing strobe lights, and laser lights is prohibited.
      G.   Vegetation screens shall not be employed to serve as the primary
means for controlling glare. Glare control shall be achieved primarily through
the use of such means as cutoff fixtures, shields and baffles and appropriate
application of fixture mounting height, wattage, aiming angle and fixture
placement.
      H.   Electrical feeds for lighting standards shall be run underground.
Temporary lighting for permitted special, seasonal events or agricultural work
may employ interim overhead wiring.
      I.   Lighting standards in parking areas shall be placed a minimum of 5
feet outside paved area, or on concrete pedestals at least 30 inches high above
the pavement, or suitably protected by other approved means.
      J.   Luminaires and ancillary equipment shall be maintained to meet the
requirements of this Section.
   4.   Requirements for All Outdoor Area and Private Roadway Lighting
Installations, Except Single- Family Dwelling and Farm Properties (Subsection
.7, Below) and Outdoor Sports and Recreational Facilities (Subsection .5,
Below).
      A.   Use of Full Cutoff Luminaires Required. All luminaires employed in
outdoor area and private roadway lighting installations shall be the full
cutoff luminaire type.
         (1)   The classification of candlepower distribution of a luminaire as
a full cutoff type shall be in accordance with the IESNA Lighting Handbook. The
manufacturer of the luminaire shall provide certification of the full cutoff
classification based on photometric testing performed in accordance with the
Lighting Handbook and the applicable testing procedures referenced therein. The
requirement for the use of full cutoff luminaire types shall include, but is
not limited to, the following outdoor area and roadway lighting configurations:
            (a)   Pole-mounted luminaires.
            (b)   Luminaires mounted on the exterior of buildings and
structures.
            (c)   Luminaires mounted on or within exterior canopies of
buildings and structures.
            (d)   Pedestal or bollard mounted luminaires.
         (2)   Full cutoff luminaires shall be mounted plumb and level in
accordance with the intended application of their design. For the purposes of
this requirement, the photometric nadir of the luminaire (0-degree vertical
angle of the candlepower distribution) shall be oriented plumb, and the
vertical angle of 90 degrees above nadir (horizontal) shall be oriented level.
Full cutoff luminaires shall not be installed in a canted or tilted position
that permits light distribution above the horizontal.
         (3)   Luminaires that do not meet the strict definition for full
cutoff luminaires, yet employ advanced or alternative technology that causes
the photometric performance to approach that of full cutoff luminaires, may be
approved by the Township, on a case-by-case basis. Such luminaires include, but
are not limited to, period-style luminaires with refractive globes and internal
cutoff reflectors. At a minimum, all period-style decorative luminaires, when
their use is approved by the Township for a specific application, shall be
cutoff luminaires.
      B.   Illumination Under Outdoor Canopies. All outdoor under canopy
lighting for such applications as gas/service stations, hotel/theater marquees,
fast food/bank/drugstore drive-ups shall comply with the requirements of this
subsection. All such canopy lighting shall be accomplished using flat-lens
full-cutoff fixtures aimed straight down and shielded in such a manner that the
lowest opaque edge of the fixture shall be level with or below the light
source. Canopies themselves may not be illuminated, however, with the exception
of the portion that is classified as a sign.
   5.   Outdoor Sports and Recreational Lighting. These regulations shall apply
to all public and private sports and recreational facilities including, but not
limited to, ballfields, ballparks, stadiums, tennis courts, soccer fields,
recreation fields, swimming pools, skating rinks, and the like. Where
permitted, the outdoor lighting of sports and recreational facilities shall
comply with the following requirements:
      A.   All sports and recreational facilities shall be illuminated with the
following two systems:
         (1)   Performance Area Lighting. This is the lighting directed upon
the field, court, rink, etc., to illuminate the sports/recreational activity
taking place upon/within that facility. The maximum permitted post heights for
the performance area lighting is 60 feet. Post height shall be limited to
minimum height necessary to meet the performance area lighting needs of that
specific sports/recreational use as determined by the Township, based on
evaluation of the proposed lighting plan.
         (2)   General Area Lighting. This is a low-level lighting system used
to facilitate pedestrian circulation, patrons leaving the facility, cleanup,
nighttime maintenance, etc. General area lighting shall meet all the
requirements for outdoor area and roadway lighting installations listed above
in subsection .4.
      B.   Use of Full Cutoff Luminaries Required. All luminaires employed in
outdoor sports and recreational lighting installations shall be the full cutoff
luminaire type unless the performance area lighting needs of the sports/
recreational use cannot be met through the use of full cutoff luminaires, as
determined by the Township, based on evaluation of the proposed lighting plan.
      C.   Use of Glare Shields Required for Non-cutoff Luminary Types. Where
non-cutoff luminaires, such as floodlights, are specifically permitted by the
Township for performance area lighting, the luminaires shall be equipped with
glare shields, visors, barn doors or other similar shielding accessories as
required, to the extent practicable, to cut off candlepower distribution at
angles below the horizontal (level) to restrict direct illumination to within
the performance area being illuminated for sports and recreation purposes.
      D.   Design Submittal and Approval Requirements. The design for all
outdoor sports and recreation lighting installations shall be submitted for
review and approval by the Township, according to the requirements of the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, §
403.
      E.   Permission to illuminate such facilities shall be granted only when
the Township is satisfied that the health, safety and welfare rights of nearby
property owners and the Township as a whole have been properly protected. All
sports and recreational lighting shall be extinguished when the performance
area is not in use. In addition, the performance area lighting shall be turned
off no more than 30 minutes after the end of the event or use of the sports-
recreational facility.
      F.   For-profit recreational facilities can be illuminated only in the HC
or PI Districts.
   6.   Requirements for Outdoor Nonresidential Sign Lighting, Outdoor lighting
of Facades of Buildings and Structures and Outdoor Landscape Lighting.
      A.   Applicability of Requirements. The requirements of this subsection
apply to all outdoor lighting installations employed for the nighttime
illumination of signs, billboards, the facades of buildings and structures,
fountains, trees, shrubs, vegetation and the like.
      B.   Use of Full Cutoff Luminaries Required. All luminaires employed in
outdoor lighting of signs, facades and landscape shall be of the full cutoff
luminaire type.
      C.   See Article 9 for regulations regarding illumination of signs and
billboards.
      D.   Fixtures used for architectural lighting, e.g., facade, fountain,
feature and landscape lighting shall be designed, fitted and aimed so as not to
project their output beyond the objects intended to be illuminated.
      E.   All outdoor lighting falling under the requirements of this
subsection shall be extinguished between 11 p.m. and dawn. This restriction
does not apply to nonresidential uses that are open between the hours of 11
p.m. and dawn, in which case the lighting must be extinguished when the
nonresidential use is closed.
   7.   Requirements for Residential and Farm Outdoor Lighting.
      A.   Applicability of Requirements. The requirements of this subsection
apply to all outdoor lighting installations located on residential lots
developed with a single-family dwelling, a two- family dwelling, or a farm.
Luminaries with an aggregate rated output of 500 lumens (approximately the
intensity of a standard 40-watt incandescent lamp) are exempt from the
requirements of this subsection.
      B.   Use of Glare Shields Required for Non-cutoff Luminaire Types. All
non-cutoff luminaires, such as floodlights, shall be equipped with glare
shields, visors, barn doors, or other similar shielding accessories as required
to meet the following criteria:
         (1)   For area lighting applications, the candlepower distribution
from all luminaires shall be cutoff at and above the horizontal (level).
         (2)   For all other applications, the candlepower distribution from
all luminaires shall be cutoff at all angles beyond those required to restrict
direct illumination to within the area or surface being illuminated.
   8.   Temporary Outdoor Lighting.
      A.   Applicability of Requirements. The requirements of this subsection
apply to all outdoor lighting installations which are employed on a temporary
basis not exceeding 30-days in duration. Temporary lighting installations
include, but are not limited to, carnivals, community fairs, traveling
circuses, and the like.
      B.   Use of Glare Shield Required for Non-cutoff Luminaire Types. All
non-cutoff luminaires such as floodlights shall be equipped with glare shields,
visors, barn doors, and other similar shielding accessories as required to
cutoff candlepower distribution at all angles beyond those required to restrict
direct illumination to within the perimeter of the area, surface, object or
feature being illuminated.
   9.   Lighting Plan. The design for all nonresidential (commercial,
industrial, institutional, sport and recreational) outdoor area and private
roadway lighting installations, excluding agricultural installations, shall be
submitted for review and approval by the Township prior to issuance of a zoning
permit and construction of the outdoor lighting installation. Requirements for
the lighting plan are detailed in the Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance, §
403.
   10.   Post-Installation Inspection.
      A.   The Township reserves the right to conduct a post-installation
nighttime inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this
Ordinance, and if appropriate, to require remedial action at no expense to the
Township.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 501; Ord. 170, passed 6-24-2014, Art. II)
§ 503 Buffer Yards.
   1.   General Buffer Requirements.
      A.   Landscape buffers shall contain trees, evergreens, shrubs,
groundcovers, berms, fences, or a combination of these features, placed along a
street or property line for the purposes of separating one land use from
another land use, or to shield or block lights, noise, or visual impacts, and
to preserve the natural landscape of the Township.
      B.   No structures, buildings, uses, storage of materials, or parking
shall be permitted in the buffer yards. Access driveways may cross buffer yards
provided that they are perpendicular to the property line. Trails and sidewalks
may be located at the edge of a required buffer, provided that the required
planting is not diminished. Detention/retention basins and grading required for
basin berms/slopes constructed as part of a stormwater management plan shall
not be permitted in a required buffer yard.
      C.   Where vegetation exists that meet the objectives and planting
standards of the buffer requirements, it shall be preserved and may be used to
meet the buffer and planting requirements. Quantities, size, species, genus,
and locations of existing materials must be shown on plans and verified by the
Township. Where the Township allows existing vegetation to be counted toward
meeting the buffer requirements of this Ordinance, the vegetation shall not be
removed except for dead plants, or exotic invasive species, and noxious weeds
as defined by Act 72 of 1994, as amended. Additional plantings shall be
required if the existing vegetation is not adequate to meet the buffer
standards for density, width, or size. The vegetation shall be protected by
recorded plan note to insure that it remains as a part of the subdivision or
land development.
      D.   The buffer yard may overlap the required front yards and in case of
conflict, the larger dimensional requirement shall apply. Buffer areas shall be
provided in addition to the required minimum side and rear yards if needed to
provide a minimum depth of 25 feet, as measured from the principle structure,
which is exclusive of the required buffer. Where buffers are required, they
shall be provided along the entire length of the property line (except for Type
4 and Type 5 buffers). Any fencing shall be placed on the inside of required
buffer plantings, unless approved in another location for a quarry. Planting
designs that have a naturalistic appearance with a mix of species will give
privacy but do not block views or vistas are recommended, as opposed to rigid
rows of the same species.
      E.   All buffer yards shall be maintained and kept clean of all debris.
Required buffer plantings shall not be removed as long as they are viable.
      F.   Buffers shall be required as specified in this Section where the
uses to be buffered are directly abutting as well as where the uses are across
a street from each other.
      G.   Minimum width buffer yards do not count as open space. However,
required open space may be used to meet the requirements for buffers where the
open space has a minimum contiguous area of 4 acres and a minimum width of 200
feet.
      H.   Easements shall be provided for all buffers; a buffer easement shall
be shown on all plans. The easement shall require that the property owner be
responsible for maintenance of the buffer area and all vegetation within the
buffer easement.
      I.   If a buffer already exists on an adjacent property that meets the
requirements of this Ordinance, additional buffering shall not be required when
a new use is established. If the existing buffer is substandard, additional
area and plantings shall be added to meet the ordinance requirements.
      J.   The screen planting shall be spaced so that at maturity it will not
be closer than 3 feet from any right-of-way nor shall it encroach upon a
required clear sight triangle.
   2.   Summary of Buffer Locations and Types.
                   Type of Buffer
Required Locations 1 2 3 4 5
                                                     Type of Buffer
Required Locations                                   1 2 3 4 5
Nonresidential/residential separation buffers        X
Single-family/multi-family separation buffers        X
Reverse frontage buffers                               X
Farmland preservation buffer                             X
Visual screen for storage and maintenance activities       X
Around parking lots                                          X
 
   3.   Types of Buffers.
      A.   Nonresidential/Residential Separation Buffers. Type 1 buffer shall
be provided wherever a nonresidential use abuts a residential use or a
residentially zoned district.
      B.   Single-Family/Multi-Family Separation Buffers. Type 1 buffers shall
be provided wherever a multi-family residential development, townhouse/attached
development or a mobile home park abuts a single-family residential use or
district. The buffer shall be located on the multi-family or mobile home park
property.
      C.   Reverse Frontage Buffers. Type 2 buffers shall be provided where a
rear or side yard of any residential or nonresidential use abuts an arterial or
collector road, or any existing perimeter street not part of a new development.
      D.   Farmland Preservation Buffer. Type 3 buffer yard shall be required
where residential or nonresidential uses abut farmland.
      E.   Visual Screen for Storage and Maintenance Activities. Type 4 buffer
yard, which shall include fence and plantings sufficient to provide a visual
screen.
      F.   Parking lot periphery for retail and consumer service, institutional
and office uses. Type 5 buffer, consisting of a landscaped area 20 feet in
width provided at the periphery of all lots used for retail and consumer
service, office or industrial activities. Where a larger buffer is required by
other sections of this Ordinance the larger buffer shall be provided.
   4.   Buffer Dimension and Planting Requirements.
      A.   Type 1 Buffer. Buffer design and plant materials (nonresidential/
residential separation buffer and single-family/multi-family separation buffer)
shall be as follows:
         (1)   Buffer width–25 feet.
         (2)   Screened planted area–minimum of 25 feet.
         (3)   Berming may be provided if it contributes to the screening
effect and if it can be blended into the topography. The undulating berms shall
vary between 3 and 6 feet in height and shall meander in a naturalistic fashion
without adversely affecting drainage. Slope ratios shall not be less than 3 to
1 (horizontal to vertical).
         (4)   Plant materials shall comply with the requirements of the
following chart:
 
Type 1 Buffer Planting Requirements
Plant Types            Size                        Plant Quantities Required
Evergreens             6 to 7 feet in height       one evergreen per 20 feet of
                                                   buffer length
                                                   one shade tree per every
Shade trees            3 to 3½ inch caliper       three evergreens or
                                                   approximately one per 60
                                                   feet of buffer length
                                                   one flower tree per every
Flowering trees        8 to 10 feet in height;     three evergreens or
                       2½ inch caliper            approximately one per 60
                                                   feet of buffer length
                                                   five shrubs for every one
                                                   evergreen tree or
                                                   approximately one per 4 feet
                                                   of buffer length; planted in
                                                   naturalistic groupings of
Shrubs                 minimum of 4 feet in height mixed plant varieties and
                                                   sizes in masses within
                                                   mulched planning beds; not
                                                   more than 75 percent being
                                                   deciduous varieties and not
                                                   less than 50 percent being
                                                   flowering varieties
                                                   10 plants per every one
                                                   shrub; planted in masses
Ground-covering plants 18 inch maximum height at   with shrub beds at a rate of
                       maturity                    1 per square foot of shrub
                                                   bed area with a minimum of
                                                   10 plants for each shrub.
 
      B.   Type 2 Buffer. Buffer design and plant materials (reverse frontage
buffer) shall be as follows:
         (1)   Buffer width–100 feet.
         (2)   Screened planted area–minimum of 50 feet closest to the street
or bordering lot line.
         (3)   Preserve existing trees and supplement with shade-tolerant
evergreens, trees and shrubs selected from plant list in the Township
Subdivision/Land Development Ordinance.
         (4)   Planted area shall completely screen the views of abutting yards
from the street from ground level to 6 feet above ground level at plan
maturity.
         (5)   Berming may be provided; vertically and horizontally meandering
berms suggesting a rolling landscape shall be incorporated into the grading
design without adversely affecting drainage. Berms shall be 3 to 6 feet in
height and shall vary in height and slope. Slope to height ratios shall not be
less than 3 to 1.
 
Buffer Type 2 Planting Requirements
Plant Types     Size                   Plant Quantities Required
Shade trees     3 to 3½ inch caliper  50 trees per 1,000 linear feet of buffer
                                       length
Evergreens      6 to 7 feet in height  50 trees per 1,000 linear feet of buffer
                                       length
Flowering trees 8 to 10 feet in height 10 trees per 1,000 linear feet of buffer
                                       length
Shrubs          4 feet in height       150 shrubs per 1,000 linear feet of
                                       buffer length
 
      C.   Type 3 Buffer. Buffer design and plant material (farmland buffer)
shall be as follows:
         (1)   Buffer width–25 feet.
         (2)   Planted area–minimum of 10 feet in width.
         (3)   The farmland area shall be separated from the residential area
by a fence placed on the property line.
         (4)   The 10 feet immediately adjacent to the fence shall be planted
with inkberry holly, bayberry and red twig dogwood or other shrub material as
approved by the Township in informal groupings to achieve a naturalized
farmland buffer as an adequate separation between farmland and developed land.
         (5)   The remaining 15 feet abutting the farmland shall be planted in
grasses or wildflowers to be mowed or ground-covering plants on a slope not to
exceed a 4 to 1 (horizontal to vertical).
 
Buffer Type 3 Planting Requirements
Plant Types Size             Plant Quantities Required
Shrubs      4 feet in height 150 shrubs per 1,000 linear feet of buffer length
 
      D.   Type 4 Buffer. Buffer design and plant materials shall be as
follows:
         (1)   Buffer shall consist of a solid fence with evergreen plantings
along the exterior face to be planted around storage areas and yards to provide
security and a complete visual screen. Buffer width shall be wide enough to
accommodate a fence and evergreens or shrubs abutting the fence.
         (2)   A buffer wide enough to accommodate a fence and plantings
abutting the fence is required.
         (3)   A solid fence shall be provided. The fence height shall be
adequate to provide a complete visual screen from adjoining properties but not
to exceed 8 feet in height. Fence details shall be provided with the landscape
plan. Along the exterior face of the fence there shall be a row of shrubs and/
or evergreens in a hedging habit planted at a rate to obscure the appearance of
the fencing after a 5-year growing period. Minimum shrub and upright habit
evergreen height at planting shall be 4 feet.
 
Buffer Type 4 Planting Requirements
Plant Types Size                       Plant Quantities Required
Evergreen   6 feet to 7 feet in height 50 trees per 1,000 linear feet of buffer
                                       length
Shrubs      4 feet in height           150 shrubs per 1,000 linear feet of
                                       buffer length
 
      E.   Type 5 Buffer. Buffer design and plant materials shall be as
follows:
         (1)   A 20-feet wide buffer area is required.
         (2)   Shrubs with a planted minimum height of 3 feet shall be
installed, with shade trees interspersed, in a continuous band with a spacing
not exceeding 5 feet on center for shrubs and 30 feet on center for trees.
Walls and/or fencing may be integrated with the required planting.
 
Buffer Type 5 Planting Requirements
Plant Types Size             Plant Quantities Required
Shade trees 3½ inch caliper 34 trees per 1,000 linear feet of buffer length
Shrubs      3 feet in height 200 shrubs per 1,000 linear feet of buffer length
 
   5.   Planting Requirements near Overhead Utility Lines.
      A.   Where street trees are to be planted along streets with overhead
power lines, the following requirements shall be met:
         (1)   If trees are to be planted within 15 feet of a utility pole or
line, measured along the ground from the base of the pole, only trees which
grow no taller than 25 feet shall be planted.
         (2)   If trees are to be planted within 15–25 feet of a utility pole
or line, measured along the ground from the base of the pole, only trees which
grow no taller than 40 feet shall be planted. Refer to Township Plant List in
the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance for specifications and
acceptable trees.
   6.   Existing Trees in Right-of-Way. Trees in the right-of-way of Township
roads, where the right- of-way belongs to the Township, shall not be removed
without Township approval except within the clear sight triangle and except for
the removal of dead or unhealthy trees or nonnative invasive trees. All trees
within the right-of-way shall be included in the landscape plan.
   7.   The following characteristics shall be considered when selecting trees
and shrubs for buffer planting:
      A.   Wildlife values–provision of food and habitat for wildlife.
      B.   Species longevity.
      C.   Native to the area.
      D.   Maintaining the diversity of species in the area.
      E.   Hardiness (wind firmness, climate requirements, characteristics of
soil to hold tree).
      F.   Existence of disease, rot, or other damage to tree.
      G.   Susceptibility of insect and disease attack and to pollution.
      H.   Aesthetic values (autumn, coloration, type of flowers or fruit, form
characteristics).
      I.   Maintenance and care (pruning, etc.).
      J.   Comfort to surroundings (summer shade).
      K.   Protection of buildings, vehicles and pedestrians.
      L.   Size at maturity.
      M.   Effect of soil retention and erosion control.
      N.   Value as a noise buffer.
      O.   Invasive species of trees and plants shall be avoided and may be
removed, such as Norway Maples.
   8.   Buffers may be reduced or eliminated at the discretion of the Board of
Supervisors in the VR and VC District only, where buffering would adversely
affect the mix of uses and activities in a village setting.
   9.   The screen planting shall be maintained permanently and any plant
material which does not live shall be replaced within 8 months by the current
owner. Financial security shall be posted with the Township in an amount equal
to the estimated cost of trees and plantings, to be released 18 months from the
date of acceptance of installation. A plan for perpetual care of the buffer
area shall be provided to the Township. Failure to maintain the required buffer
shall be considered a violation of this Ordinance. Use of existing vegetation
is encouraged and it may be used to meet or partially meet requirements of this
Ordinance if acceptable to the Township.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 502)
§ 504 Off-Street Parking Requirements.
   1.   All off-street parking, loading, access facilities and service areas
used by motor vehicles shall comply with the following provisions and with the
parking requirements set forth in Article 4. All required parking spaces shall
be provided off-street and on the same lot as the principal use served, except
that the Zoning Hearing Board may approve parking on an adjacent commercially-
zoned lot as a special exception if the applicant proves that an appropriate
legal mechanism will be in place to ensure that the parking continues to be
available as long as the use is in operation.
   2.   Structures and uses in existence at the date of adoption of this
Ordinance shall not be subject to the requirements of this Article so long as
the kind or extent of use is not changed, provided that any parking facility
now serving such structures or uses shall not in the future be reduced below
its current extent or below what is required by this Ordinance.
   3.   Whenever there is an alteration of a use which increases the parking
requirements, the total additional parking required for the alteration, changes
or extension shall be provided in accordance with this Ordinance.
   4.   Parking space and travel aisle dimension shall be in conformance with
Chapter 153, Appendix A, § 524.
   5.   Shared Parking for Mixed Uses.
      A.   The parking requirements for each individual use within a mixed use
development shall be met.
      B.   Two or more uses may provide for required parking in a common
parking lot if the total space provided is not less than the sum of the spaces
required for each use individually. However, the number of spaces required in a
common parking facility may be reduced below this total if it can be
demonstrated to the Board of Supervisors that the hours or days of peak parking
needed for the uses are so different that a lower total will provide adequately
for all uses served by the facility. Area for spaces which are required but not
built under this provision shall be reserved in accordance with subsection .6
below.
   6.   Reservation of Nonresidential Parking Areas. In order to prevent the
establishment of more parking spaces than are immediately needed, the Board of
Supervisors may allow for a portion of the required parking area to be built at
a later date, provided that the following conditions are met:
      A.   The parking lot design must designate sufficient space to meet the
total parking requirements. The plan shall illustrate the layout for the total
number of spaces.
      B.   A minimum of 60 percent of the required spaces shall be built with
the completion of the project. An area adequate to accommodate the remaining 40
percent may be reserved as open land until needed. The reserved area shall not
include any required buffers, setbacks, or yard areas in which parking would
not be permitted under this Ordinance. The percentage of parking spaces to be
constructed with the completion of the project shall be determined by the Board
of Supervisors, provided that the minimum 60 percent requirement shall be met
in any case.
      C.   A landscape plan for the reserved area shall be provided and
approved by the Board of Supervisors.
      D.   As a condition of receiving an occupancy permit, the applicant shall
establish a performance bond and an agreement shall be executed with the
Township and recorded to construct the additional spaces if the Board of
Supervisors determines that they are needed. This agreement shall apply to any
future owners of the property.
      E.   The reserved parking area cannot be used to meet the parking
requirements for future expansions of the facility, unless it is specifically
released in writing by the Board of Supervisors if the applicant proves that it
was unneeded based upon actual experience.
      F.   The stormwater management system of the lot shall be designed so
that it can be improved to serve the full parking area, if needed.
   7.   Parking in Required Yard Areas. Parking spaces for nonresidential
principal uses may occupy up to 25 percent of the required front yard setback
area and shall not occupy any required buffer yard.
   8.   Location of Parking Areas. Off-street parking shall be located to the
side or rear of the principal structure rather than in front of the principal
structure wherever possible.
   9.   Maintenance of Parking Areas. For parking areas of three or more
spaces, the area not landscaped shall be graded, surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, paving block or other suitable low-dust material approved by the
Township, and drained to the satisfaction of the Township Engineer to the
extent necessary to prevent dust, erosion, or excessive water flow. All parking
spaces shall be marked so as to indicate their location.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 503; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 505 Access Drives.
   1.   For the purpose of servicing any property held in single and separate
ownership, entrance and exit drives crossing the street lot line shall be
limited to two along the frontage of any single street, and their center lines
shall be spaced at least 200 feet apart. No driveway shall be placed closer to
any street intersection than 40 feet.
   2.   All access drives shall be at least 5 feet from any side or rear lot
line except where a driveway provides shared access to adjoining properties.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 504; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 28; Ord. 191,
passed 1-8-2019)
§ 506 Off-Street Loading and Unloading Requirements.
   1.   Adequate off-street loading and unloading space with proper access from
a street, highway, common service driveway or alley shall be provided for all
nonresidential uses. Such space shall be sufficient in size and design to
accommodate the maximum demand generated by the use of the lot.
   2.   All areas for the loading and unloading of delivery trucks and other
vehicles and for servicing of establishments and/or shops by refuse collection,
fuel or other service vehicles, shall have adequate and unobstructed access
from a street, service driveway or alley and shall be so arranged that they may
be used without blocking or otherwise interfering with the use of automobile
access ways, parking facilities, or pedestrian ways or backing out onto a
street.
   3.   All areas shall be properly surfaced and adequately drained and shall
be constructed in accordance with standards established by the Township.
   4.   All loading berths shall be located at the side or rear of the property
and shall be screened from view by fencing or landscaped buffers.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 505)
§ 507 Provisions and Use of Water.
   1.   No wells may be dug or drilled on the premises except as permitted by
the appropriate State, Bucks County Health Department, Township or other
governmental authorities.
   2.   A zoning permit shall be conditioned upon receipt of a well permit from
the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 506)
§ 508 Performance Standards.
   1.   Smoke, Ash, Dust, Fumes, Vapors, Odors and Gases.
      A.   There shall be no emission of smoke, ash, dust, fumes, vapors, or
gases which violate State or Federal Air Pollution Control laws and
regulations. No use shall generate odors or dust that are offensive to persons
of average sensitivities beyond the boundaries of the subject lot.
      B.   The emission of dust, dirt, fly ash, fumes, vapors or gases which
can cause any damage to health, to animals or vegetation or other forms of
property, or which can cause injury to persons or damage to property of others
at any point beyond the lot line of the use creating the emission is herewith
prohibited.
      C.   See the preemption of certain matters in the Pennsylvania Right-to-
Farm Act.
   2.   Noise.
      A.   No principal or accessory use, or operations or activities on its
lot, shall generate a sound level exceeding the limits established in the table
below, when measured at the specified locations:
      B.   Sound Level Limits by Receiving Land Use/District.
 
Land Use or Zoning District Receiving the Noise                            Hours/Days                                                                     Maximum Sound
                                                                                                                                                          Level
                                                                           (1)   7 a.m. to 9 p.m. other than Sundays, Christmas Day, Thanksgiving Day, (1)   60 dBA
                                                                           New Years Day, Labor Day and Memorial Day                                       
(1)   At a lot line of a residential use in a residential district (all                                                                                
districts except PI/HC)                                                    (2)   9 p.m. to 7 a.m. plus all of the following days: Sundays, Christmas,   
                                                                           Thanksgiving, New Years, Easter Sunday, Labor Day and Memorial Day              
                                                                                                                                                          (2)   54 dBA
                                                                           (1)   Same as above                                                         (1)   65 dBA
(2)   Lot line of a residential use in a commercial or industrial distri                                                                               
                                                                           (2)   Same as above                                                         (2)   60 dBA
(3)   Any lot line other than (1) or (2)                                All times and days                                                             70 dBA
Note: dBA means “A” weighted decibel.
 
      C.   The maximum permissible sound level limits set forth in the above
table shall not apply to any of the following noise sources:
         (1)   Sound needed to alert people about an emergency.
         (2)   Repair or installation of utilities or construction of
structures, sidewalks or streets between the hours of 7 a.m. and 8 p.m., except
for clearly emergency repairs which are not restricted by time.
         (3)   Lawnmowers, snow blowers, leaf blowers, and household power
tools between the hours of 7 a.m. and 9 p.m.
         (4)   Pets, agricultural activities, and livestock, but not exempting
a commercial kennel.
         (5)   Public celebrations, festivals, charitable fundraising
activities and special events specifically authorized by the Township
Supervisors or a county, State or Federal government agency or body.
         (6)   Unamplified human voices.
         (7)   Routine ringing of bells and chimes by a place of worship or
municipal clock.
         (8)   Vehicles operating on a public street, railroads and aircraft.
         (9)   Snowmaking as part of a commercial recreation use.
         (10)   Occasional target practice by a person during daylight hours on
their own property.
      D.   Pure Tone Penalty. In the event audible noise contains a steady pure
tone, such as a whine, screech, or hum, the standards for audible noise shall
be reduced by 5 dB(A). A pure tone is defined to exist when: the one-third
octave band sound pressure level in the band, including the tone, exceeds the
arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels on the two contiguous one-third
octave bands by 5 dB(A) for center frequencies of 500 Hz and above, and 8 dB(A)
for center frequencies between 160 and 400 Hz, and by 15 dB(A) for center
frequencies less than or equal to 125 Hz.
      E.   Repetitive, Impulsive Sound Penalty. In the event the audible noise
contains repetitive, impulsive sounds, the standards for audible noise shall be
reduced by 5 dB(A).
      F.   Pure tone and Repetitive, Impulsive Tone Penalty. In the event the
audible noise contains both a pure tone and repetitive impulsive sounds, the
standards for audible noise shall be reduced by a total of 5 dB(A).
      G.   If the ambient noise level (exclusive of the development in
question) exceeds the applicable standard given above, the applicable standard
shall be adjusted so as to equal the ambient noise level. The ambient noise
level shall be expressed in terms of the highest whole number sound pressure in
dBA, which is exceeded for more than 5 minutes per hour. Ambient noise levels
shall be measured at the property lines of the parcel in question.
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
   3.   Glare or Heat. Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building or behind adequate shielding in such a
manner as not to create a nuisance to those working or living in the area.
   4.   Radioactivity or Electrical Disturbance. There shall be no activities
which emit dangerous radioactivity at any point. There shall be no electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation at any point of any equipment
other than that of the creator of such disturbance. If any use is proposed
which incorporates the use of radioactive material, equipment, or supplies,
such use shall be in strict conformity with Title 25 of the DEP Regulations.
   5.   Outdoor Storage and Waste Disposal and Dumpster Screening.
      A.   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products,
and all fuel, raw materials and products stored outdoors shall be enclosed by a
fence adequate to provide security for the property. Storage of flammable
materials and fuels shall meet the National Fire Prevention Code and
regulations of DEP. All underground storage tanks shall be registered with the
State pursuant to State law. Outdoor storage facilities shall be separated by a
buffer yard meeting §
503 from any street or residential lot or residential district. This subsection
shall not apply to farm or residential tanks of 1,100 gallons or less capacity
used for noncommercial purposes.
      B.   No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in such form or
manner that may be transferred off the lot by natural causes or forces. Dikes
must be constructed around above ground liquid storage facilities to preclude
such transference in the event of failure of the facility. Hazardous substances
shall not be kept in a drainageway and shall not be discharged into a waterway,
swale or drainage device, nor into the 100-year floodplain, any riparian buffer
or wetland.
         (1)   See regulations in the Floodplain Article (Article 7) that
regulate the storage of hazardous substances in the 100-year floodplain. See
also any regulations in the source water and wellhead protection regulations in
§
517.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      C.   All materials or wastes which might cause flames or dust, or which
constitute a fire hazard, or which may be edible or otherwise attractive to
rodents or insects, shall be stored outdoors only in enclosed containers
adequate to eliminate such hazards and in accordance with all State and Federal
regulations. Storage shall not occur in a manner that could cause contamination
of a stream.
      D.   Hazardous material or waste may not be stored in the 100-year
floodplain, any riparian buffer or wetland.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      E.   Trash Dumpster and Location.
         (1)   Any newly placed solid waste dumpster shall be screened on at
least three of four sides as necessary to screen views from public streets and
dwellings.
         (2)   Such screening shall consist of decorative masonry walls, mostly
solid weather- resistant wood fencing, fencing of a similar appearance, or
primarily evergreen plantings.
         (3)   To the maximum extent feasible, as determined by the Zoning
Officer, an outdoor solid waste container with a capacity of over 15 cubic feet
shall be kept a minimum of 20 feet from the walls of a dwelling on an abutting
lot.
         (4)   If a solid waste dumpster is moved from one part of a lot to
another part of a lot, then it shall come into compliance with this Section.
         (5)   This Section shall not apply to dumpsters temporarily placed
during actual construction or demolition on the premises.
         (6)   If a building includes four or more dwelling units, then the
owner shall provide at least one solid waste dumpster with a lid and have it
regularly emptied.
   6.   Waste and Sewage.
      A.   No use shall be conducted in such a way as to discharge any treated
or untreated sewage or industrial waste or wash water or residential chemicals
from industrial and commercial equipment into any reservoir, lake, or
watercourse or discharge any untreated sewage or industrial waste into any
stream. All methods of industrial waste treatment and disposal shall be
approved by the Township, DEP and/or the County Health Department.
      B.   Any wastewater treatment facility shall be properly maintained and
operated so as to comply with the permitted effluent pollutant levels and
within their design capabilities at all times.
      C.   Central Water Service. A use shall not be considered to be served by
central water service unless:
         (1)   All applicable requirements of State regulations and the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance are met.
         (2)   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township that
there will be an appropriate system in place to guarantee and properly fund the
long-term operation and maintenance of the system by a qualified professional
operator.
         (3)   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township, based
upon review of the Township Engineer, that the system will include adequate
supply, transmission capacity and pressure to serve the development.
      D.   Central Sewage Service. A use shall not be considered to be served
by “central sewage service” unless:
         (1)   All applicable requirements of State regulations and the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance are met.
         (2)   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township that
there will be an appropriate system in place to guarantee and properly fund the
long-term operation and maintenance of the system by a qualified professional
operator.
         (3)   The applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Township, based
upon review of the Township Engineer, that the system will include adequate
treatment capacity and conveyance capacity to serve the development.
      E.   On-Lot Septic Systems.
         (1)   Purpose. To ensure that a suitable location is available for a
new sewage disposal area if the original sewage disposal area should
malfunction.
         (2)   This Section shall only apply to a lot that is officially
submitted for subdivision or land development approval after the adoption of
this Ordinance.
         (3)   Each lot shall include both a primary and a reserve sewage
disposal area location. Both locations shall be determined by the County Health
Department to meet PA Department of Environmental Protection regulations for a
septic system location prior to approval of the final subdivision or land
development plan.
         (4)   The requirement for a reserve sewage disposal area shall not
apply to the following:
            (a)   The simple merger of two or more existing lots, or an
adjustment to lot lines of an existing lot.
            (b)   A vacant lot that includes a permanent deed restriction or
conservation easement prohibiting any construction of buildings on the lot.
            (c)   Lots within a subdivision or land development that will abut
a complete capped sewage system constructed by the developer, the design of
which has been approved by the Township.
            (d)   A spray irrigation system.
         (5)   The reserve septic system location shall be kept clear of
buildings, structures and parking, and shall be shown on any subsequent
applications for new or expanded buildings or parking. The reserve septic
location is to not be planted in trees and the soil shall remain in place with
minimal disturbance. The Township may require that the location be recorded on
the deed.
      F.   Expansion of Septic Use. If the Zoning Officer has reason to believe
that a proposed increase in the number of dwelling units or expansion or change
of a nonresidential use would result in increased flow to a septic system, then
the application shall be referred to the County Health Department. The County
Health Department shall require modification, expansion or replacement of the
septic system if necessary to handle the proposed flow.
   7.   Electrical, Diesel, Gas or Other Power. Every use requiring power shall
be so operated that the service lines, substations and similar facilities shall
conform to the highest safety requirements known, shall be so constructed and
installed so as to be an integral part of the architectural features of the
plant. Electric substations shall be separated from any street and abutting lot
lines by a buffer yard meeting §
503.
   8.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control . All earth disturbance
activities must be in compliance with the regulations of DEP and the County
Conservation District standards and must be undertaken in accordance with a
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan that meets the requirements of the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance and Stormwater Ordinance.
   9.   Utilities. All newly installed service lines of public utilities and
similar facilities servicing any proposed development shall be installed
underground.
   10.   Vibration. No use shall cause vibration of the ground on another lot
that is perceptible to persons without the use of instruments. No vibration
shall be produced which is transmitted through the ground and is discernable
without the aid of instruments at or beyond any lot line; nor shall any use
cause earth vibrations or concussions in excess of the standards outlined
below, with the exception of that vibration produced as a result of
construction activity. Vibration shall be expressed as displacement in inches
and shall be measured with a standard three component measuring system, which
is a device for recording the intensity of any vibration in three mutually
perpendicular directions. Single impulse aperiodic vibrations occurring at an
average interval greater than 5 minutes shall not induce accelerations
exceeding .01g.
 
Frequency of Ground Motion in Cycles per Maximum Amplitude of Ground Motion in
Second                                   Inches, not more than:
up to 10                                 0.0305
20                                       0.0153
30                                       0.0102
40                                       0.0076
50                                       0.0061
60                                       0.0051
 
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 507; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 29; Ord. 173,
passed 1-5-2015, § 08)
§ 509 Environmental Protection Standards.
   1.   Applicability. All activities and uses established after the effective
date of this Ordinance shall comply with the following standards. Any site
alterations, regrading, filling, or clearing of vegetation shall be done only
after the granting of a zoning permit, in accordance with Article 12 or the
approval of subdivision or land development plans in accordance with the
Township Subdivision or Land Development Ordinance and the approval of building
permits.
      A.   Natural resources that are regulated by §
509 shall not be disturbed or altered prior to the application for a Township
permit and approval by the Township. If healthy trees are removed, land is
graded, or land drained for agriculture less than three (3) years before an
application is submitted for a Township permit or subdivision or development
approval under §
509 , then such trees shall be presumed to have been removed, land graded or
land drained in anticipation of the development, and the land shall be
regulated as if the trees, watercourses or wetlands and pre-existing graded
were still in place. In no case shall total woodland preservation on a property
fall below the standards enumerated in table
509.B.
         (1)   If trees were removed in excess of the limits set forth in
Township ordinances, the current landowner or developer shall be required to
replace trees removed during such 24- month time period.
         (2)   If trees were removed in excess of the limits required by a
Township development approval, then the applicant shall be required to replace
such trees that were removed within 9 months with trees of similar species,
subject to approval of the Township.
         (3)   Replacement of trees shall be based upon the actual number and
size of trees or forest that was removed that was in excess of the allowed
disturbance. For each caliper inch of such trees that were removed, a minimum
of 3 caliper inches of new trees shall be planted.
         (4)   If it is not possible to determine the caliper inches of trees
that were removed in excess of the allowed disturbance, then a minimum of 2,000
caliper inches of trees per acre shall exist after replanting. If there is
mutual consent of the Township and the applicant, then such replacement tree
planting may be allowed to occur on an alternative site that serves a public
benefit. All costs of re-planting of trees, whether on-site or off-site, shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (5)   Any tile installation for land draining shall be removed and the
watercourses or wetlands restored to the satisfaction of the Township. In the
event that the original extent of watercourse or wetland cannot be determined,
the amount of required riparian or wetland buffer shall be doubled in the
disturbed area.
      (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      B.   The following natural resources shall be protected in the
percentages listed for each zoning district:
Table of Natural Resource Protection Standards by District
Natural Resource Protection Standards AD WS or RP RR or DD VC or VR PI o
Table of Natural Resource Protection Standards by District
Natural Resource Protection Standards AD   WS or RP RR or DD VC or VR PI o
100-year floodplains                  100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Lakes and ponds                       100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Wetlands                              100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Streams and watercourses              100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Slopes–
   15%–24%                       20%  70%      70%      70%      70%
   25%–30%                       30%  85%      85%      85%      85%
   over 30%                        100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Woodlands                             50%  80%      70%      50%      40%
Carbonate geology                     ***  ***      ***      ***      ***
Productive agricultural soils**       60%  0%       0%       0%       0%
**Protection shall be in accordance with subsection .2.J. Section
603.D and the list of Productive Agricultural Soils in §
202.
***Shall comply with subsection .2.I.
 
   (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
   2.   Natural Resources and Protection Standards. All natural resources
defined by this Section shall be mapped and described in accordance with the
Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance requirements for the site
analysis and resource conservation plan.
      A.   Floodplain. Any areas of the Township, classified as special flood
hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated March 16, 2015, and issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof,
including all digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study and,
for areas abutting streams and watercourses where the 100-year floodplain (1
percent annual chance flood) has not been delineated by the Flood Insurance
Study, the applicant shall submit a floodplain identification study. The study
prepared by a registered professional engineer expert in the preparation of
hydrologic and hydraulic studies shall be used to delineate the 100-year
floodplain. The floodplain study shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Township. All areas inundated by the 100-year flood shall be included in
the floodplain area.
         (1)   Floodplain shall be permanently protected and undeveloped,
except that utilities, roads and driveways may cross floodplain where design
approval is obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection and as permitted within the Springfield Township Floodplain
Ordinance.
         (2)   Uses Permitted by Right. The following uses and activities are
permitted in floodplain provided that they are in compliance with the
provisions of the underlying zoning district, conform to all requirements of
the Springfield Township Floodplain Ordinance, are not prohibited by any other
ordinance and do not require structures, fill or storage of materials or
equipment:
            (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, forestry, and wild crop harvesting.
            (b)   Public and private recreational uses and activities such as
parks, day camps, picnic grounds, boat launching and swimming areas, hiking,
and horseback riding trails, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, and hunting and fishing areas.
            (c)   Accessory residential uses such as yard areas, gardens, and
play areas.
         (3)   Uses Permitted by Special Exception. The following uses and
activities are permitted in floodplain by special exception provided that they
are in compliance with the provisions of the underlying district, conform to
all requirements of the Springfield Township Floodplain Ordinance and are not
prohibited by any other ordinance:
            (a)   Utilities, public facilities and improvements such as
railroads, streets, driveways, bridges, transmission lines, pipe lines, water
and sewer lines, and other similar or related uses.
            (b)   Water related uses and activities such as marinas, docks,
wharves, boat launches and piers.
            (c)   Storage of materials and equipment provided they are not
buoyant, flammable or explosive, and are not subject to major damage by
flooding, and provided such material and equipment is firmly anchored to
prevent flotation or movement. Storage or materials and equipment listed in
Section 5.04 of the Springfield Township Floodplain Ordinance shall be
prohibited.
            (d)   Stream crossings for utilities, driveways and streets.
         (4)   Floodplain Protection Standards. No structures, filling, piping,
diverting, or stormwater detention basins shall be permitted within the 100-
year floodplain, any riparian buffer or wetland except that roads, driveways,
utilities, dams, culverts, bridges, storm or sanitary sewer facilities may be
located in the 100-year floodplain, riparian buffer or wetland where approval
is obtained from DEP, the Township by special exception, and other regulatory
agencies that have legal jurisdiction. The following activities are
specifically prohibited in the 100-year floodplain, riparian buffer or wetland:
deposit of any material including refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill,
sediment, or animal wastes; removal of fill or sediment; mining, dredging or
excavation; on-site or community sewage disposal systems; removal of natural
vegetation including trees, shrubs, and ground cover unless accompanied by
replanting of vegetation that serves the same effect; construction of any
building or structure, except as permitted by the Springfield Township
Floodplain Ordinance; and relocation of a stream bed or removal of a stream
bank, except for when the relocation or removal is part of an approved
streambank restoration project.
         (5)   Expansion of Existing Buildings or Structures. When permitted as
a variance by the Zoning Hearing Board, any building or structure within the
floodplain at the time of enactment of this Ordinance may be altered or
extended, provided that:
            (a)   The alteration or extension conforms to all applicable
regulations of this Ordinance and the Springfield Township Floodplain
Ordinance.
            (b)   Any increase in volume or area shall not exceed an aggregate
of more than 25 percent of such volume or area during the life of the
structure.
            (c)   No increase of any on-lot sewer system presently located
either wholly or partially in the floodplain shall be permitted.
            (d)   No expansion or enlargement to existing structures shall be
allowed within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation
of the 100-year flood, unless the effect of the proposed expansion or
enlargement on flood heights is fully offset by accompanying improvements.
   (Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015)
      B.   Lakes and Ponds.
         (1)   Lakes are permanent bodies of water, naturally occurring or man
made, covering an area of 2 acres or more. Ponds are permanent bodies of water,
naturally occurring or man made, covering an area of less than 2 acres.
         (2)   Lake and Pond Riparian Buffers. A riparian buffer area shall
extend landward for 75 feet from the waters edge as measured during non-drought
conditions.
      (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (3)   Protection Standards. No development, filling, or diverting
shall be permitted in lakes or ponds or within lake/pond riparian buffers
except where used for farm irrigation purposes in the AD District.
      (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (4)   The excavation, berming, and disturbance of watercourses (or
wetlands that lie over limestone bedrock) for the purpose of creating ponds or
lakes are prohibited. Maintenance and/or removal of existing structures (such
as berms, dams, etc.) for reasons of public safety or welfare are subject to
the regulatory oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the PA
Department of Environmental Protection.
      C.   Wetlands and Wetland Riparian Buffers.
         (1)   Wetlands are critical locations within a watershed where surface
and groundwater interact. As such they are the place where water either enters
or leaves the aquifer and are potential points of contamination or destruction
of either the groundwater or surface water resource. These provisions are
designed to protect wetlands and by doing so, protect the groundwater and
surface water resources of the Township.
         (2)   Wetlands are those areas that are inundated or saturated by
surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and
under normal conditions do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. The term “wetlands” shall mean
any area meeting the definition of a “wetland” under regulations of PADEP or
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers whichever is more inclusive.
         (3)   Wetlands include Federal jurisdictional wetlands, stream
headwaters, springs, seeps, and lands comprised of and characterized by hydric
soils. Wetlands can be formed at the edge of any surface water body, in
forests, in floodplains, at springs or seeps. Properties known to contain
wetlands, stream headwaters, springs, seeps, hydric soils, lands within a 100-
year floodplain, lands listed as containing wetlands in the Cooks Creek
Watershed Protection Plan and lands shown to contain wetlands by prior wetland
studies shall require a determination as to the existence of wetlands made by a
scientist certified in wetland delineation as part of the zoning application.
The provisions of subparagraph (6) shall apply. A preponderance of evidence
including, but not limited to: presence of obligate and facultative hydrophytic
vegetation, hydric soils, floodplains, and hydrology must be reviewed in order
to make the determination. All supporting evidence is to be provided with the
application. A Federal jurisdictional determination, while helpful, may not be
adequate to determine the presence of all wetlands protected by this Ordinance.
         (4)   Wetland-prone soils in Bucks County include, but are not limited
to, Bowmansville, Doylestown, Hatboro, Fallsington, Towhee, and Towhee Stony.
Other wetland indicators are wetland vegetation and certain hydrologic
conditions.
         (5)   Wetlands/Wetland Riparian Buffer Protection Standards.
            (a)   Wetlands shall not be altered, re-graded, developed, filled,
piped, diverted, or built upon except that a road, driveway or utility may
cross wetlands where a special exception is obtained from the Zoning Hearing
Board after the applicant demonstrates that there is no feasible means to
provide access to the property or to reasonably engage in a permitted use on
the property except by disturbance of the wetland riparian buffer. The property
owner/applicant shall identify wetlands and where encroachment is anticipated
shall obtain the applicable State and Federal permits.
         (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
            (b)   A wetland riparian buffer shall be required that shall extend
from the outer limits of the boundary of each wetland. The width of this
wetland riparian buffer shall be 75 feet, except it shall be 25 feet for a
wetland that: 1) includes less than 10,000 square feet of contiguous land area
that are shown to not be hydrologically connected to another wetland(s) and
where the aggregate of all connected wetlands on adjacent lots is less than
10,000 square feet, or 2) is not spring fed.
            (c)   Within the wetland riparian buffer, the same regulations that
are in place for wetlands shall also apply. Where a requirement for a wetland
riparian buffer and a requirement for a watercourse riparian buffer overlap,
(as in the case of a wetland adjacent to a watercourse, lake or pond), the
buffer or buffer zone that is more strictly regulated shall apply.
            (d)   An applicant may petition the Board of Supervisors for an
exception to these regulations if the wetland is shown to be isolated from
hydrologic connection to a surface water body, was created by artificial
conditions, provides no valuable habitat or stormwater abatement function, or
if the applicant establishes to the Township’s satisfaction that the proposed
use would not affect either groundwater or surface water quality and/or
hydrology.
            (e)   The applicant shall identify all wetlands and wetland
riparian buffers on plans submitted to the Township, and shall identify any
proposed encroachment into wetland riparian buffers. The applicant shall obtain
all necessary Federal and State permits prior to or as a condition of Township
approval.
            (f)   In wetlands, the entire wetland and wetland riparian buffers
are subject to the restrictions of the “minimum disturbance zone” of the
watercourse riparian buffer regulation in paragraph .D, except in those cases
where all or part of the wetland lies within the “no disturbance zone” of the
watercourse riparian buffer regulation. In those cases, the stricter regulation
applies.
         (6)   Wetland Studies.
            (a)   Prior to land development or other earth disturbances
governed by this Ordinance, it shall be the responsibility of each applicant to
establish that the lands which will be disturbed do not contain wetlands. A
wetlands study prepared by a scientist certified in wetland delineation shall
be performed in accordance with the regulations of the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection or the United States Army Corps of Engineers,
whichever is more inclusive of wetlands.
            (b)   A jurisdictional determination by the Army Corps of Engineers
shall be considered but shall not be the sole determination as to the status of
the wetlands where that determination conflicts with a wetlands study performed
by another qualified wetlands consultant. The Board of Supervisors of the
Township shall make the final determination with respect to activities
requiring Township approval by this Ordinance or the Township Subdivision and
Land Development Ordinance.
            (c)   All wetland delineation studies are subject to review and
acceptance by the Township. The Township may require an independent review of
the wetland delineation provided by the applicant, with the Township selecting
such consultant, and with the applicant responsible to pay the costs of such
review. In the event of a dispute, the delineation that provides the greatest
restriction to development or disturbance of the resource applies.
            (d)   Alternatively, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the
wetland study requirement by agreeing to the limits of the regulated wetland as
determined by the Township.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      D.   Streams and Watercourses and Stream/Watercourse Margins.
         (1)   Streams and watercourses, even those that do not retain year
round flow, are critical to the health and functionality of aquatic ecosystems.
These same systems are also important for the efficient transport and passive
treatment of stormwater runoff, ameliorating both environmental and economic
damage. In addition to serving the overall objectives of this Ordinance, this
Section is intended to ensure the long-term viability of the waterway as both
wildlife and aquatic habitat, for stormwater conveyance in a manner that avoids
damage to environmental features, to minimize erosion and sedimentation and to
protect water quality.
         (2)   Streams and watercourses affected by this Ordinance shall
include perennial, intermittent and ephemeral streams as defined in §
202. Streams or watercourses may or may not have flow during all parts of the
year. Streams and watercourses are as mapped in this Ordinance, or as
referenced in the Cooks Creek Watershed Protection Plan (Durham EAC, 2001), the
Springtown Sourcewater Protection Plan (Springfield EAC, 2006) or as provided
for and adopted by agencies of the Township and the Board of Supervisors,
whichever is more inclusive
         (3)   Zones marginal to streams and watercourses preserve the natural
environment (including aquatic and wildlife habitat) and function to purify
water and to maintain existing surface and subsurface water hydrology dynamics
before water reaches the watercourse and/or wetland. Such margins serve to
minimize the negative influence or increased runoff, sedimentation, biochemical
degradation, and thermal pollution. Margins are also intended to provide and
protect wildlife habitat.
         (4)   The applicant is responsible for determining the specific
hydrologic conditions of at the site before making application and to designate
all streams and watercourses and their margins on plans submitted. The Township
reserves the right to obtain a consultant to verify the delineation of streams
and watercourses and their respective margins with the cost to be borne by the
applicant. The Township may require further that a hydrologic study be
performed at the expense of the applicant to determine the hydrologic
conditions during average springtime non-drought conditions. Furthermore, the
locations of any natural or man-made springs or seeps on the lot shall be shown
on any subdivision, land development or building plan submitted to the
Township.
         (5)   Stream and Watercourse and Stream/Watercourse Margin Protection
Standards.
            (a)   Development, alterations, wastewater discharge and uses
adjacent to and potentially impacting upon the streams and watercourses of the
Township are subject to the restrictions of the PA Department of Environmental
Protection in keeping with the status of that watershed. Special exceptions and
variances from this Ordinance affecting a stream for activities in the Cooks
Creek Watershed must demonstrate that the proposal will not alter the
exceptional value status of this critical resource.
            (b)   A stream/watercourse riparian buffer shall be required that
extends 100 feet from the active bank of a perennial or intermittent stream,
and 10 feet from the bank of an ephemeral stream. In the cases where no obvious
bank exists, then the topographic low point of the swale shall be used as the
center point and the buffer shall be measured from this point instead. This
riparian buffer shall consist of up to two zones (no disturbance and minimal
disturbance):
               1)   A 100-feet riparian buffer shall have a minimum 40-feet
wide no disturbance zone and a 60-feet wide minimal disturbance zone in
sequential order from the bank of the active stream/watercourse.
               2)   A 10-feet riparian buffer shall be composed entirely of the
minimal disturbance zone as measured from the bank of the ephemeral stream.
               3)   The No Disturbance Zone of the riparian buffer shall allow
fishing, trapping, hunting, hiking, wildlife watching, physical (not chemical)
removal of invasive species, planting of native plants, streambank restoration
(see subsection .2.E) and stream monitoring studies. Driveways, road or utility
crossings are permitted by special exception if engineered for minimal impact
and if shown that there is no feasible alternative. Projects that can be shown
to result in no impact to the quality and volume of surface and groundwater
flows or disrupt the hydrologic/hydrogeologic connection with adjacent stream
or springs may also be permitted by special exception. All other uses are not
permitted. See subsection .2.E for procedures for exceptions from riparian
buffer requirements.
               4)   Minimal Disturbance Zone of the riparian buffer shall allow
gardening and farming, tree and shrub removal, physical (not chemical) removal
of invasive species, restoration of native species, installation of posts with
or without individual concrete footings, pervious pathways, as well as all uses
allowed by right in the No Disturbance Zone. Pond construction, projects that
can be shown to result in no impact to the quality and volume of surface and
groundwater flows or disrupt the hydrologic/hydrogeologic connection with
adjacent stream or springs, and driveway or utility crossings may also be
permitted by conditional use approval upon review by the Planning Commission
and Environmental Advisory Council. All other uses are not permitted. See
paragraph subsection .2.E for procedures for exceptions from riparian buffer
requirements.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
            (c)   Stormwater conveyed through artificial means may not be
discharged directly into a watercourse, but may be allowed to be discharged
into a buffer area provided that the velocity of the flow has been reduced
through engineered or natural means such that sheetflow is generated and the
integrity of the buffer is not harmed by the discharge.
            (d)   No buildings, structures except for livestock fence, vehicle
parking, driveways or roads shall be placed within a watercourse margin, except
that a driveway, road or utility may cross a stream/watercourse margin if
special exception approval is obtained from the Zoning Hearing Board and if the
applicant proves to the Zoning Hearing Board that all of the following
conditions are met: (1) this crossing has been engineered to ensure continued
functionality of the stream or watercourse using best engineering practices at
the time of the proposal in order to minimize environmental impact, (2) no
other access to the property is available, and (3) the crossing disturbs the
minimum possible area of the stream/water course margin.
         (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
      E.   Study Requirements for Exceptions to Riparian Buffer Protections.
         (1)   Disturbance to riparian buffers for the purposes of streambank
or streambed restoration is permitted by right in all districts, provided that
a plan for restoration of the streambank/streambed receives approval from the
Township. Restorations should adhere to the “Guidelines for Natural Stream
Channel Design for Pennsylvania Waterways” dated March 2007, developed by the
Keystone Stream Team (www.keystonestreamteam.org) or its equivalent. Prior to
initiating work on any streambank or streambed restoration project, the
applicant must obtain all required Federal and State permits for the activity.
         (2)   Stream crossings for road or utility construction may also
require additional information. The applicant is encouraged to utilize
minimally invasive methods, including open- bottomed culvert design and
crossing techniques that tunnel under rather than disturb the stream bed. The
applicant must obtain all required Federal and State permits for the activity.
         (3)   Departure from the wetland buffer and riparian buffer
restrictions listed above, as provided for in subsection .2.D(5)(b), whether in
the no disturbance or minimal disturbance zone, and in support of their
application for exception, shall submit the following information (except as
otherwise provided herein):
            (a)   Contour map showing floodplains, lakes/ponds, wetlands,
springs, and streams, including perennial and ephemeral streams, on the site.
            (b)   Geologic formation underlying the site.
            (c)   Slope features using 2-foot contours within the riparian or
wetland buffer and other areas of the proposed development, including size and
degree of slope. The significance of these slope characteristics in
contributing to runoff and erosion to the watercourse and wetland will be
addressed. The extent of exposed soils and time period of exposure of readily
erodible soils will be presented.
            (d)   Soil types, including a description of soil permeability and
porosity, on the proposed development site and in the riparian or wetland
buffer will be mapped and a discussion included in how surface waters filter
into the ground at the site. The erodibility potential of the soils in the
riparian or wetland buffer and the remainder of the site shall be discussed.
            (e)   Types and amount of vegetative cover in the riparian or
wetland buffer and proposed development site. A discussion should be presented
on how changes to this vegetation will continue or enhance soil stabilization
and retard runoff at the site.
            (f)   Hydrological features of the watercourse and wetland along
the proposed development site including depth (for ponds and lakes several
depth profiles shall be presented), discharge (cfs), hydrologic continuity of
various watercourses (linkages to any wetlands, streams or ponds), evidence of
channel enlargement, stream substrate, incidence of extreme flooding, condition
of banks.
            (g)   Occurrence of critical features pertaining to carbonate
bedrock areas. The significance of these features to the watercourse relating
to the proposed development is to be discussed.
            (h)   Areas of significant wildlife habitat within the riparian or
wetland buffer.
            (i)   Occurrence of development hazard areas within the riparian or
wetland buffer and proposed development site including, but not limited to,
dumps, oil and gas pipelines, automobile salvage yards, and gas stations.
            (j)   Type and location of construction activity.
            (k)   Elevation of 100-year floodplain.
         (4)   If introduction of pollutants or sediment, and/or modifications
to runoff can be expected within the riparian or wetland buffer, the following
additional information shall be provided in the report:
            (a)   Wetland vegetation (including herbaceous and woody) is to be
mapped; a discussion of its use by wildlife and sensitivities to water level
and potential pollutants that would be introduced by the proposed development
will be described.
            (b)   For ponds/lakes, existing phytoplankton, epiphytes, fish and
invertebrate communities are to be discussed. Existing or past problems
involving eutrophic events involving the system are to be discussed.
            (c)   Existing water quality for lakes, ponds, and streams
including dissolved oxygen (mg/l), temperature (C), pH, nitrate (NO3-N in mg/
l), nitrite (NO2- in mg/l), ammonia (NH3-in mg/l), total phosphorus (as P in
mg/l), orthophosphate (PO4-P) in mg/l), total hardness (as CaCO3 in mg/l), Ca
hardness (as CaCO3 in mg/l), Mg hardness (as CaCO3 in mg/l), alkalinity (as
CaCO3 in mg/l), suspended sediment and turbidity (JTU).
            (d)   For streams a description of existing flora and fauna along
the proposed development corridor should be included. This description should
include data on the composition (number and kinds) of fish, invertebrates and
algae and the availability and condition of habitats for diverse trophic
levels. Discussion should also address potential problems to the ecology
relating to the proposed development.
         (5)   For all watercourses/wetlands within the site, existing levels
of water pollution and runoff volumes should be identified. The relative
contribution of pollutants and adverse hydrological modification to the stream,
pond, lake, or wetland from upstream areas is to be addressed; any exacerbating
effects of the proposed development should be discussed.
         (6)   In any application before the Township and/or Zoning Hearing
Board, the first 40 feet from the bank of the stream/watercourse shall receive
the highest level of protection because it has the greatest impact upon water
quality.
         (7)   Crossings. Any street, driveway or utility crossing of an
intermittent or perennial stream shall be approximately perpendicular to the
stream.
         (8)   Plantings. Publications of the Pennsylvania Department of
Conservation and Natural Resources (including “Stream ReLeaf”) should be used
as guidelines for the planting or replacement of a vegetative buffer along a
creek. Plantings should be designed to provide shade for the stream, control
soil erosion and stabilize stream banks. These publications include recommended
species. Native species of vegetation shall be used, unless the Township
specifically approves alternate species. If required trees and plants do not
survive 18 months, the current owner of the property shall replace them within
100 days of notification (or as discovered).
         (9)   Applicants, prior to seeking a special exception or conditional
use approval for disturbances of the riparian or wetland buffer regulations,
may submit their proposal to the Environmental Advisory Council for an advisory
opinion. The Environmental Advisory Council shall render its written opinion
within 45 days of the date that the proposal is submitted. Where the
Environmental Advisory Council determines that the proposed disturbance will
have a “de minimus” or “minimal” impact, it may recommend to the Zoning Hearing
Board or Board of Supervisors as the case may be, that some of the requirements
of subparagraph (3)–(5) be waived. However, neither the Zoning Hearing Board
nor the Board of Supervisors shall be bound by this recommendation. The
Planning Commission shall also be allowed the same opportunity to comment on
the application. If either of the bodies fails to comment on the application,
the Supervisors or ZHB will assume that the body has no comment. In no cases
will activities be allowed that could result in degradation of the waterbody
for which the buffer is provided to protect.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      F.   Reserved.
   (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
      G.   Woodlands.
         (1)   Woodlands shall be subject to the restrictions specified herein
when the woodland area is greater than 0.25 acre and where the largest trees
are at least 6 inches in diameter measured 4.5 feet above the ground or where
the density of trees is at least one tree of at least 6 inches in diameter per
1,500 square feet of lot area.
         (2)   Areas with restrictions due to woodlands as required by this
Ordinance shall be left undisturbed except as permitted pursuant to an approved
zoning permit for Use A-3, Forestry, and shall not be cleared or occupied by
structures, driveways, on-lot wells or sewage disposal systems, or other
improvements. The woodland area shall not be planted in lawn and shall remain
in its natural conditions with the natural forest ground cover left intact.
      (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (3)   Mature trees and wooded areas not within a woodland as described
in §
510.2.G(1) shall be identified and shall be protected as follows:
            (a)   Wooded Areas Other than Woodland. Wooded areas other than
woodland as described in §
510.2.G(1) includes nurseries, orchards, and abandoned fields where
successional tree growth is occurring. No more than 40 percent of the total
caliper-inches of mature trees (over 3 inches in diameter measured 14 inches
above ground level) shall be removed or cleared except as specifically provided
for by this Ordinance. Trees greater than 20 inches in diameter measured 4.5
feet above ground shall not be removed. These restrictions do not apply to the
removal of nonnative invasive species. For the list of Pennsylvania Invasive
Plants, refer to the following website:
   http://www.dcnr.state.pa.us/forestry/wildplant/invasivelist.aspx
            (b)   Mature Trees Outside of Woodland Areas. Mature trees are
those greater than a 3-inch diameter measured 4.5 feet above ground or 20 feet
in height and which stand outside of woodland areas as described in §
510.2.G.(1). Such trees shall be protected at the percentages established by §
510.2.B(1), Table of Natural Resource Protection Standards by District. Except
in the AD, VC, VR, PI, or HC Districts, any permitted removal of mature trees
shall be undertaken to maintain the existing continuous canopy of trees where a
continuous canopy exists. Trees greater than 20 inches in diameter measured 4.5
feet above ground shall not be removed.
            (c)   Specimen Vegetation. Individual trees or other vegetation
determined to be of specimen quality by a natural resource professional such
as, but not limited to, a certified landscape architect or arborist or which
generally fall within the parameters of the following table shall be protected
in accordance with these standards. The examples of specimen trees included in
the following table are intended to provide general guidelines and examples of
what constitutes a specimen tree. The list is not all inclusive:
Species–Common NamMinimum Size (Caliper)
Species–Common NamMinimum Size (Caliper)
Apple               24 inches
Locust              30 inches
Sassafras           20 inches
Ash                 32 inches
Maple               32 inches
Spruce              30 inches
Beech               32 inches
Sycamore            36 inches
Cherry              24 inches
Oak                 32 inches
Elm                 30 inches
Walnut              30 inches
Hemlock             30 inches
Pine                30 inches
Hickory             30 inches
 
   Specimen vegetation shall be preserved whenever possible. When a specimen
tree cannot be preserved and is approved for removal as determined by the
Township, replacement trees shall be installed. For each caliper inch (dbh) of
specimen tree removed, a minimum of 3 caliper inches (measured 6 inches above
grade) of new trees shall be planted.
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (4)   See also the forestry regulations in §
404.A(3) of this Ordinance, which apply when trees are removed that are not
part of land development.
      (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (5)   In any case, when a building permit is issued for a building,
structure or principal use, removal of trees shall be allowed that are located
in the following areas:
            (a)   On land to be occupied by such building, structure or use.
            (b)   Within 30 feet of a building or principal use.
            (c)   On land to be occupied by or within 15 feet of all sides of
any utility line, stormwater conveyance or detention structure, driveway,
parking area, water system or sewage disposal system or permitted accessory
uses.
            (d)   In any location where the removal of a tree is required under
a Township code requirement.
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (6)   If a stormwater management plan for a subdivision or land
development assumes that a certain percentage of the tract will remain wooded,
then the Board of Supervisors may require conservation easements to be put into
effect by the developer to permanently limit tree removal on each lot so that
such overall percentage of woods will remain in place. The Board of Supervisors
shall approve the enforcement mechanism for such easement. The Board of
Supervisors may require that the easement be enforceable by the Township and/or
by any adjoining property owner.
      (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (7)   If trees are removed prior to a development application or in
excess of the allowed amount, then subsection .1.A shall apply.
      (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
      H.   Tree Protection Area.
         (1)   The tree protection area refers to the areas around woodlands
that are to be protected under the provisions of this Ordinance. The purpose is
to ensure that trees that are to be protected do not suffer damage during the
development. The tree protection area is an area radial to the trunk of a tree
and shall be 15 feet from the trunk of the tree to be retained, or the distance
from the trunk to the drip line (the line marking the outer edge of the
branches of the tree), whichever is greater. Where there is a group of trees or
woodlands, the tree protection area shall be an area encompassing the
protection areas for the individual trees.
         (2)   A tree protection area shall be designated around the area(s) of
woodlands to be protected, within which no construction activity or grading
shall occur.
         (3)   The tree protection area on a development site shall be fenced
prior to construction activities (including clearing) to protect the area from
unauthorized grading or tree removal. Tree protection fence shall be maintained
by the property owner/developer until completion of construction activities.
      (Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
         (4)   The tree protection area shall be clearly shown on all grading
plans.
      I.   Carbonate Geology Areas. In accordance with §
605(2)(iii) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, this Ordinance
and other applicable Township ordinances regulate and restrict uses in areas of
hazardous geological formations, including carbonate (limestone and dolomite)
areas.
         (1)   A carbonate geology study is required within areas of the
Township underlain by carbonate bedrock (limestone or dolomite) (1) prior to
issuance of a zoning permit for any foundation-related excavation or increases
in impervious surface by more than 500 square feet (see subsection (2)(a)
below), and (2) prior to preliminary plan approval for each subdivision and/or
land development.
            (a)   These carbonate areas are defined, inclusively, by maps in
the following publications: Durham Valley Geologic Features (Conservation and
Management Practices for Buckingham and Durham Carbonate Valley, Bucks County
Planning Commission, 1985); Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan (Durham
Township Environmental Advisory Committee, 2000); Geologic Map of Pennsylvania
(Berg, T. M., et al., 1980, PA Geologic Survey). Properties underlain by
limestone or dolomite bedrock (but not by carbonate fanglomerates), demarcated
by the studies cited above, are delineated on the Springfield Township
Carbonate Geology Overlay Map
(Appendix E), as adopted and as may be revised by the Township.
            (b)   Such areas may have natural drainage developed beneath the
soil column by dissolution of the underlying carbonate bedrock: a process
called “Karstification.” Because of this subsurface dissolution, such areas are
susceptible to surface collapse and subsidence caused by physical and chemical
erosion of soil and bedrock. These areas are especially susceptible to rapid
contamination of ground water by movement of sediment and liquid wastes,
contaminated surface water, septic tank effluent, or other hazardous substances
through fractures, solution openings, and fissures within the rock.
         (2)   Protection Standards.
            (a)   In carbonate geology areas, exemption criteria for impervious
surface areas listed in the Stormwater Ordinance, Section 105.B, apply only to
activities less than 500 square feet in area that do not involve foundation
excavation. All impervious surface expansions beyond 500 square feet, and all
excavations for foundations or footings must undertake an approved carbonate
geology study to obtain zoning permit approval.
            (b)   For impervious surface expansion less than 500 square feet, a
grading/stormwater management plan must be implemented that results in
sheetflow over vegetated, stabilized ground and precludes ponding.
            (c)   For impervious surface expansion greater than 500 square
feet, a professional engineer shall design a BMP stormwater control structure.
Stormwater management facilities including, but not limited to, detention/
retention basins, Disconnected Impervious Area BMPs (see Stormwater Ordinance,
Section 306.D.8 and Appendix E), and flow attenuation swales, shall be located
at a safe distance, which shall in no case be less than 100 feet from the rim
of sinkholes, closed depressions, and disappearing streams and no closer than
50 feet from fracture traces, or carbonate outcrops. Furthermore, these
facilities shall not be placed above bedrock pinnacles, as soils adjacent to
pinnacles are most susceptible to collapse.
            (d)   Outflow from a stormwater management basin and stormwater
flow generated as a result of development shall not empty into or be directed
to any of the following carbonate features: sinkholes, closed depressions,
fracture traces, caverns, ghost lakes, or disappearing streams.
            (e)   No principal structure or accessory building that is built on
a foundation or footings shall be located any closer than 100 feet from the rim
of sinkholes or closed depressions or 100 feet from ghost lakes, fracture
traces, or disappearing streams unless a detailed surface and subsurface
investigation has been performed and procedures provided to mitigate any threat
of the feature(s) on groundwater quality and stability of surface and
subsurface structures to the satisfaction of the Township.
            (f)   A licensed professional geologist experienced with carbonate
terrain must perform the carbonate geology study. Testing shall involve
excavation and examination of the soil profile for evidence of subsidence,
suffusion, or collapse. In no case shall the excavation disturb or alter the
bedrock/soil interface. Testing may include drilling to establish soil
thickness or depth to bedrock, but in no case shall drilling extend more than
six inches into carbonate bedrock. Noninvasive, nondestructive geophysical
methods that comply with standard engineering practices and that are approved
by the Township may provide important information on the topography of the
bedrock surface, the soil thickness, and its lateral distribution.
            (g)   The Township reserves the right to deny any land use that
would cause damage to the environment generally and/or groundwater quality, in
particular.
            (h)   All underground utility lines, pipelines, storm sewer,
sanitary sewer, and utilities to any structure shall have a dike of clay or
other suitable material constructed across the width of the trench at intervals
not to exceed 20 feet. Clay dikes shall have a minimum thickness of 18 inches
and extend from the bottom of the trench to not less than eight inches from
finished surface. Utility trenches less than 20 feet in total length shall
contain at least one dike.
            (i)   Impoundments containing toxic substances are not permitted.
            (j)   Storage and handling areas for toxic and harmful materials
must have impermeable surfaces designed to contain material and direct it to a
predetermined collection point.
            (k)   Storage and handling facilities for toxic and harmful
materials shall not be sited in areas of public or private water supplies.
            (l)   No underground storage of any toxic materials shall be
permitted.
            (m)   All companies handling toxic or harmful materials shall
inventory and register these materials with the Township and develop a spill
contingency plan acceptable to the Township that includes regular inspection
and maintenance programs.
            (n)   Groundwater monitoring devices are required for all
facilities handling toxic or harmful materials.
         (3)   Carbonate Geology Study. No structure, lot, land, or water shall
be used or developed for any purpose and no structure shall be located,
extended, converted or structurally altered, under the provisions of
subsections 1 and 2(a) above, until the applicant has filed a carbonate geology
study with the Township in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.
            (a)   A licensed professional geologist, with experience in
carbonate geology, shall prepare the carbonate geology study. The study shall
be based upon field surveys and published data, shall be supported by an
explanation of its source(s), and shall include the qualifications of the
individuals directly responsible for preparing such information. The Township
shall evaluate and accept or reject, in advance, the qualifications of the
persons conducting the study. See study review procedures in clause (d) below.
            (b)   Technical Resources. Although the applicant is responsible
for determining carbonate features on the site, the following publications must
be reviewed and referenced within the carbonate geology study, as amended or
their successor documents:
               1)   Conservation and Management Practices for Buckingham and
Durham Carbonate Valley (Bucks County Planning Commission, 1985).
               2)   Cooks Creek Watershed Conservation Plan (Durham Township
Environmental Advisory Council, 2000).
               3)   Cooks Creek Watershed Monitoring and Planning
Program–Wetland, Management Plan. (Durham Twp. Environmental Advisory Council,
2000).
               4)   Caves of Bucks County, Pennsylvania (Bucks County Groto,
National Speleological Society, 1983).
               5)   Kochanov, W. E., Lichtinger, J. F., and Becker, Mona,
1993a, Sinkholes and karst-related features of Bucks County, Pennsylvania:
Pennsylvania Geological Survey, 4th ser., Open-File Report 93-03 (see: http://
www.dcnr.state.pa.us/topogeo/publications/pgspub/openfile/index.htm).
            (c)   The format and contents of the carbonate geology study shall
be as follows:
               1)   Statement of Purpose. This Section shall address all
standards in §
510.2.H(2), the extent to which the standards are applicable to the proposed
project, and the method(s) utilized for compliance.
               2)   Description of Existing Conditions. This Section shall
present a description of existing characteristics of the property with respect
to geology, topography, ground and surface water hydrology, soils, vegetation,
and existing improvements and uses.
               3)   A map, at a scale no smaller than 1 inch equals 100 feet
and contour intervals of 2 feet indicating the location of the property and all
proposed improvements thereon.
               4)   The applicant shall submit information indicating the
presence of any of the following carbonate features within 100 feet of all
areas proposed for disturbance, grading, construction of buildings and other
improvements:
                  a)   Depressions.
                  b)   Fissures, lineaments, faults or fracture traces.
                  c)   “Ghost lakes.”
                  d)   Outcrops of bedrock.
                  e)   Sinkholes and previously filled sinkholes.
                  f)   Soil mottling (indicating seasonal high water table).
                  g)   Springs.
                  h)   Caverns/caves.
                  i)   Disappearing lakes.
                  j)   Disappearing streams.
   Such information must be based upon soil testing, field surveys, and
published data, and shall be supported by an explanation of its source
including the qualifications of the individuals directly responsible for
collecting and preparing such information.
               5)   The applicant shall submit a plan of the site and adjoining
properties within 400 feet of the site identifying existing and proposed
drainage conditions, locations of all existing and proposed private and public
sewage disposal systems, and locations of existing and proposed private and
public water supplies.
               6)   Study shall include soil type(s) and depth(s) encountered
on the site, depth and thickness of carbonate rock, and nature and extent of
any voids. Results of a representative sample satisfactory to the Township of
onsite borings and/or descriptions and photographs of test pits to a depth of
at least 6 feet below grade shall be included.
               7)   Study shall include a stormwater management plan prepared
in consultation with a professional geologist or engineer, licensed in
Pennsylvania, familiar with Karst geology. Stormwater management design shall
be in accordance with the Township Stormwater Management Ordinance and include
appropriate safeguards for the water quality of groundwater and all creeks.
               8)   Description of the Proposed Action. This Section shall
describe the proposed action including: types, locations and phasing of
proposed disturbances, as well as proposed future ownership and maintenance of
the property and proposed improvements. Plans describing the proposed action
may be included with the Carbonate Geology Report.
               9)   If the proposed activity includes installation of a new
septic system, or revision of an existing system, a septic management plan
prepared in consultation with a professional geologist or engineer familiar
with Karst geology shall be included with the carbonate geology study. An
estimate of septic loading to the underlying features must be included and the
geologist must certify that there will be no threat to public or private water
supplies, or to the surface waters of the Township from the proposed septic
system(s).
               10)   Proposed Measures to Control Potential Adverse
Environmental Impacts. This Section shall describe all measures proposed by the
applicant to avoid any adverse impacts that may occur as a result of the
proposed action, and identify the process by which the contractors and
subcontractors will address Karst features encountered during construction.
               11)   List and Qualifications of Preparers. The names,
addresses, and telephone numbers and professional qualifications of persons
directly responsible for preparing the Carbonate Geology Report, shall be
submitted.
               12)   Appendices. Any additional information that the applicant
desires to provide may be included in one or more appendices to the report.
               13)   The Township may require that additional information be
submitted if the Township Engineer or Township Geologist concludes that such
information may be instrumental in assessing the potential environmental
impact.
            (d)   The carbonate geology study must be received by the Township
with the zoning permit application, or in the case of a subdivision or land
development, at the time of preliminary plan submission. Sufficient copies of
the study shall be submitted to the Township, as determined by the Zoning
Officer based on the scope and scale of the project. The applicant shall pay
the costs of reviews by an independent consultant selected by the Township.
         (4)   Approvals Required. Following review by the Township staff/
professional consultants and advisory Boards, as applicable, on any submission
under §
510.2.I(3), the Township shall either find that Carbonate geology study and
accompanying plans meets the requirements of this Section, require that the
study and the accompanying plans be revised, or find that the carbonate geology
study does not comply with this Ordinance, in which case the submission shall
be returned to the applicant with a letter stating one or more provisions of
this Ordinance that were not met.
            (a)   Where compliance with this Section is required as part of an
application for subdivision or land development approval, the Township’s
decision on whether compliance has been achieved shall be made as part of its
review of the subdivision or land development application.
            (b)   Where the application is part of a request for a zoning
permit, the Zoning Officer shall issue no such permit until the terms of this
Section, and any conditions imposed upon the use of the property at the time of
subdivision or land development approval are satisfied.
         (5)   On sites where carbonate features have been identified by the
carbonate geology study, the applicant must retain a professional geologist or
professional engineer to perform onsite inspection during all excavation,
grading, and backfill operations. Final grading shall be inspected by the
Township Engineer to verify that it meets plan specifications.
         (6)   Non-assumption of Liability. In a carbonate geology area,
alteration, development, or use of land is inherently hazardous with respect to
foundation safety of structures, the creation of unstable land as a result of
changes in drainage, groundwater extraction, or discharge of wastewater, and
contamination of ground and surface waters. Within the limitations of the
information available at the time of review on individual applications, the
Township shall attempt to make reasonable judgments as to the applicant’s
rights and responsibilities in this Carbonate Geology Area. All applicants and
property owners are hereby notified that the Township, Township employees,
consultants, and appointees, undertake no responsibility of property, or life,
or personal injury due to Carbonate Geology conditions, even if applicants or
property owners strictly observe all Township ordinances.
            (a)   It is also noted that local conditions can cause sinkholes
and subsidence of ground in areas outside of carbonate geology not designated
as a sinkhole or hazardous area during site plan presentation or review. The
applicant and property owner should always make independent investigations of
these matters prior to using this land or construction of a building or
structure.
         (7)   A disclosure statement, prepared in a manner satisfactory to the
Township, must be provided to each landowner prior to issuance of a zoning
permit that informs homeowners of the potential for sinkhole formation on the
lot and the heightened concern for groundwater pollution in carbonate geology
areas. It must also identify the homeowner’s responsibilities regarding
stormwater management, septic system maintenance, and sinkhole management.
         (8)   Appearance of Geologic Hazards after Site Plan Approval. In
certain cases, specific geologic hazards, such as sinkholes, caves, etc., may
not be identified during the site plan preparation or review, but will be
encountered and uncovered after site plan approval or during or after
construction. In those cases, the applicant and/or landowner shall follow the
procedures outlined below:
            (a)   Report occurrence of hazard to the Code Enforcement Officer
within 1 business day of the occurrence. The developer and/or landowner shall
then report the proposed method of repair to the Code Enforcement Officer as
soon as possible, but not more than 7 days after the occurrence. It is
recognized that repairs may have to be undertaken on an emergency basis, so in
that event, repairs may begin without a zoning permit as long as repairs and
restorations are made in compliance with prior approved site plans or zoning
permits. However, no grading or construction of buildings shall occur in the
area of the hazard until the Township has approved the method of repair.
            (b)   Repair and maintain repair of the hazard in such a way as to
prevent or minimize damage to building, structure, utility, driveway, parking
area, roadway and other site improvements, and in such a way as to minimize
pollution of the groundwater. Repair shall be accomplished in a manner as
directed by the applicant’s professional engineer. A report of the hazard and
methods proposed/utilized for repair shall be prepared by the applicant’s
professional engineer and submitted to the Township.
            (c)   Repair and maintain repair of any damage to improvements and
restore groundcover and landscaping.
            (d)   In those cases where the hazard cannot be repaired in such a
way as to maintain the integrity of the original approved site plan, the
applicant and/or property owner shall apply for a site plan amendment. During
review and approval of such a site plan amendment, the Township shall recognize
that the newly identified geologic hazard may have produced nonconformities to
this Ordinance, which may not reasonably be brought into conformity. The
Township may, but is not required to, allow the continuation of these
nonconformities even if such nonconforming features have not been actually
constructed.
               1)   However, the applicant and/or landowner shall attempt to
reduce or eliminate nonconforming features during the preparation of the site
plan amendment.
            (e)   In all cases, however, if a sinkhole appears after site plan
approval, but before final inspection and approval of an on-lot sewer disposal
system and such sinkhole is within 100 feet of the drainfield, the drainfield
shall be relocated and meet DEP requirements.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 508; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, § 05; Ord. 149,
passed 4-29-2008, Arts. VI–VIII; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, §§ 30–35; Ord.
179, passed 2-24-2015, Art. IV; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 510 Natural Resource Mapping and Site Capacity Calculations.
   1.   All applicants for subdivision and land developments (major or minor)
shall: (A) include maps delineating the natural resources and demonstrating
compliance with Environmental Protection Standards in this Section, which may
limit disturbance of natural features to the extent indicated in subsection
.2.B(1) and (B) meet requirements of subsection .2.B(1). Lot line adjustments
(subdivisions which will not result in the creation of an additional lot) shall
be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   2.   The following natural resource and site capacity calculations shall be
submitted by the applicant with applications for any of the following uses: B-
4 Duplex Dwelling, B-5 Manufactured/Mobile Home Park, B-6 Apartments, B-
7 Performance Subdivision, B-12 Single Family Detached Cluster, B-14
Townhouses, B-15 Twin House, B-16 Village House, and C-16 Continuing Care
Retirement Community. In addition, the following natural resource and site
capacity calculations shall be submitted by the applicant for any subdivision
or land development involving a lot that had a site area of 10 or more acres
within the AD Agriculture District or RP Resource Protection District, or 20 or
more acres within WS Watershed District as of the effective date of this
Ordinance.
   Through these calculations, the maximum number of dwelling units, the
maximum amount of impervious surfaces, and the required amount of open space
will be determined for the specific site, based upon the site’s specific
characteristics.
   Where open space is required for resource protection, it shall be laid out
to encompass the maximum amount of the resource that is to be protected that is
practical. See §
603 .D concerning the required farmland lot for single-family detached
dwellings in the AD District.
      A.   Base Site Area. Certain portions of tracts may not be usable for the
activities proposed for the site. These areas shall therefore be subtracted
from the site area to determine base site area.
(1)   Site area as determined by actual on-site survey                        ____
                                                                                 Ac.
(2)   Subtract - land that is not contiguous: i.e.:
   (a)   A separate parcel which does not abut or adjoin, nor share
   (b)   common boundaries with the rest of the development, and/or
   (c)   land that is cut off from the main parcel by an expressway,
   (d)   arterial or collector roadway, railroad, existing land uses, or
   (e)   major stream so as to serve as a major barrier to common use,
   (f)   or so that it is isolated and unavailable for building purposes.
   (g)   (Each parcel shall be treated separately for the purposes of
   (h)   Base Site area determination.)                                    ____
                                                                                 Ac.
(3)   Subtract - land that in a previously approved subdivision was           ____
                                                                                 Ac.
(4)   reserved for resource reasons such as flooding, or for recreation       ____
                                                                                 Ac.
(5)   Subtract - land used or zoned for another use, i.e., land used or to be ____
used for commercial or industrial uses in a residential development, or land in  Ac.
a different zoning district rather than the primary use.
(6)   Subtract - land within ultimate rights-of-way of existing roads, or     ____
existing utility rights-of-way or easements.                                     Ac.
                              = BASE SITE AREA     ____
                                                                                 Ac.
 
      B.   Resource Protection Land. All land and resources within the base
site area shall be mapped and measured for the purpose of determining the
amount of open space needed to protect them. Portions of a site that may have
overlapping resource protection restrictions shall be subject to the highest
open space ratio and shall be calculated only once.
Table of Natural Resource Protection Standards by District
Natural Resource Protection Standards AD WS or RP RR or DD VC or VR PI or HC
Table of Natural Resource Protection Standards by District
Natural Resource Protection Standards AD   WS or RP RR or DD VC or VR PI or HC
100-year Floodplains                  100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Lakes and ponds                       100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Wetlands                              100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Streams and watercourses              100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Slopes:
   15%–24%                       20%  70%      70%      70%      70%
   25%–30%                       30%  85%      85%      85%      85%
   over 30%                        100% 100%     100%     100%     100%
Woodlands                             50%  80%      70%      50%      40%
Carbonate Geology                     ***  ***      ***      ***      ***
Productive Agricultural Soils**       60%  0%       0%       0%       0%
**Protection shall be in accordance with §
509.2.J, §
602.D and the list of Productive Agricultural Soils in §
202.
***Shall comply with subsection .2.I.
 
         (1)   The applicant shall utilize the natural resource protection
ratios for each resource from the preceding table and the acreage of each
resource within the base site area to complete the following table. The
percentages shall be converted into decimal places for the purposes of this
Section. For example, a 20 percent protection standard shall be converted to
0.20 for use in this Section, and a 100 percent protection standard shall be
converted to 1.0. This completed table shall then be submitted with any
subdivision or land development plan, and shall be revised as necessary based
upon review by the Township. The table shall be completed to the nearest 3
decimal places (such as 2.221 acres).
                                               Acres of Resource
         Natural Resource                      Protection Land (Acres of
Resource Protection Ratio for Acres of Land in Land in Resource
         Resource from this   Resource         multiplied by Natural
         subparagraph                          Resource Protection
                                               Ratio)
                                                         Acres of Resource
                   Natural Resource                      Protection Land (Acres
Resource           Protection Ratio for Acres of Land in of Land in Resource
                   Resource from this   Resource         multiplied by Natural
                   subparagraph                          Resource Protection
                                                         Ratio)
Floodplains                             X   =
Lakes and Ponds                         X   =
Wetlands                                X   =
Streams and                             X   =
Watercourses
Steep Slope (15 to                      X   =
24%)
Steep Slope (25 to                      X   =
30%)
Steep Slope (Over                       X   =
30%)
Woodlands                               X   =
Productive                              X   =
Agricultural Soils
   Total Resource Protection Land in    =
Acres
 
         (2)   The applicant shall provide a plan showing the resource
protected land calculated in accordance with subparagraph (1). The resource
protected land shown on the plan shall remain as natural area and shall be
preserved by one of the following means selected by the Board of Supervisors:
            (a)   Conveyance of a permanent conservation easement to the
Township and/or a conservancy or other nonprofit corporation approved by the
Township.
            (b)   Conveyance of the resource protected land to the Township
where the area in which the resource protected land is located has been
identified in the Township Comprehensive Plan, Watershed Plan or other Natural
Resource Protection Plan as containing groundwater, riparian areas, forest,
wildlife habitat or other natural resources of importance.
            (c)   Recording a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions in a form approved by the Township and containing such provisions
as the Township deems appropriate to assure that the natural resource lands are
preserved in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
      C.   Recreation Land. The Township Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance may require the provision of a certain amount of land for recreation,
and may offer an alternative of paying fees in place of providing recreation
land. If so, the applicant shall provide calculations to show compliance with
such provisions.
         (1)   Any minimum recreation land requirement may be met by portions
of the open space on the tract if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of
the Township that such areas are suitable for recreation purposes.
         (2)   If the required recreation land is not approved to overlap open
space, or if open space is not required, and if no alternative is approved
under the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, then the recreation land
shall be provided on the tract in addition to any required open space.
      D.   Determination of Site Capacity. Individual site capacity net
density, net buildable site area, and allowable impervious surface is
calculated as follows for a residential development:
(1)   Take: resource protection land from subsection .2.B above              ___ Ac.
(2)   Add: recreation land (unless Township allows a portion of the proposed ___ Ac
preserved open space to count as recreation land)
(3)   Equals: resource protection plus recreation land                       ___ Ac
(4)   Take: base site area                                                   ___ Ac
(5)   Multiply: open space ratio (for the use/district) X                    ___
                                                                                (Ratio)
(6)   Equals:                                                                ___ Ac
(7)   Whichever is larger, the acreage in (3) or (6) shall be the minimum    ___ Ac
required open space
(8)   Take: base site area                                                   ___ Ac
(9)   Subtract: minimum required open space–from (7) above                 ___ Ac
(10) Equals: net buildable site area =                                          ___ Ac
(11) Take lot area of each lot                                                  ___ Ac
(12) Multiply: maximum impervious surface ratio (for use/district) X            ___
                                                                                (Ratio)
(13) Equals: allowable impervious surface for that lot =                        ___ Ac
(14) Take: base site area (from (4) above)                                      ___ Ac
(15) Multiply (15) by maximum net density for the use/zoning district
(16) Refer to Article 6.X                                                       ___Du/
                                                                                Ac
(17) Equals: maximum allowable number of dwelling
(18) Units on the site =                                                        ___Du
*For the WS District, see §
602.B for calculation of density.
 
   3.   The following site capacity calculations shall be submitted with
applications for agricultural, commercial, institutional, industrial, non-
cluster single-family detached dwellings, and all other residential uses not
regulated by subsection .2.
      A.   Base Site Area. Certain portions of tracts may not be usable for the
activities proposed for the site. These areas shall therefore be subtracted
from the site area to determine base site area.
(1)   Site area as determined by actual on-site survey                         ___
                                                                                  Ac
(2)   Subtract - land which is not contiguous: i.e.
   (a)   A separate parcel which does not abut or adjoin, nor share common
boundaries with the rest of the development, and/or
   (b)   Land which is cut off from the main parcel by an arterial or collector
roadway, railroad, existing land uses, or major stream so as to serve as a major  ___
barrier to common use, or so that it is isolated and unavailable for building     Ac
purposes. (Each parcel shall be treated separately for the purpose of base site
area determination.)
(3)   Subtract - land that was previously preserved by a conservation easement ___
a condition of an approved plan.                                                  Ac
(4)   Subtract - land used or zoned for another use, i.e., land used or to be  ___
used for commercial or industrial uses in a residential development, or land in a Ac
different zoning district rather than the primary use.
(5)   Subtract - land within ultimate rights-of-way of existing roads, or utili___
rights-of-way or easements.                                                       Ac
                              = BASE SITE AREA      ___
                                                                                  Ac
 
      B.   Impervious Surface Ratio. Shall be calculated for each lot, based
upon the lot area of each lot.
   4.   Suitability of Land. Where land is required to be set aside or
protected for certain purposes, it shall be physically suitable for that
purpose, and shall be arranged in a lot(s) that has a configuration that is
suitable for that purpose. This includes, but is not limited to, protected
agricultural soils, recreation land and required open space for resource
protection. In the AD District, see the provisions for a farmland lot in §
603.D. Stormwater detention basins shall not count as meeting the minimum
requirements for protected productive agricultural soils, recreation land or
required open space for resource protection, unless specifically provided
otherwise by this Ordinance. See the definition of “open space” in §
202.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 509; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 36; Ord. 191,
passed 1-8-2019)
§ 511 Reserved for Future Use.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 510)
§ 512 Design, Maintenance, and Ownership of Open Space.
   1.   Recorded plans and deeds shall indicate that there shall be no
additional development in areas designated for open space, except for allowed
improvements consistent with the furthering of noncommercial recreation,
agricultural, conservation, or aesthetic purposes. The plan shall contain or be
supplemented by such material as required to establish the method by which open
space shall be perpetuated, maintained, and administered. The plan and other
materials shall be construed as a contract between the landowner(s) and the
Township, and shall be noted on all deeds.
   2.   Layout of Open Space.
      A.   Open space shall be laid out in accordance with the best principles
of site design. It is intended that the open space shall be as close to all
residences as possible, with greenways leading to major recreation spaces.
Major recreation areas shall be located to serve all residents. Open space is
most needed in areas of highest density. The intent is to provide open area as
close to the individual units as possible. Narrow strips of land or irregularly
shaped areas shall not be permitted as open space. In open space that was
required to be established to preserve productive agricultural soils, the
configuration of the open space shall be designed so that it is useable for
agricultural purposes. See also §
509.2.J.
      B.   Areas set aside to meet minimum open space requirements, shall
contain no structures, stormwater management facilities, or utility easements,
except as provided in subsection .3.B below.
      C.   Open space areas shall be interconnected with open space areas on
abutting parcels wherever possible.
   3.   Open Space Designation.
      A.   All land held for open space shall be so designated on the plans.
The plans shall contain the following statement for lands in the categories
established in paragraph .C(1), (2), (3) or (4) below: “open space land may not
be further developed except for the addition of farm buildings or other
structures related to continuing agricultural activities on that land by
special exception. Open space shall not be further subdivided except for open
space purposes and by special exception.” In deciding on the special exception,
the Zoning Hearing Board may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards
regarding layout, circulation, and performance it deems necessary to protect
adjacent residential uses from undesirable effects of noise and odor, within
the limitations of the State Right to Farm Act being 3 P.S. §§ 951 - 957 and to
promote a visual character in harmony with the intended nature of the area.
      B.   Rights of way and easements containing existing overhead utility
lines, existing pipelines for the transmission of oil and gas and other
materials and existing or proposed underground electric, telecommunications,
and fiber optics are permitted within the required open space provided they do
not hinder the approved use of that space (e.g., plowing within the AD Zoning
District). Sanitary sewer, including community treatment systems and stormwater
management facilities including basins, shall not be permitted in the open
space.
      C.   All plans shall further designate the use of open space (such as
recreational or for resource protection), the type of maintenance to be
provided, a method to ensure such maintenance will be provided, and a planting
plan with a schedule. In designating use and maintenance, the following classes
may be used:
         (1)   Lawn. A grass area with or without trees which may be used by
the residents for a variety of purposes and which shall be mowed regularly to
insure a neat and orderly appearance. This category is primarily for land for
recreation uses.
         (2)   Natural Area. An area of natural vegetation undisturbed during
construction, or replanted with trees, shrubs, and other plant materials
indigenous to the area. Such areas may contain pathways. Maintenance may be
minimal but shall prevent proliferation of noxious weeds and undesirable plants
such as Canadian Thistle and Multiflora Rosa. Streams shall be kept in free
flowing condition with streamside vegetation left in its natural condition.
This category is primarily for open space for resource protection purposes.
         (3)   Recreation Area. An area designated for a specific recreational
use, including, but not limited to, tennis, swimming, shuffle board, play
field, and tot lot. Such areas shall be maintained so as to avoid creating a
hazard or nuisance, and shall perpetuate the proposed use. This category is
primarily for land for recreational purposes.
         (4)   Farmland or Farmland Lot. A parcel dedicated to agricultural
activities, or a lot created in conformance with §§
509.2.J and
510, either of which are intended to preserve productive agricultural soils,
and which are restricted against further subdivision or nonagricultural
development as provided in §
513.5.
      D.   A minimum of 50 percent of the required open space shall be in one
lot, except that such 50 percent may be separated by a maximum of one street
and may be separated by creeks. Open space may also be traversed by an
accessway limited to emergency vehicles.
   4.   Open Space Performance Bond. A performance bond or other security shall
be required to cover cost of installation of designated planting and recreation
facilities within open space in accordance with provisions of the Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance.
   5.   Methods of Conveyance and Ownership. Open space shall be preserved by
one of the following means which shall be selected by the Board of Supervisors
and shall be subject to the Board of Supervisors’ sole discretion.
      A.   Dedication in Fee Simple to the Township. Prior to acceptance of
open space land, the Board of Supervisors will seek recommendations from the
Township Planning Commission. The Township may, at the sole discretion of the
Board of Supervisors, accept any portion or portions of open space or
recreation areas provided:
         (1)   It is determined by the Board of Supervisors that the land is
suitable and will serve the general public.
         (2)   The Township agrees to and has access to maintain the land.
         (3)   The title is conveyed to the Township without cost.
      B.   Conveyance to a conservancy, corporation, association, funded
community trust, condominium or similar legal entity shall be allowed,
provided:
         (1)   The land shall include a permanent conservation easement
enforceable by the Township, which shall guarantee continued use of the land
for the intended purposes in perpetuity and which shall require approval by
Board of Supervisors prior to ownership of the land being transferred to
another entity.
         (2)   Proper maintenance and continued funding for maintenance must be
guaranteed.
         (3)   The corporation or association shall be responsible for
liability insurance, taxes, and recovery from loss sustained by casualty,
condemnation or otherwise. Certificates of insurance and tax payment receipts
shall be provided to the Township.
         (4)   The corporation or association shall not be dissolved nor shall
it dispose of the open space, except to another similar organization
established to own and maintain the open space and which meets the approval of
the Township. The corporation or association must first offer to dedicate the
open space to the Township at no cost before such sale or disposition of the
open space takes place.
      C.   Conveyance of a permanent conservation easement that is enforceable
by the Township, while the land remains owned by an entity other than the
Township. Such easement may also be granted to a conservancy, corporation,
funded community trust, or similar legal entity as may be approved by the
Township as an additional method of oversight and enforcement.
      D.   Private Holding. The Township may approve that the open space is
part of fee simple lots with a permanent conservation easement enforceable by
the Township, provided:
         (1)   The terms of the agreement guarantee the continued use of the
land for the preservation of open space.
         (2)   The cost and responsibility of maintaining private holding open
space shall be the responsibility of the owner of the open space.
         (3)   Including open space within fee simple lots shall only be
permitted at the discretion of the Board of Supervisors and shall not be part
of any lot necessary to meet requirements for lot width, area, or yards as
specified in Article 6.
      E.   Land designated as open space for preservation and agricultural
soils (resource protection) may include farm buildings, a pre-existing
residence, and other structures related to continuing agricultural activities
on that land. These areas may not be available for public use. All open space
intended for agricultural purposes shall be so designated on the plans. The
plans shall contain the following statement or a similar statement pre-approved
by the Township: “required open space land may not be further developed and
shall not allow any new buildings, except for the addition of accessory farm
buildings or other nonresidential structures related to the agricultural
activities on that land by special exception. Required open space shall not be
further subdivided.” In addition, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions in a form approved by the Township, shall be recorded with respect
to land to be preserved as open space and agricultural soils. See §
513.3.A regarding conditions that may be placed upon a special exception
approval.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 511)
§ 513 Planned Group Development.
   1.   Residential Planned Group Development. The following regulations shall
apply to residential development where planned group development of more than
one building or use is permitted on a single lot, including, but not limited
to, townhouse and apartment development. Planned group developments shall also
comply with all other applicable regulations of this Ordinance.
      A.   The proposed development shall be constructed in accordance with an
overall plan and shall be designed as, or as part of, a single architectural
and landscaping theme. The buildings as a unit shall comply with the area and
yard regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      B.   The tract of land on which each permitted use is conducted shall be
owned and operated as a single or common management and maintenance unit, with
common open space, parking, utility and maintenance facilities.
      C.   Building Arrangement. The use regulations in Article 4 herein shall
apply.
      D.   Underground Utilities. All public utility lines and similar
facilities servicing the proposed development and its area shall be installed
underground and electric transformers shall be installed underground or within
the walls of a completely enclosed building.
      E.   Staged Development. If the development is to be carried out in
stages, each stage shall be so planned to ensure that all requirements of this
Ordinance, such as, but not limited to, density and minimum open space, shall
be fully complied with at the completion of any stage.
      F.   Planned group development shall be subject to the regulations of the
Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
   2.   Nonresidential Planned Group Development. The following regulations
shall apply to nonresidential development where group development of more than
one building or use is permitted on a single lot, including, but not limited
to, groups of office or industrial buildings on a single lot. Planned group
development shall also comply with all other applicable regulations of this
Ordinance.
      A.   The proposed development shall be constructed in accordance with an
overall plan and shall be designed as, or as part of, a single architectural
and landscaping theme. Buildings as a unit shall comply with the area and yard
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. The development
shall consist of a harmonious grouping of buildings, service, and parking area
circulation and open spaces, planned as a single unit, in such manner as to
constitute a safe, efficient and convenient use.
      B.   All buildings and uses shall front upon a common parking lot,
service road, or marginal access road and not directly upon a collector or
arterial highway.
      C.   The tract of land on which each permitted use is conducted shall be
owned and operated as a single or common management and maintenance unit, with
common open space, parking, utility and maintenance facilities.
      D.   All streets and access ways shall conform to the specifications
determined by the Township Engineer and the requirements of the Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. Provisions shall be made for
adequate signalization, turning lanes, deceleration lanes, and other roadway
improvements where deemed necessary by the Township.
      E.   Building Arrangement. The distance between two principal buildings
on a lot shall be equal to or greater than the height of the taller building,
except that the buildings may be attached by an enclosed walkway.
      F.   Underground Utilities. All public utility lines and similar
facilities servicing the proposed development and its area shall be installed
underground and electric transformers shall be installed underground or within
the walls of a completely enclosed building.
      G.   Staged Development. If the development is to be carried out in
stages, each stage shall be so planned that the intent of this Ordinance shall
be fully complied with at the completion of any stage.
      H.   Planned group development shall be subject to the regulations of the
Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
      I.   When more than one building per lot is not specifically provided for
in this Ordinance, multiple buildings on a single lot shall be permitted where
the required lot, area, setback, impervious surface, yard, parking and other
requirements for each individual use or building are provided for on the lot.
The total lot area shall be equal to the required lot areas for the individual
uses or buildings proposed.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 512)
§ 514 HR Historic Resources Overlay District.
   A.   Purpose. The Historic Resources Overlay District consists of those
properties set forth in the Historic Resources List (
Appendix B), and shall be a means to promote the general welfare of Springfield
Township through the following goals.
      1.   To promote the retention of community character through preservation
of the local heritage by recognition and protection of historic resources.
      2.   To establish a clear process by which proposed changes affecting
historic resources are reviewed by the Springfield Township Zoning Officer and
the Springfield Township Historic Commission.
      3.   To mitigate the negative effects of changes affecting historic
resources.
      4.   To encourage the continued use of historic resources and facilitate
their appropriate reuse and/or adaptive reuse or restoration.
      5.   To discourage the demolition of historic resources.
      6.   To implement the following sections of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (MPC):
         a.   Section
603B.(5), which states that, “zoning ordinances may permit, prohibit, regulate,
restrict, and determine protection and preservation of natural and historic
resources.”;
         b.   Section
603G.(2), which states that, “zoning ordinances shall provide for protection of
natural and historic features and resources.”;
         c.   Section
604(1), which states that, “the provisions of zoning ordinances shall be
designed to promote, protect and facilitate any or all of the following:
...preservation of the natural, scenic and historic values…”; and
         d.   Section
605(2)(vi), whereby uses and structures at or near places having unique
historical, architectural, or patriotic interest or value may be regulated.
   B.   Applicability of Regulations:
      1.   These Historic Overlay District regulations shall apply to all
Springfield Township properties, structures, buildings, and cemeteries
designated by this Ordinance as being of historic significance.
      2.   Historically significant properties governed by this Ordinance are
delineated according to the criteria listed in C.2., classified as described in
C.3., and listed in
Appendix B).
      3.   The following activities are exempt from Historic Resources
regulations:
         a.   Demolition of an accessory structure with a floor area of less
than 300 square feet, except for smoke houses, summer kitchens, root cellars,
which shall be regulated by this subsection.
         b.   Interior renovations. Removal of features (such as a rear porch)
that do not harm the structural stability of the building.
         c.   Removal of features that are fewer than fifty (50) years old.
         d.   Relocation of a building within the Township.
      4.   The Historic Commission shall determine, when necessary, if
accessory structures on sites listed in the Historic Resources List (
Appendix B) by themselves have significant value.
   C.   General Provisions.
      1.   Identification. The inventory of Historic Resources for Springfield
Township is contained in
Appendix B).
      2.   Criteria for Determination. A building, structure, object, site or
district may be eligible for inclusion on the Historic Resources Map and
Historic Resources List (
Appendix B), due to the fact that it:
         a.   is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad spectrum of our local, state, or national history; or
         b.   is associated with the lives of people on a local, state, or
national level, who were significant in our past; or
         c.   embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction, or that represents a significant and distinguishable
entity whose components may lack individual distinction (a neighborhood or
village for example); or
         d.   has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
history or prehistory (archeology).
         e.   meets the age criterion of fifty or more years.
      3.    Classifications of historic buildings or structures:
         a.   Class I: Building(s), structures, or sites of historical and
architectural significance, being in original or near original condition, or
with historically sensitive restorations, and which contribute to an
understanding of the historical and architectural development of the township
shall be included in this Class. Those buildings, structures or sites on, or
eligible for inclusion on, the National Registry of Historic Places, or are
included in the Springtown Historic District, shall be included in this Class.
In addition, those buildings and structures which possess the integrity of
design, setting, materials, and workman-ship associated with local history and/
or embody distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of
construction shall be included in this Class.
         b.   Class II: Building(s) of historic significance contributing to an
appreciation of the historical and architectural development of the township,
and maintains most or many elements of the original architectural features and
details, shall be included in this Class. Buildings and structures having
alterations or additions that allow for restoration(s) to the appearance of
original significant historical architecture, architectural features and
details shall be included in this Class.
         c.   Class III: Buildings or structures of some historical
significance, maintaining some elements of the original architectural details,
and have alterations that allow for restoration(s) that approach the appearance
of the original architecture shall be included in this Class.
         d.   Buildings, structures, or sites falling outside the scope of the
above three Classes, but still meeting the criteria listed in section 2 (fifty
or more years old), shall be included on the Historic Resources List (
Appendix B) but shall not be assigned a Class per se.
      4.   Revisions: Every ten (10) years the Springfield Township Historic
Commission shall review the Historic Resources List (
Appendix B) and Map for needed revisions. Revisions are defined as additions
to, deletions from the Historic Resource List (
Appendix B) and Map, or changes in classification. Revisions shall not include
routine list maintenance to update ownership information or to add information
about a change that occurred to the building unless the change alters the
historic character of the building.
   D.   Additions, Alterations, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction to Class I,
II, and III Historic Resources:
      1.   General Requirements: Alterations, additions, reconstruction or
rehabilitation to a Class I, II, or III historic resource shall not be allowed
without approval by the Zoning Officer pursuant to the provisions listed below.
Completed applications shall be reviewed by the Springfield Township Historic
Commission which shall submit written recommendations to the Zoning Officer for
review. A decision shall be forthcoming regarding the application within 30
days of receipt by the Township. Any proposed alteration in structure,
addition, reconstruction or rehabilitation within the Historic Overlay District
shall be in substantial compliance with the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties.
      2.   Application Procedures: The completed application shall include a
written description of the proposed alteration, addition, reconstruction, or
rehabilitation, and where applicable:
         a.   a site plan at a scale to allow sufficient detail for review
         b.   schematic architectural drawings of the proposed construction
         c.   materials list, color samples, and disposition of materials to be
removed
         d.   photographs of the building(s) or structure(s) shall include the
date taken, owner’s name, address and tax parcel number written legibly on the
back of each.
      3.   Review Procedures:
         a.   Completed applications shall be received one (1) week prior to
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Springfield Township Historic
Commission to be placed on the agenda for review at that meeting.
         b.   Applicant Notification: At the time the completed application is
submitted, the Applicant shall be notified of the date, time and place at which
the Historic Commission will review the application. The Applicant or
designated representative may attend the meeting to comment on the application.
         c.   The recommendations of the Springfield Township Historic
Commission shall include findings of fact related to the specific proposal.
         d.   Within five (5) business days of the meeting the Historic
Commission shall submit their written recommendations to the Zoning Officer for
a decision as to:
            (1)   approval of the application
            (2)   denial of the application
            (3)   approval of the application subject to specified changes and/
or conditions to bring the proposed activity into compliance
   E.   Additional Use Opportunities for Historic Resources: In addition to the
uses allowed in the established Zoning Districts under this Ordinance (See Uses
by Zoning District Summary, see
Appendix A), Class I, II, and III Historic Resources, in order to encourage
preservation, shall be eligible for additional use opportunities as described
herein:
      1.   Uses permitted by right:
         a.   B-9 Residential conversion in Zoning Districts: RR, AD, RP, DD,
WS
         b.   C-6 Library or Museum in Zoning Districts: RR, RP, AD, WS
         c.   C-11 Private Organizations, not including tavern or shooting
range in Zoning Districts: AD, RP, WS, RR
         d.   D-1 Medical Office in Zoning Districts: RR, AD, RP, VR
         e.   D-2 Office in Zoning Districts: RR, AD, RP, VR
      2.   Permitted Conditional uses:
         a.   B-1 Boarding House (owner on premises) in Zoning Districts VC, HC
         b.   B-6 Apartments outside of a Performance Subdivision (owner not on
premises) in Zoning District: VR
         c.   C-2 Commercial School in Zoning Districts: AD, RP, DD, WS
         d.   C-3 Day Care Center in Zoning Districts: AD, RP, DD, WS
         e.   D-3 Veterinary Office or Clinic in Zoning Districts: WS, RP, DD
         f.   E-6 Restaurant without drive through in Zoning Districts: WS, AD,
RP, DD, VC
         g.   E-11 Bed and Breakfast in Zoning Districts: RR, AD, RP, DD
         h.   E-18 Retail Trade and Retail Services in Zoning Districts: RR,
AD, RP, VR, HC
   F.    Demolition of Class I, II, and III Historic Resources:
      1.   General Requirements: Demolition, removal, or relocation of an
historic resource shall be regulated in accordance with this Section. No
historic resource shall be demolished, removed or otherwise relocated without a
permit obtained under this provision, except for emergency demolition.
Emergency demolition to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
of Springfield Township and all others within the Township, are regulated under
the Uniform Construction Code, or its successors and the provisions of that
Code shall take precedence over the provisions contained herein.
         a.   Criteria for review: Applicants for a permit to demolish, remove,
a Class I, II or III historic resource, in whole or in part, shall provide a
written statement establishing the following: demolition is necessary due to
the existing building not being able to be used for a permitted use within the
underlying Zoning District;
         b.   the building is structurally unsound; or
         c.   the demolition is necessary to allow a project having
substantial, special, and unusual public benefit, greatly outweighing the
losses of the building(s) or structure(s) regulated by this Section. The Zoning
Officer, with the recommendation of the Historic Commission shall determine
whether the property owner has established one or more of the criteria listed
herein.
      2.   Pre-Demolition requirements: In those instances where an application
for demolition is approved, the Applicant shall allow the Township or
designated expert representative to historically and photographically document
the building(s) or structure(s) to be demolished. A period of not less than
thirty (30) days shall be provided to permit the desired documentation prior to
any demolition.
      3.   Demolition shall be completed within ninety (90) days of the
issuance of the demolition permit.
   G.   New Construction:
      1.   Design guidelines: Basic Principles - The following shall apply to
new construction in a Springfield Township Historic District. New construction
shall retain the community’s historic character and shall achieve architectural
compatibility with surrounding buildings and structures through appropriate
massing, shape, size, materials, orientation, setback, and the like. Therefore
as to:
         a.   size, scale and proportion - new construction should relate to
the dominant proportions, size, and scale of any adjacent and nearby buildings.
         b.   building materials should be compatible with those of the
buildings in the surrounding area. Traditional materials that are common to the
area, such as brick, wood, and stone are preferred but more modern materials
that replicate older (original) materials, but are more durable, shall be
permitted.
         c.   the rhythm and patterns of facades along the street and the
components thereof should be maintained in the new design. Large buildings can
be divided into bays to reflect rhythms exhibited by smaller surrounding
structures.
         d.   cornice and floor-to-floor heights should match those dominant in
the adjacent and surrounding buildings and structures, or incorporate detailing
to suggest those heights.
         e.   new construction should incorporate window and door openings
typical of those in adjacent and surrounding buildings and structures.
         f.   principal facades of new construction should face the same
direction as other existing buildings on the street or as indicated by the
predominant patterns of the surrounding area.
         g.   new construction shall not be placed in a way that adversely
affects a historic resource or streetscape in terms of poorly designed
proximity or visual incongruities.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 515 SD Scenic Overlay District Provisions.
   1.   U. The purpose of the SD Scenic Overlay District is to encourage use of
the land which will be compatible with the rural character of the Township, and
which will protect the following scenic values: (A) the scenic character of the
Township, (B) the entrances to historic villages of the Township, (C) scenic
vistas from roadways, and (D) to encourage orderly development which is
sensitive to the landscape.
   2.   Overlay Concept.
      A.   The SD Scenic Overlay District is an overlay district. It does not
change the underlying density, use, or area and dimensional requirements nor is
it intended to reduce the development opportunities that would otherwise be
permitted by this Ordinance. These procedures do not apply to the following
uses:
         (1)   A-1 Agriculture.
         (2)   B-11a Single-Family Detached Dwelling (< five lots).
         (3)   B-13 Subdivision Creating Large Lots.
      B.   The special review procedures set forth herein apply to those
properties that lie in whole or in part within the Scenic Overlay District. The
Scenic Overlay District is defined as including all properties that are
adjacent to the scenic district roadways as shown on the Zoning Map (
Appendix C) and all properties that can be seen from scenic district roadways
as identified through the Site Analysis and Resource Conservation Plan required
by the Springfield Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
   3.   Procedures.
      A.   Scenic Resource Mapping. Applications for development on properties
that lie in the scenic district shall be accompanied by a map showing the
following:
         (1)   Historic resources–historic sites, buildings and landmarks.
         (2)   Working farms.
         (3)   Location and types of vegetation, including hedgerows, stands of
mature trees, meadows, cultivated fields.
         (4)   Scenic vistas from roadways of streams, valleys, fields, and
hillsides.
      B.   Visual Analysis. Applications for development on properties that lie
in the Scenic Overlay District shall be accompanied by an analysis and sketches
of the existing views from major roads and an analysis and sketches of the
views from major roads as they would appear after the proposed development is
constructed.
   4.   Performance Standards.
      A.   New development shall be sited so as to minimize disturbance of
scenic views of the landscape from a public road where possible. Use of
exterior materials with an historic appearance and earth-tone colors is
recommended.
      B.   Existing tree lines along a public road shall be preserved where
possible, or replacement with new tree lines that serve a similar purpose.
      C.   Where historic sites or structures are visible from a public street,
the views of these areas shall be preserved where possible.
      D.   Significant landscape forms, such as hedgerows, hillsides, and
stream valleys should be integrated into the proposed development as buffers,
lot lines, or focal points in the development.
      E.   Developments proposed for the areas along roads leading into the
villages of Pleasant Valley, Springtown, Zion Hill, and Passer shall be
designed with consideration given to the view of the village from the entrance
road.
      F.   Where the preservation of scenic views may require a greater
intrusion into areas of natural resource restrictions due to steep slopes and
woodlands, the Board of Supervisors, upon favorable recommendation by the
Township Planning Commission, may allow a reduction in the required protection
ratio for steep slopes and woodlands in order to accommodate the protection of
views.
      G.   No billboards are permitted along the public streets that define the
Scenic Overlay District.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 514)
§ 516 Requirement for Internal Streets; Rear Yards along a Street.
   1.   Any subdivision resulting in five or more lots shall utilize an
internal street, as opposed to having driveways entering onto a through street
that existed prior to December 28, 1975. Lane or flag lots are prohibited.
   2.   For each tract of land in existence as of December 28, 1975, no more
than four total new lots shall have been created since December 28, 1975, that
are not served by such an internal street. Any additional new lot beyond such
limit of four new lots that is proposed from such a tract shall be served by a
new internal street, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the
Board of Supervisors at the time of a subdivision plan review that the use of a
new or extended internal street is not possible. The Township may require that
a provision be included on the deed of a new lot stating that the driveway must
be relocated from a public through-street to a new or extended internal street
if such access would be available in the future.
   3.   If an internal street is being extended or constructed, the developer
shall provide an opportunity for owners of adjacent lots to connect a new
driveway to the internal street if that lot owner agrees to close their
driveway onto an existing public through-street.
   4.   New lots with rear yards abutting a public street must meet the reverse
frontage buffer requirements of §
504 of this Ordinance.
   5.   If only a portion of a tract of land is proposed for subdivision at the
present time, the Township may require that the applicant provide a concept
plan of the entire tract to show how internal street access could be
efficiently provided in the future.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 515)
§ 517 Source Water and Wellhead Protection.
   1.   Purposes. In addition to serving the overall objectives of this
Ordinance, this Section is intended to minimize threats to the quality of
groundwater and surface water, particularly those water features that affect
public water supply wells and concentrations of private wells. This Section is
also intended to assist in oversight to ensure compliance with Federal and
State environmental protection regulations that could affect water quality.
   2.   Overlay Districts. This Section establishes two overlay districts that
overlay the conventional underlying zoning districts. One overlay district is
the SW Source Water Protection Overlay District, which shall include all areas
designated as the Source Water Protection Area on the Source Water Protection
Map (
Appendix D) that is part of this Ordinance. The second overlay district is the
WP Wellhead Protection District, which shall include all land within a 400 feet
radius of a public water supply well. Within the two overlay districts, when
two provisions of this Ordinance apply to the same manner, whichever provision
is more restrictive upon the use and development of land and structures shall
apply.
   3.   Prohibited Uses in WP. The following uses are prohibited within the WP
Wellhead Protection Overlay District:
      A.   Medical offices, veterinarian clinics, and funeral homes.
      B.   Sewage treatment facilities with on-site disposal of primary or
secondary treated effluent in excess of 5,000 gpd.
      C.   Bulk storage and mixing of pesticides and fertilizers.
   4.   Prohibited Uses in SW and WP. The following uses are prohibited within
the SW Source Water Protection Overlay District and the WP Wellhead Protection
Overlay District:
      A.   Bulk storage of regulated substances, as established by subsection
.5 below.
      B.   Dry cleaning establishments, other than pickup and drop off
locations.
      C.   Auto repair garage or auto service station.
      D.   Manufacturing involving bulk use or mixing of highly hazardous or
toxic chemicals.
      E.   Junk yards.
      F.   Land application of wastewater and sludges.
      G.   Metal plating establishments.
      H.   Open burning sites and dumps.
      I.   Mineral extraction.
      J.   Bulk storage of road salt.
      K.   Sales, storage, or disposal of fuels or hazardous chemicals.
      L.   Solid waste landfill, solid waste-to-energy plant or solid waste
transfer facility.
      M.   Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases for off-site use.
      N.   Uses which involves as a principal activity the manufacture,
storage, use, transportation or disposal of toxic or regulated substances.
      O.   Uses which involves toxic and regulated substances in quantities
greater than those associated with normal household use.
      P.   Motor vehicle sales area.
      Q.   Cleaning of trucks that transport regulated substances.
      R.   Outdoor stockpiles of industrial materials.
      S.   Open burning of materials containing hazardous substances.
      T.   Battery manufacturing or recycling.
      U.   Metal drum recycling or reprocessing.
      V.   Slaughterhouse, animal rendering or tannery facility.
      W.   Underground injection well.
      X.   On-site disposal of hazardous substances.
   5.   Regulated Substance Limitations.
      A.   The use, storage, manufacture, or disposal of regulated substances
as provided on the following Regulated Substances List is prohibited within the
WP and SW Overlay Districts, except as provided under the general exceptions
provision of this Section:
Regulated Substances List
Regulated Substances List
Acid and basic cleaning solutions
Antifreeze and coolants
Arsenic and arsenic compounds
Bleaches, peroxides
Brake and transmission fluids
Brine solution
Casting and foundry chemicals
Caulking agents and sealants
Cleaning solvents
Corrosion and rust prevention solutions
Cutting fluids
Degreasing solvents
Disinfectants
Electroplating solutions
Explosives
Fire extinguishing chemicals
Food processing wastes
Formaldehyde
Fuels and additives
Gasolines and oils
Glues, adhesives, and resins
Greases
Hydraulic fluid
Industrial and commercial janitorial supplies
Industrial sludges and stillbottoms
Inks, printing and photocopying chemicals
Laboratory chemicals
Liquid storage batteries
Medical, pharmaceutical, dental, veterinary, and hospital solutions
Mercury and mercury compounds
Metals finishing solutions
 
Regulated Substances List
Regulated Substances List
Oil-based paints, primers, thinners, dyes, stains, wood preservatives,
varnishing and cleaning compounds
Painting solvents
PCB’s
Pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, and rodenticides
Plastic resins, plasticizers, and catalysts
Photo development chemicals
Poisons
Polishes
Pool chemicals in concentrated form
Processed dust and particulates
Radioactive sources
Reagents and standards
Refrigerants
Road salts
Roofing chemicals and sealers
Sanitizers, disinfectants, bactericides, and algaecides
Soaps, detergents, and surfactants
Solders and fluxes
Stripping compounds
Tanning industry chemicals
Transformer and capacitor oils/fluids
Water and wastewater treatment chemicals
 
      B.   See also regulations of the Springfield Township Floodplain
Ordinance regarding storage within an identified floodplain area.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-24-2015)
   6.   General Exceptions.
      A.   Many operation and maintenance activities require the use, storage,
and transport of regulated substances in quantities or in a manner that do not
pose a significant threat to water quality. The following general exceptions
specify those activities that are permitted by right within the WP and SW
Districts and do not require a special exception or variance.
         (1)   Exceptions for Transit. The transportation of any regulated
substance through the WP or SW Districts shall be exempt from the provisions of
this regulation provided the transporting motor vehicle is in transit. This
exception shall not apply to on-site storage or overnight parking.
         (2)   Exceptions for Application of Pesticides, Herbicides,
Fertilizers, Fungicides, and Rodenticides. The application of regulated
substances used as pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, fungicides, and
rodenticides in recreation, agriculture, pest control, and aquatic weed control
activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this regulation provided
that:
            (a)   The application shall be in strict conformity with the use
requirement as set forth in the substances EPA registries and as indicated on
the containers in which the substances are sold.
            (b)   When a certified operator is required under Federal or State
regulations, the application of any of the pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers,
fungicides, and rodenticides shall be noted in the records of the certified
operator. Records shall be kept of the date and amount of these substances
applied at each location and said records shall be available for inspection.
            (c)   The application of pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers,
fungicides, and rodenticides for nonresidential or nonagricultural purposes
shall comply with State and/or Federal requirements for permits and/or
certifications. Application of these substances in the no disturbance riparian
buffer is prohibited. Application within the minimal disturbance riparian
buffer or wetlands is also prohibited except for agricultural purposes.
            (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (3)   Exemption for Retail/Wholesale Sales Activities. The storage and
re-sale by retail/wholesale sales of regulated substances in their original
unopened containers shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
         (4)   Exceptions for Office and Commercial Uses. Office and commercial
use of regulated substances below the aggregate sum per month not exceeding 25
gallons where said substance is a liquid or 220 pounds where said substance is
a solid shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section, provided however,
that office and commercial uses that store or handle quantities of regulated
substances exceeding on a monthly basis 25 gallons liquid or 220 pounds solid
shall be need special exception approval within the WP District.
         (5)   Exception for Construction Activities. The activities of
constructing, repairing, or maintaining any facility or improvement on lands
within WP and SW Districts shall be exempt from the provisions of this
regulation provided that all contractors, subcontractors, laborers, material
and their employees when using, handling, storing, or producing regulated
substances in the WP and SW Districts use those applicable Best Management
Practices.
         (6)   Exception for Household Use. In addition to the exemptions
provided for in paragraph .A(2) above, the household use of regulated
substances below the monthly aggregate sum not exceeding 25 gallons where said
substance is a liquid or 220 pounds where said substance is a solid shall be
exempt from the provisions of this regulation provided, however, that household
uses that store or handle quantities of regulated substances exceeding 25
gallons liquid or 220 pounds solid shall be need special exception approval.
         (7)   Exception for Municipal Use. Use by the Township of regulated
substances is exempt from this Section, provided there is compliance with
Federal and State environmental regulations.
         (8)   Exception for Underground Storage of Oil(s). The underground
storage of oil(s) used for heating fuel shall be exempt from the provisions of
this regulation provided, however, that the container used for said storage
shall be located within an enclosed structure (i.e., secondary containment or
any currently approvable containment technology) sufficient to preclude leakage
of oil to the external environment and to afford routine access for visual
inspection (e.g., cement floored basement), and sheltered to prevent the
intrusion of precipitation. Any container used for the underground storage of
oil that is out of service for more than 1 year shall be removed. Any liquid
residue shall be removed and all connecting line or pipes securely capped or
plugged. No underground storage tank shall be installed in the 100-year
floodplain, any riparian buffer or wetland.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
         (9)   Exception for Aboveground Storage of Oil(s). The aboveground
storage of oil(s) used for heating fuel shall be exempt from the provisions of
this regulation provided, however, that the container used for said storage
shall be located over an impervious pad or container sufficient to capture
spills and leakage of oil to the external environment and to afford routine
access for visual inspection and sheltered to prevent the intrusion of
precipitation. Aboveground storage of oils shall be located as far away from
the public water supply wells as possible. No above ground bulk storage of oil
shall occur in the 100-year floodplain, any riparian buffer or wetland.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
   7.   Nonconformities. Any of the land uses, facilities, and/or activities
identified in subsection .3 or .4, lawfully in existence within the WP or SW
Overlay Districts prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, may continue
to exist on the parcel upon which it is located subject to meeting existing
Federal, State, and local regulations including the requirements described in
subsections .8 and .9 below.
   8.   Design Standards.
      A.   Industrial, Commercial, and Manufacturing Facilities.
         (1)   The following design standards apply to industrial, commercial,
and manufacturing facilities that operate within the WP Wellhead Protection
Overlay District:
            (a)   Facilities which store, process, convey, and/or contain
regulated substances shall be designed in such a manner to prevent discharges
of regulated substances to the environment and meet applicable regulatory
requirements (i.e., Occupational Safety and Health Agency (OSHA) standards,
Building and Fire Codes, National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
(NIOSH) standards, EPA and PADEP requirements, etc.)
            (b)   Regulated substances storage areas shall be designed with
containment structures capable of containing 100 percent of the volume of the
largest storage container.
            (c)   No on-site floor drains shall be permitted, unless they drain
to a secure tank, the contents of which are regularly pumped and properly
disposed.
            (d)   Outside storage of regulated substances in drums shall not be
permitted unless stored on containment structures capable of containing 100
percent of the volume of the largest storage container.
      B.   Underground Storage Tanks.
         (1)   The following design standards apply to underground storage
tanks that operate within the WP and SW Overlay Districts:
            (a)   The design and construction of underground storage facilities
shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State requirements including
the rules and regulations of PADEP.
            (b)   The tank shall be constructed of fiberglass-reinforced
plastic, or fiberglass- reinforced plastic composite.
            (c)   The tank and associated tank piping shall provide for
secondary containment for release detection purposes which may include double-
walled tanks and piping, a concrete vault in which the tank and piping is
placed, or an impermeable liner in the excavation zone in which the tank and
piping is placed.
            (d)   The tank shall be equipped with spill and overfill prevention
equipment and a leak detection system.
      C.   Aboveground Storage and Tanks.
         (1)   The following design standards apply to aboveground storage
tanks that operate within the WP and SW Overlay Districts:
            (a)   The design and construction of aboveground storage tanks
shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State regulations.
            (b)   Aboveground storage tanks shall be provided containment
facilities meeting the following design requirements:
               1)   The containment device shall be large enough to contain 100
percent of the volume of the tank, in cases where a single tank is used to
store, handle, use, or produce a hazardous material. In cases where multiple
tanks are used, the containment device shall be large enough to contain 100
percent of the volume of the aggregate tank volumes.
               2)   All containment devices shall be constructed of materials
of sufficient thickness, density, and composition to prevent structural
weakening of the containment device as a result of contact with any hazardous
material and shall be capable of containing any accidental release for at least
a period sufficient to allow detection and removal of the material. Provisions
shall be made for monitoring, testing, and immediate removal of accumulated
precipitation.
            (c)   The design of the tank shall meet applicable technical
standards for the specific type and class of tank as set forth in the
applicable Underwriters Laboratory Standards No. 142 by the American Petroleum
Institute (API), by the American Water Works Association (AWWA), or by the
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). The tanks shall be fabricated, tested,
and installed in accordance with the appropriate codes and standards applicable
to the material to be stored therein.
            (d)   The tank shall be designed with monitoring standards
consistent with the manufacturer’s specifications.
            (e)   The tank shall be tested as required by Federal and State
codes and standards.
            (f)   The tank and containment area shall be protected by a
security fence.
      D.   Agricultural Operations. The following design standards apply to
agricultural operations within the WP and SW Overlay Districts:
         (1)   The keeping of livestock shall be consistent with regulations
provided in Section
404 A-1, A-5 and H-5.
         (2)   A concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO) is a prohibited
use in the WP Overlay District, and permitted as a conditional use in the SWP
Overlay District.
         (3)   The storage of pesticides, other than that typical for household
use, is prohibited in the WP Overlay District. Storage of pesticides in the SWP
Overlay District must comply with regulations provided in Title 15,
Chapter 151 (Floodplains) of this Code.
         (4)   The storage or spreading of manure is prohibited in the WP
Overlay District. Storage of manure in the SWP Overlay District must comply
with regulations provided in Title 15,
Chapter 151 (Floodplains) of this Code.
      E.   On-Lot Wastewater Disposal Facilities. The following design
standards apply to on-lot wastewater disposal facilities within the WP and SW
Districts:
         (1)   Residential and nonresidential wastewater treatment systems must
meet all applicable State, county, and local codes and regulations and must be
designed and operated to not cause the average concentration of nitrate-
nitrogen in groundwater recharged on the property to exceed 10 milligrams per
liter.
         (2)   All new wastewater treatment systems must maintain a minimum
setback distance of 100 feet from public water supply wells, or DEP
requirements, as amended. A larger distance should be provided where feasible.
      F.   Stormwater Management Facilities. The following design standards
apply to stormwater management facilities within the WP and SW Overlay
Districts:
         (1)   Stormwater management facilities including drainage swales,
detention ponds, and retention ponds shall be designed in a manner to provide
optimal protection of the groundwater resources consistent with applicable
Township and PADEP requirements and guidelines.
         (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      G.   Wells. The following design standards apply to well drilling in the
WP and SW Overlay Districts:
         (1)   The drilling of public and individual water supply wells and
irrigation wells shall meet the requirements of PADEP and the County Health
Department.
         (2)   Any well that is not longer used shall be capped in a manner
that avoids entry of surface contaminates into the well.
      H.   Sinkholes. The following design standards apply to sinkholes in the
WP and SW Overlay Districts:
         (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the properly owner to repair
sinkholes in a manner which will prevent the direct inflow of surface water
into the groundwater. This will require the filling of the sinkhole with
concrete, stone, or other appropriate fill.
         (2)   See also the Carbonate Geology provisions of §
509.
   9.   Operating Requirements.
      A.   Industrial, Commercial, and Manufacturing Facilities.
         (1)   The following requirements apply to industrial and commercial
uses within the WP and SW Overlay Districts:
            (a)   Owners of facilities shall apply to the Zoning Officer for a
Wellhead Protection Area Operating Permit within 180 days from the effective
date of this Ordinance or before starting operation of a new facility. All
permits shall be renewed annually thereafter. The permit application shall
contain:
               1)   A list of all regulated substances, including their
quantities, which are stored, handled, used, or produced at the facility being
permitted. This information should be consistent with public disclosure and
reporting requirements in the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986 (SARA) Title III.
               2)   A detailed description of the activities conducted at the
facility that involve the storage, handling, use, and/or production of
regulated substances. Included with this information shall be a description of
the containment structures for hazardous material storage.
               3)   A detailed description of disposal procedures for regulated
substances and wastes and name, address, and telephone number of any waste
haulers used.
               4)   A site map showing the location of the facility and its
property boundaries and the locations where hazardous substances are stored,
handled, used, and produced.
               5)   A contingency and emergency response plan that includes
procedures to be followed to prevent, control, collect, and dispose of any
accidental spill or unauthorized release of a hazardous material.
               6)   An environmental audit identifying areas of noncompliance
with existing Federal, State, and local regulations concerning groundwater
protection. A discussion of the plans to address areas of noncompliance must be
included as part of the audit.
               7)   Prepare Best Management Practices (BMPs) and procedures for
the daily in- house inspection and maintenance of areas where regulated
substances are stored, handled, used, and/or produced. Such procedures shall be
in writing and a log shall be kept of all inspection and maintenance
activities. Such logs shall be available for inspection by the Zoning Officer.
               8)   A detailed description of how the facility plans to comply
with Federal, State, and local stormwater regulations.
               9)   Provide a detailed description of how the facility plans to
comply with the above design standards.
      B.   Underground Storage Tanks.
         (1)   The following operating requirements apply to underground
storage tanks that hold regulated substances or fuel in the WP and SW Overlay
Districts:
            (a)   Owners of underground storage tanks shall apply to the Zoning
Officer for a Wellhead Protection Area Operating Permit within 180 days from
the effective date of this Ordinance or before starting operation of a new
tank. All permits shall be renewed annually thereafter. The permit application
shall contain:
               1)   Description of the tank including age, size, and location
at the facility.
               2)   Description of the type and quantity of material stored in
the tank.
               3)   Documentation that the tank is in compliance with existing
Federal, State, and local regulations including any leak tests performed on the
tank.
               4)   Documentation that the tank is properly registered as
required by Federal and State regulations.
            (b)   Leak detection systems shall be checked for evidence of a
release at least every 30 days.
            (c)   Existing tanks shall be upgraded as required to meet
applicable Federal and State regulations.
            (d)   Owners shall meet Federal and State requirements for release
detection recordkeeping, reporting, and notification.
            (e)   Provide a detailed description of how the owners plan to
comply with the above design standards.
      C.   Aboveground Storage, Tanks.
         (1)   The following operating requirements apply to aboveground
storage tanks that hold fuel or regulated substances within the WP and SW
Overlay Districts:
            (a)   Owners of aboveground storage tanks shall apply to the Zoning
Officer for a Wellhead Protection Area Operating Permit within 180 days from
the effective date of this Ordinance or before starting operation of a new
tank. All permits shall be renewed annually thereafter. The permit application
shall contain:
               1)   Description of the tank including age, size, and location
at the facility.
               2)   Description of the type and quantity of material stored in
the tank.
               3)   Documentation that the tank is in compliance with existing
Federal, State, and local regulations.
               4)   Copy of Spill Prevention Response Plan consistent with
applicable Federal and State regulations and requirements.
            (b)   Existing tanks shall be upgraded as required to meet
applicable Federal and State regulations.
            (c)   Owners shall meet Federal and State requirements for release
detection recordkeeping, reporting, and notification.
            (d)   Provide a detailed description of how the owners plan to
comply with the above design standards.
      D.   Agricultural Operations. The following operating requirements apply
to agricultural lands that operate within the WP and SW Overlay Districts:
         (1)   Owners of lands utilized for agricultural production shall
comply with the Pennsylvania Nutrient Management Act, 3 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 501 et
seq. and accompanying State regulations.
         (2)   Agricultural operations shall utilize integrated pest management
techniques to minimize the risk to groundwater systems associated with the
application of pesticides and herbicides.
         (3)   The Township may require proof of compliance with Federal
pesticide regulations.
   Cooks Creek Watershed Overlay District (CCW). Reserved for future use.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 516; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, §§ 37–41; Ord. 179,
passed 2-24-2015, Art. V; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
Article 6
District Regulations
§ 601 WS Watershed District.
   In the WS District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Permitted by Right Uses. Only the following uses shall be
permitted by right within the WS District: (See also Article 4, “Use
Regulations.”)
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-7 Nursery.
            (e)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (f)   B-2a Group Home.
            (g)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (h)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (i)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (j)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (k)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (l)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (m)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (n)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an Accessory Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (o)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5- 2014)
            (q)   H-9 Spa/hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (t)   H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boiler per §
404.H.(12). (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (u)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (v)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be conditional
uses within the WS District: (See also Articles 4 and 8.)
            (a)   Reserved.
            (b)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast if approved under §
515 in an historic structure.
            (c)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)   
         (3)   Special Exception Uses. Only the following uses shall be special
exception uses within the WS District: (See also Articles 4 and 10.)
            (a)   A-6 Kennel.
            (b)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (c)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (d)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (e)   H-4 Home Occupations Other than Home Occupations That Are
Permitted by Right.
            (f)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations for Uses Other than
Single-Family Cluster Development. The following regulations shall apply within
the WS District unless a more restrictive provision is established by another
section of this Ordinance (such as, but not limited to, Articles 4 and 5):
         (1)   Minimum lot area–6 acres. The following additional requirements
shall apply:
            (a)   See also §
509.2.F which requires larger lot sizes in certain cases.
         (2)   In addition to each lot meeting the lot area requirement per
lot, as provided above, the number of dwelling units allowed on a site for land
in the WS District shall also be limited based upon the Natural Resource and
Site Capacity calculations of §
510.
         (3)   Maximum density–0.18 dwelling units per acre of base site area.
         (4)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.10 per lot.
         (5)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–300 feet.
         (6)   Minimum front yard–75 feet.
         (7)   Minimum side yard–40 feet each.
         (8)   Minimum rear yard–75 feet.
         (9)   Maximum height–35 feet or three stories, whichever is more
restrictive. See exceptions for agricultural buildings.
      C.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations for Single-Family
Cluster Development (SFDC). The following regulations shall apply within the WS
District for SFDC unless a more restrictive provision is established by another
Section of this Ordinance (such as, but not limited to, Articles 4 and 5):
         (1)   Minimum lot area–3 acres, except as follows:
            (a)   A proposed building area shall be designated on any
subdivision or land development plan. The proposed building area shall show the
outer extent of a contiguous area that shall encompass all areas that are
allowed to be used for the construction of buildings, driveways, sewage
disposal facilities and off-street parking spaces and an area 40 feet wide on
each side of all such improvements.
            (b)   If such proposed building area on any lot includes any land
area with slopes of 25 percent or greater slopes, then the SFDC option shall
not be used. If such proposed building area includes any land area with slopes
of 15 to 24.99 percent slopes, but no area of 25 percent or greater slopes,
then an 8-acre minimum lot area shall be required for that lot.
            (c)   Such proposed building area shall be binding upon all future
improvements on the lot, unless the applicant submits a revised subdivision or
land development plan that is approved by the Board of Supervisors, after the
Planning Commission has had an opportunity for a review. Such revised plan
shall only be approved if the applicant proves that the revised proposed
building area would comply with all requirements of Township ordinances.
         (2)   Minimum open space ratio–.50.
         (3)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.10 for the tract.
         (4)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–200 feet.
         (5)   Minimum front yard–75 feet.
         (6)   Minimum side yard–40 feet each.
         (7)   Minimum rear yard–75 feet.
         (8)   Maximum height–35 feet or three stories, whichever is more
restrictive. See exceptions in §
502.8.
         (9)   Maximum density–0.18 dwelling units per acre of base site area.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 600; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, § 07; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 602 AD Agriculture District.
   In the AD District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Permitted by Right Uses. Only the following uses shall be
permitted by right within the AD District: (See also Article 4, “Use
Regulations.”)
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable.
            (g)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (h)   B-2a Group Home.
            (i)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (j)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (k)   B-13 Subdivision Creating Large Lots.
            (l)   C-1 Cemetery.
            (m)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (n)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (o)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (q)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an Accessory Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (t)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5- 2014)
            (u)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (x)   H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boiler per §
404.H.(12). (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (z)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be conditional
uses within the AD District: (See also Articles 4 and 8.)
            (a)   C-4 Golf Course.
            (b)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (c)   D-3 Veterinary Office.
            (d)   E-16 Recreational Campsites.
            (e)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast and certain other additional specified
uses if approved under §
515 in an historic structure.
            (f)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Special Exception Uses. Only the following uses shall be special
exception uses within the AD District: (See also Articles 4 and 10.)
            (a)   A-5 Intensive Agriculture.
            (b)   A-6 Kennel.
            (c)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (d)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (e)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (f)   F-5 Commercial Communications Antenna/Tower, except such use
is prohibited within the scenic overlay district.
            (g)   H-4 Home Occupations, other than home occupations that are
permitted by right.
(Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
            (h)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations for Uses Other than
Single-Family Detached Cluster Development. The following regulations shall
apply within the AD District unless a more restrictive provision is established
by another section of this Ordinance (such as, but not limited to, Articles 4
and 5):
         (1)   Maximum height–see §
603 .F.
         (2)   Single-family detached dwelling–B-11a and B-11b:
            (a)   The following provisions shall apply if a site included 10 or
more acres of site area as of the effective date of this Ordinance:
               1)   Site capacity calculations shall be required as provided in
§
510.B.
               2)   See the farmland lot provisions in paragraph .D, and the
productive agricultural soil provisions in §§
509.2.J and
510.2.
(Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
               3)   Minimum lot area–1 acre.
               4)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.25.
               5)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–150
feet.
               6)   Minimum yards (in feet)–50 front, 15 each side, 35 rear.
               7)   Maximum density–0.33 dwelling unit per acre of base site
area.
            (b)   The following provisions shall apply if clause (a) above does
not apply:
               1)   Minimum lot area–3 acres.
               2)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–0.15.
               3)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–200
feet.
               4)   Minimum yards (in feet)–75 front, 30 each side, 75 rear.
         (3)   Intensive Agriculture–A-5.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–25 acres.
            (b)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.10.
            (c)   minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–400 feet.
            (d)   Minimum yards (in feet)*–100 front, 100 each side, 100 rear.
   *In addition to the yards, a 300-feet minimum building setback shall apply
from a building that is used to house an intensive agriculture use to any lot
line of a lot that is zoned VC, VR or DD or from any dwelling that is in
another district.
         (4)   Other Allowed Use.
            (a)   Minimum lot area–3 acres.
            (b)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.15.
            (c)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–200 feet.
            (d)   Minimum yards (in feet)–75 front, 30 each side, 75 rear.
      C.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Requirements for Single-Family
Detached Cluster Development (“SFDC”), Use B-12.
 
              Maximum Building Maximum       Minimum Lot Area  Minimum Open
              Coverage         Impervious    (one dwelling     Space Ratio
                               Surface Ratio unit per lot)
SFDC Option 1 .25              .35           0.5 acre          .70
SFDC Option 2 .20              .30           0.75 acre         .60
SFDC Option 3 .15              .25           1 acre            .45
 
 
              Minimum Lot Width at Maximum Building Minimum Yards: Front/
              Minimum Building     Height*          Each Side/Rear (feet)
              Setback Line (feet)
SFDC Option 1 90                   35               50/15/35
SFDC Option 2 120                  35               50/15/35
SFDC Option 3 130                  35               50/15/35
*Or three stories, whichever is more restrictive.
 
         (1)   Maximum density–0.33 dwelling units per acre of base site area.
         (2)   For SFDC Option 1, the Board of Supervisors may approve
providing central sewage treatment services for this option as an amendment to
its Act 537 Plan where it is demonstrated that this option will maximize the
amount of protective agricultural soils preserved while meeting the other
objectives of the AD Agricultural District as stated in §
305 hereof. Central water may also be provided where it is established that
central water will assure the protection of maximum amount of protected
agricultural soils and will have no greater impact on groundwater resources
than individual wells. Such facilities shall be in compliance with the
provisions of §
512.3.B of the Township Zoning Ordinance.
         (3)   For SFDC Option 2 and Option 3, individual on-lot sewage
disposal facilities and individual wells shall be required.
         (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
      D.   Farmland Lot. If a site included 10 or more acres of site area as of
the effective date of this Ordinance (October 7, 2007), then one farmland lot
shall be provided. The farmland lot shall encompass the “agricultural soils,
productive” that are required to be protected pursuant to §§
509.2.J and
510.2 of this Ordinance.
         (1)   A farmland lot shall not be required when the lot or tract to be
subdivided contains less than 2 acres of productive agricultural soils that are
required to be protected pursuant to §§
509.2.J and
510.2 of this Ordinance.
         (2)   A lot or tract of land in existence as of October 7, 2007, (the
“parent tract”) which contains soils required to be protected hereunder may be
subdivided to create one additional lot (the “exempted lot”) without creating a
farmland lot under the following conditions:
            (a)   Only one exempted lot is permitted to be created out of a
parent tract.
            (b)   The area of the exempted lot shall not exceed 5 acres.
            (c)   The exempted lot shall be deed restricted from further
subdivision.
            (d)   Any further subdivision of the parent tract shall provide a
farmland lot containing the amount of productive agricultural soils required to
be protected pursuant to the requirements of §§
509.2.J and
510.2 of this Ordinance based upon the size and area of the parent tract as it
existed prior to the subdivision creating the exempted lot.
            (e)   A note shall be placed on the record plan of subdivision
stating substantially as follows: “any future subdivision of the parent tract
shall provide a farmland lot containing the amount of productive agricultural
soils required to be protected pursuant to §§
509.2.J and
510.2 of the Township Zoning Ordinance as these Sections existed on the date
this plan is recorded.”
         (3)   The farmland lot shall be subject to a deed restriction or
conservation easement that assures that productive agricultural soils required
to be protected hereunder are not built upon and are not otherwise disturbed
such that their character as productive agricultural soils is adversely
impacted. Areas of the farmland lot that are protected by a deed restriction or
conservation easement against additional subdivision, building, and development
shall count toward the required amount of open space, as applicable.
         (4)   The farmland lot shall be a contiguous area within a minimum
dimension of 200 feet and which has a shape that is suitable for modern
agriculture and horticulture uses.
         (5)   The farmland lot may include one dwelling unit and agricultural
buildings, but no other nonagricultural structures.
         (6)   If a new dwelling is proposed, the farmland lot shall contain a
building envelope of not greater than 2 acres for the proposed dwelling as long
as the Productive Agriculture Soils that are required to be protected pursuant
to §§
509.2.J and
510.2 remain undisturbed. The portion of the farmland lot to be utilized for
new residential purposes shall be delineated by metes and bounds on the
subdivision plan and deed restricted in a manner acceptable to the Township.
         (7)   The farmland lot shall be readily accessible to a public street
or street constructed to provide convenient access by farm machinery to the
site but shall not be divided by new subdivision street or lot that would
interfere with its suitability for farming.
         (Ord. 154, passed 11-24-2009)
      E.   Right to Farm.
         (1)   In order to protect and encourage the development and
improvement of farmland within the Township for the production of food and
other agricultural products, this Ordinance strives to protect and encourage a
positive agricultural business climate by protecting commercial farms operated
in accordance with acceptable methods and techniques of agricultural production
from unnecessary regulation or unreasonable nuisance actions.
         (2)   This Ordinance recognizes the protection that is provided for
normal farming practices under the Pennsylvania Right to Farm Act, being 3 P.S.
§§ 951 - 957.
         (3)   This Ordinance recognizes that certain regulatory matters may be
preempted by the Pennsylvania Right to Farm Act being 3 P.S. §§ 951 - 957 or
the Pennsylvania Nutrient Management Act, 3 P.a.C.S.A. §§ 501 et seq.
         (4)   Current and prospective residents are hereby placed on notice
that noise, dust and odors and use of pesticides and herbicides and the
spreading of nutrients are a typical part of normal farming practices and that
these practices may create nuisances and impacts that may be noticeable and
objectionable to residents, and that the resident’s ability to file a nuisance
action and the Township’s ability to control nuisances concerning agricultural
activities is limited by State law.
      F.   Maximum height for all uses–three stories or 35 feet, whichever is
more restrictive. See exceptions in §
501.8, including for agricultural buildings.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 601; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, §§ 06, 07; Ord.
154, passed 11-24-2009, § 01; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176, passed
1-5-2015, § 08; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 603 RP Resource Protection District.
   In the RP District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right (see also Article 4):
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable.
            (g)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (h)   B-2a Group Home.
            (i)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (j)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (k)   B-13 Subdivision Creating Large Lots.
            (l)   C-1 Cemetery.
            (m)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (n)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (o)   H-1 Accessory Apartments. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   H-3 Family Cay Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (q)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an Accessory Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (t)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5- 2014)
            (u)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (x)   H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boiler per §
404.H.(12). (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (z)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be allowed as
conditional uses (see also Articles 4 and 8):
            (a)   B-8 Private Camp/Cottage Development.
            (b)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (c)   E-16 Recreational Campsites.
            (d)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast and certain other additional uses if
approved under §
515 in an historic structure.
            (e)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses (see also Articles 4 and 5):
            (a)   A-6 Kennel.
            (b)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (c)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (d)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (e)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (f)   H-4 Home occupations other than home occupations that are
permitted by right.
            (g)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs shall be allowed in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations for Uses Other than
Single-Family Cluster Development. The following regulations shall apply within
the RP District unless a more restrictive provision is established by another
Section of this Ordinance (such as, but not limited to, Articles 4 and 5):
         (1)   Minimum lot area–3 acres.
            (Ord. 144, passed 12-11-2007)
         (2)   In addition to each lot meeting the lot area requirement per
lot, as provided above, the number of dwelling units allowed on a site for land
in the RP District under Uses B11a and B11b shall also be limited, based upon
the Natural Resource and Site Capacity calculations of §
510.
            (a)   Maximum density–0.33 dwelling units per acre of base site
area.
            (b)   Maximum building coverage–0.10 per lot.
            (c)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.15 per lot.
            (d)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–200 feet.
            (e)   Minimum front yard–60 feet.
            (f)   Minimum side yard–40 feet each.
            (g)   Minimum rear yard–60 feet.
            (h)   Maximum height–35 feet or two and one-half stories, whichever
is more restrictive. See exceptions for agricultural buildings.
      C.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations for Single-Family
Cluster Development (SFDC). The following regulations shall apply within the RP
District for SFDC unless a more restrictive provision is established by another
Section of this Ordinance (such as, but not limited to, Articles 4 and 5):
         (1)   Any parcel larger than 10 acres may be developed as a cluster
(Use B-12), unless it is demonstrated that clustering impacts more of the
environmental resources defined in the resource protection calculation (§
509.2) than does non-clustered development (see paragraph .B, above).
         (2)   Minimum lot area–1 acre, except as follows:
            (a)   A proposed building area shall be designated on any
subdivision or land development plan. The proposed building area shall show the
outer extent of a contiguous area that shall encompass all areas that are
allowed to be used for the construction of buildings, driveways, sewage
disposal facilities and off-street parking spaces and an area 40 feet wide on
each side of all such improvements.
            (b)   If such proposed building area on any lot includes any land
area with slopes of 25 percent or greater slopes, then the SFDC option shall
not be used. If such proposed building area includes any land area with slopes
of 15 to 24.99 percent slopes, but no area of 25 percent or greater slopes,
then a 3-acre minimum lot area shall be required for that lot.
            (c)   Such proposed building area shall be binding upon all future
improvements on the lot, unless the applicant submits a revised subdivision or
land development plan that is approved by the Board of Supervisors, after the
Planning Commission has had an opportunity for a review. Such revised plan
shall only be approved if the applicant proves that the revised proposed
building area would comply with all requirements of Township ordinances.
         (3)   Minimum open space ratio–.50.
         (4)   Maximum impervious surface ratio–.10 for the tract.
         (5)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line–150 feet.
         (6)   Minimum front yard–50 feet.
         (7)   Minimum side yard–15 feet each.
         (8)   Minimum rear yard–35 feet.
         (9)   Maximum height–35 feet or two and one-half stories, whichever is
more restrictive. See exceptions in §
502.8.
         (10)   Maximum density–0.33 dwelling units per acres of base site
area.
      D.   Additional Requirements for Single-Family Detached Cluster (“SFDC”)
Developments.
         (1)   The maximum number of dwelling units on a SFDC tract shall not
exceed the number of units that would be permitted under a non-clustered
subdivision for Use B-11a or B-11b Single-Family Detached Dwellings.
         (2)   See also provisions for use B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster
in §
404.B.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 602; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, § 08; Ord. 173,
passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2015, § 09; Am. Ord. 191, passed 1-
8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 604 RR Rural Residential District.
   In the RR District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right (see also Article 4):
            ((a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable.
            (g)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (h)   B-2a Group Home.
            (i)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (j)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (k)   B-13 Subdivision Creating Large Lots.
            (l)   C-1 Cemetery.
            (m)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (n)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (o)   H-1 Accessory Apartments. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (q)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an Accessory Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5- 2014)
            (t)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (u)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (x)   H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boiler per §
404.H.(12). (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (z)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be allowed as
conditional uses (see also Articles 4 and 8):
            (a)   C-4 Golf Course.
            (b)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (c)   E-16 Recreational Campsites.
            (d)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast and certain other specific uses if
approved under §
515  in an historic structure.
            (e)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses (see also Articles 4 and 5):
            (a)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (b)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (c)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (d)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (e)   H-4 Home Occupations other than home occupations that are
permitted by right.
            (f)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs shall be allowed in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations. The following
regulations shall apply within the RR District unless a more restrictive
requirement is established by another Section of this Ordinance (such as by
Article 4):
 
                   Maximum Building   Minimum Open Space Maximum, Impervious
                   Coverage (Per Lot) Ratio              Surface Ratio
B-11a or B-11b
Single-Family      .10                –                .15
Detached Dwelling
B-12 Single-Family 0.10               .40                .15
Cluster
Other allowed use  .10                –                .15
 
 
                Minimum Lot Minimum Lot                       Minimum Yards:
Dwelling Type   Area** (sq. Width at Minimum Maximum Building Front/Each Side/
                ft.)        Bldg. Setback    Height (feet)*   Rear (feet)
                            Line (feet)
B-11a or B-11b
Single- Family  2 acres     200              35               60/30/60
Detached
Dwelling
B-12 Single-
Family Detached 1 acre      150              35               50/15/35
Cluster
Other allowed   2 acres     200              35               60/40/60
uses
*Or a maximum of two and one-half stories, whichever is more restrictive.
**Per dwelling unit for residential uses.
 
      C.   Maximum density within the RR Zoning District (Use B11a, B11b, and
B12) is one-half dwelling units per acre of base site area.
      D.   Additional Requirements for Single-Family Detached Cluster (“SFDC”)
Developments.
         (1)   See also provisions for use B-12 Single-family Detached Cluster
in §
404.B.
         (2)   A minimum gross site area of 10 acres shall be required.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 603; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, § 10; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 605 DD Development District.
   In the DD District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right (see also Article 4):
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (g)   B-2a Group Home.
            (h)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (i)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (j)   C-6 Library or Museum.
            (k)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (l)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (m)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (n)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (o)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (q)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an accessory use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (s)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (t)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5- 2014)
            (u)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (x)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (y)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (z)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be conditional
uses (see also Articles 4 and 8):
            (a)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable.
            (b)   B-5 Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park.
            (c)   B-7 Performance Subdivision (limited to the uses: B-4 Duplex
Dwelling, B-6 Apartments, B-11a and B-11b Single-family Detached Dwellings, B-
14 Townhouse Dwellings, B-15 Twin Dwellings and B-16 Village Houses).
            (d)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast if approved under §
514  in an historic structure.
            (e)   C-9 Personal Care Facility.
            (f)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (g)   F-2 Emergency Services.
            (h)   H-2 One Dwelling in Combination with a Business.
            (i)   (C-16) Continuing Care Retirement Community.
            (j)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Special Exception Uses. Only the following uses shall be allowed
as special exception uses (see also Articles 4 and 10):
            (a)   B-2c Group Home as Land Development.
            (b)   C-8 Nursing Home.
            (c)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (d)   C-11 Private Organization.
            (e)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (f)   H-4 Home Occupations, other than types permitted by right.
            (g)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs shall be allowed in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations. The following
regulations shall apply within the DD District, for uses other than Mobile
(Manufactured) Home Parks, unless a more restrictive provision is established
by another section of this Ordinance (such as in Article 4):
 Maximum Density Minimum Open Space Maximum Impervious Minimum Gross Site Area
                 Ratio              Surface Ratio
                                                     Minimum Maximum    Minimum
                                             Maximum Open    Impervious Gross
                                             Density Space   Surface    Site
                                                     Ratio   Ratio      Area
B-11a or B-11b. Single-Family Detached       –     –     .30        –
Dwellings
B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster          4       .30     .30        3 acres
B-7 Performance Subdivision                  4       .35     .40        3 acres
C-16 Continuing Care Retirement Community                               10
                                                                        acres
– Mixed Residential/Medical/Access ory Use 15 DU/  .50     0.50
Building                                     acre
– Other housing types allowed as Use B-7   6 DU/   0.35    .40
                                             acre
Other Allowed Use                            –     –     .40        –
 
              Minimum Lot Area*  Minimum Lot Width at  Minimum Yards: Front/
Dwelling Type (sq. ft.)          Minimum Bldg. Setback Each Side/Rear (feet)
                                 Line (feet)
                                                                                        Minimum
                                                                               Minimum  Lot Width  Minimum
                                                                               Lot      at Minimum Yards:
Dwelling Type                                                                  Area*    Bldg.      Front/Each
                                                                               (sq.     Setback    Side/Rear
                                                                               ft.)     Line       (feet)
                                                                                        (feet)
B-11a or B-11b. Single-Family Detached Dwelling**                              10,000   90         25/10/35
B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster**                                          7,000    60         25/8/35
B-7 Performance Subdivision**:
– Single-Family Detached Dwelling                                            6,000    55         25/6/25
– Twin Dwelling or Village House unless smaller setbacks allowed in Section  5,000    45         25/6/25
403.B.16 for a Village House
                                                                                        90, except
                                                                                        see
– Other Allowed Housing Types– as provided in Section                      None     Section    25/6/25
403.B. for a Performance Subdivision                                           required 403.B.14
                                                                                        for
                                                                                        townhouses
                                                                                                   50/50/50
                                                                                                   around site
C-16 Continuing Care Retirement Community                                               250        perimeter,
                                                                                                   otherwise
                                                                                                   requirements
                                                                                                   of B-7
Other Allowed Uses or Single Family Detached Dwelling without Central Water    43,560   110        35/20/40
and Central Sewage Services
* Per dwelling unit for residential uses.
** Township-approved central sewage and central water services shall both be provided.
 
      C.   Additional Requirements for a Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park. See
also additional requirements in §
404.B, including requirements for perimeter setbacks.
 
                               Minimum Open    Maximum
               Maximum Density Space Ratio for Impervious        Minimum Gross
                               the Site        Surface Ratio for Site Area
                                               the Site
B-5 Mobile
(Manufactured) 4.0             .20             .40               5 acres
Home Park **
** Township-approved central sewage and central water services shall both be
provided.
 
 
                    Minimum Lot Width   Minimum Yards:       Minimum Distance
                    at Minimum Bldg.    Front/Each Side/Rear Between Buildings
                    Setback Line (feet) (feet)               (feet)
B-5 Mobile
(Manufactured) Home 200                 15/15/15             30
Park
 
      D.   Maximum height for all uses–three stories or 35 feet, whichever is
more restrictive. See exceptions in §
501.8, including for agricultural buildings.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 604; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 191, 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 606 VC Village Commercial District.
   In the VC District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right (see also Article 4):
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   B-2a Group Home.
            (g)   B-6 Apartments, which shall only be allowed on the same lot
as a lawful principal commercial use, and which shall be limited to a maximum
of four dwelling units and provided that there is a minimum of 10,000 square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit.
            (h)   B-7 Performance Subdivision (limited to the uses: B-4 Duplex
Dwelling, B-6 Apartments, B-11a and B-11b Single-Family Detached Dwellings, B-
14 Townhouse Dwellings, B-15 Twin Dwellings, and B16 Village Houses).
            (i)   Reserved.
            (j)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (k)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (l)   B-15 Twin Dwellings.
            (m)   B-16 Village House.
            (n)   C-2 Commercial School.
            (o)   C-3 Day Care Center.
            (p)   C-6 Library or Museum.
            (q)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (r)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (s)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (t)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (u)   D-1 Medical Office or D-2 Office. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   D-3 Veterinary Office or Clinic. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   E-5 Convenience Store, not involving sales of fuel. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (x)   E-6 Restaurant Without Drive-Through Service. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   E-8 Entertainment, limited to indoor uses with a maximum
building floor area of 5,000 square feet, and not including an Adult
Entertainment Use. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (z)   E-9 Financial Institution, which may include Drive-Through
Service. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   E-10 Funeral Home. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (bb)   E-11 Bed-and-Breakfast. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (cc)   E-17 Repair Shop. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (dd)   E-12 and E-18 Retail Trade and Service, provided that no
establishment shall have a building floor area greater than 15,000 square feet,
and with drive-through service being prohibited. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ee)   E-21 Parking Lot or Garage, not primarily involving tractor-
trailer trucks or trailers of such combinations. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ff)   F-2 Emergency Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (gg)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (hh)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ii)   H-2 One Dwelling Unit in Combination with a Principal
Business on the Same Lot. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (jj)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (kk)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ll)   H-6 Outside Storage, as accessory to an allowed principal
use. In no case shall outdoor storage exceed 10 percent of the total lot area
of a lot. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (mm)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (nn)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (oo)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (pp)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (qq)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (rr)   H-13 accessory use or structure. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ss)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (tt)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be allowed as
conditional uses (see also Articles 4 and 8):
            (a)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (b)   E-23 Tavern.
            (c)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses (see also Articles 4 and 5):
            (a)   B-9 Residential Conversion.
            (b)   C-8 Nursing Home.
            (c)   C-9 Personal Care Facility.
            (d)   C-11 Private Organization.
            (e)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (f)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs shall be allowed in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations. The following
regulations shall apply within the VC district, unless a more restrictive
provision is established by another section of this Ordinance (such as Articles
4 and 5):
 Maximum Density Minimum Open Space Maximum Impervious Minimum Gross Site Area
                 Ratio              Surface Ratio
                                                     Minimum Maximum    Minimum
                                             Maximum Open    Impervious Gross
                                             Density Space   Surface    Site
                                                     Ratio   Ratio      Area
B-11a or B-11b. Single-Family Detached
Dwellings, B-15 Twin Dwellings or B-16       –     –     .50        –
Village House**
B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster**        4       .30     .30        1 acre
B-7 Performance Subdivision ***              4       .35     .50        1 acre
C-16 Continuing Care Retirement Community                               10
                                                                        acres
– Mixed Residential/Medical/Access ory Use 15 DU/  0.50    0.50
Building                                     acre
– Other housing types allowed as Use B-7   6 DU/   0.35    0.50
                                             acre
Other Allowed Use                            –     –     .50        –
** Township-approved central sewage and central water services shall both be
provided. *** See standards under Use B-7 in Section
403 regarding water and sewage services.
 
              Minimum Lot Area*  Minimum Lot Width at  Minimum Yards: Front/
Dwelling Type (sq. ft.)          Minimum Bldg. Setback Each Side/Rear (feet)
                                 Line (feet)
                                                                         Minimum
                                                                Minimum  Lot Width  Minimum
                                                                Lot      at Minimum Yards:
Dwelling Type                                                   Area*    Bldg.      Front/Each
                                                                (sq.     Setback    Side/Rear
                                                                ft.)     Line       (feet)
                                                                         (feet)
B-11a or B-11b. Single-Family Detached Dwelling or B-16 Village
House (outside of a Performance Subdivision, unless a smaller   10,000   90         25/10/35
yard is allowed for a Village House in Section                                       
403.B.(16):
– With Township-approved central sewage and central water     35,000   90         25/10/35
services
– With Township-approved central sewage but not central water 43,560   110        25/10/35
service
– Without Township-approved central sewage
B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster                             7,000    60         25/8/35
B-15 Twin Dwellings (outside of a Performance Subdivision)      7,000  60*        25/10/35
B-7 Performance Subdivision
– Single-Family Detached Dwelling                             6,000    50         25/6/25
– Twin Dwelling                                               5,000*   50*        25/6/25
                                                                         90, except
                                                                         Section
– Other Allowed Housing Types - As provided in in Section     None     403.B14    25/6/25
403.B. for a Performance Subdivision                                     applies
                                                                         for
                                                                         townhouses
                                                                                    50/50/50
                                                                                    around site
C-16 Continuing Care Retirement Community                                250        perimeter,
                                                                                    otherwise
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    of B-7
Other Allowed Use                                               43,560   110        35/20**/40
*Per dwelling unit for residential uses.
**Except a 40 feet minimum building setback shall apply for a non-residential principal
commercial building to the lot line of a lot in a residential district.
 
         (1)   Maximum building height–a maximum of 3 stories or 40 feet,
whichever is more restrictive.
      C.   Site Design Standards and Guidelines. To promote infill traditional
neighborhood development, as authorized by the State Municipalities Planning
Code, the following additional standards and guidelines shall apply in the VC
District.
         (1)   A maximum of 10 percent of the required off-street parking
spaces may be met by providing on-street parking spaces along a newly built
public street, provided that the spaces are within 250 feet of the use being
served by the parking.
         (2)   All streets shall include a hard surface pathway meeting
Township requirements on both sides of the street, if sidewalks are not
required.
         (3)   If a new principal building is constructed on a vacant lot, at
least a portion of one such building shall be located a maximum of 75 feet from
the existing or ultimate street right-of-way of a public street.
         (4)   All lots shall have provisions for well-marked pedestrian routes
from a public street to a pedestrian entrance of a principal building. This may
include, but not be limited to, a path between adjacent rows of parking
vehicles, that is protected by curb or curb stops from the adjacent parking
spaces. Individual buildings and pedestrian entrances and parking areas shall
be laid out to promote pedestrian access among different uses.
         (5)   A building shall have a maximum length of 200 feet if it is
parallel to a public street, unless the building is designed to appear to be
two or more distinct buildings that are attached to each other.
         (6)   Where parking or buildings do not currently exist, a minimum
width of 10 feet adjacent to the curbline of an arterial street shall be
planted and maintained in grass or other vegetative groundcover, except for
necessary approximately perpendicular driveway crossings. Trees and shrubs
shall also be planted in this vicinity, provided they do not obstruct safe
sight distances. Where a sidewalk is provided, such 10 feet width may be
provided in two segments, provided that the total width totals at least 10
feet. Where curb is not provided, such width shall be measured from the street
right-of-way. Pre-existing parking spaces may be rearranged, provided they do
not result in an increase in the land area covered by off-street parking spaces
in such location.
         (7)   Buildings may be developed in a condominium arrangement without
each building being on its own minimum sized lot provided the applicant proves
that the same dimensional requirements could be met as if the dwellings were in
fee-simple ownership. For example, if a 10 feet side yard is required on each
side of two buildings, then a 20 feet separation shall be provided, although a
lot line would not need to exist between the two buildings.
         (8)   Before zoning approval is granted for any new principal
building, a conceptual architectural plan shall be submitted to the Township
for review by the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors. Such plans
shall show the front elevation of the building and shall list the types of
exterior building materials of the front facade.
         (9)   Street level storefronts shall be inviting to pedestrians.
         (10)   Loading and unloading spaces for trucks shall not block major
pedestrian ways or create blind spots.
         (11)   Design Guidelines. The following advisory guidelines are
recommended to be used by the Township and applicants in the VC District:
            (a)   Parking. Parking areas should be well screened from arterial
roads by landscaping and/or a decorative masonry wall.
            (b)   Blank Walls. Blank walls without door and window openings
should be avoided along a street. Overly modernistic or bland buildings devoid
of details should be avoided when adjacent buildings have architectural
details.
            (c)   Fencing. Chain link metal fencing should be avoided in the
front yard.
            (d)   Materials. On building sides facing a street, new
construction should use building materials that are similar to appearance to
older buildings, such as brick, stone, glass, clapboard-type siding.
            (e)   Buildings of over 100 feet in length should be designed to
have the appearance of inter-connected buildings and to avoid the appearance of
monotony. This should be accomplished through variations in rooflines,
overhangs, setbacks, colors and facade materials and use of canopies, porches
and awnings.
            (f)   Buildings should have a pitched or peaked roof as viewed from
an arterial street or have a decorative cornice roof.
            (g)   Retail stores should have display windows facing onto the
street.
            (h)   To the maximum extent feasible, off-street parking should be
located to the rear or side of nonresidential buildings.
            (i)   Buildings should be designed and arranged to provide a
character similar to an older village.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 605; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, § 12; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 607 VR Village Residential District.
   In the VR District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right (see also Article 4):
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   B-2a Group Home.
            (g)   B-7 Performance Subdivision (limited to the uses: B-4 Duplex
Dwelling, B-6 Apartments, B-11a and B-11b Single-family Detached Dwellings, B-
14 Townhouse Dwellings, B-15 Twin Dwellings, and B16 Village Houses).
            (h)   Reserved.
            (i)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (j)   B-12 Single-Family Detached Cluster.
            (k)   B-15 Twin Dwellings.
            (l)   B-16 Village House.
            (m)   C-1 Cemetery.
            (n)   C-3 Day Care Center.
            (o)   C-6 Library or Museum.
            (p)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (q)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (r)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (s)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (t)   F-2 Emergency Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (u)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   H-1 Accessory Apartment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (x)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an accessory use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (z)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (bb)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (cc)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (dd)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (ee)   H-13 Customarily accessory use or structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (ff)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (gg)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
         (2)   Conditional Uses. Only the following uses shall be allowed as
conditional uses (see also Articles 4 and 8):
            (a)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast.
            (b)   C-13 Public or Private Primary or Secondary School.
            (c)   (C-16) Continuing Care Retirement Community. (Ord. 191,
passed 1-8-2019)
            (d)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses (see also Articles 4 and 5):
            (a)   B-9 Residential Conversion.
            (b)   C-8 Nursing Home.
            (c)   C-9 Personal Care Facility.
            (d)   C-11 Private Organization.
            (e)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (f)   H-4 Home Occupations, other than types permitted by right.
            (g)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs shall be allowed in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Dimensional, Open Space and Coverage Regulations. The following
regulations shall apply within the VR District, unless a more restrictive
provision is established by another section of this Ordinance (such as Articles
4 and 5):
         Uses in the VR District shall meet the same requirements (including,
but not limit to, dimensional, height, open space and coverage requirements) as
are provided in Section
606.B. for the VC District.
      C.   Site Design Standards and Guidelines. To promote infill and
traditional neighborhood development, as authorized by the State Municipalities
Planning Code, the following additional standards and guidelines shall apply in
the VR district.
         (1)   A maximum of 10 percent of the required off-street parking
spaces may be met by providing on-street parking spaces along a newly built
public street, provided that the spaces are within 250 feet of the use being
served by the parking.
         (2)   All streets shall include a hard surface pathway meeting
Township requirements on both sides of the street, if sidewalks are not
required.
         (3)   If a new principal building is constructed on a vacant lot, at
least a portion of one such building shall be located a maximum of 75 feet from
the existing or ultimate street right-of-way of a public street.
         (4)   All lots shall have provisions for well-marked pedestrian routes
from a public street to a pedestrian entrance of a principal building. This may
include, but not be limited to, a path between adjacent rows of parking
vehicles, that is protected by curb or curb stops from the adjacent parking
spaces. Individual buildings and pedestrian entrances and parking areas shall
be laid out to promote pedestrian access among different uses.
         (5)   A building shall have a maximum length of 200 feet if it is
parallel to a public street, unless the building is designed to appear to be
two or more distinct buildings that are attached to each other.
         (6)   Where parking or buildings do not currently exist, a minimum
width of 10 feet adjacent to the curbline of an arterial street shall be
planted and maintained in grass or other vegetative ground cover, except for
necessary approximately perpendicular driveway crossings. Trees and shrubs
shall also be planted in this vicinity, provided they do not obstruct safe
sight distances. Where a sidewalk is provided, such 10 feet width may be
provided in two segments, provided that the total width totals at least 10
feet. Where curbing is not provided, such width shall be measured from the
street right-of-way. Preexisting parking spaces may be rearranged, provided
they do not result in an increase in the land area covered by off-street
parking spaces in such location.
         (7)   Buildings may be developed in a condominium arrangement without
each building being on its own minimum sized lot provided the applicant proves
that the same dimensional requirements could be met as if the dwellings were in
fee-simple ownership. For example, if a 10 feet side yard is required on each
side of two buildings, then a 20 feet separation shall be provided, although a
lot line would not need to exist between the two buildings.
         (8)   Before zoning approval is granted for any new principal
building, a conceptual architectural plan shall be submitted to the Township
for review by the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors. Such plans
shall show the front elevation of the building and shall list the types of
exterior building materials of the front facade.
         (9)   Street level storefronts shall be inviting to pedestrians.
         (10)   Loading and unloading spaces for trucks shall not block major
pedestrian ways or create blind spots.
         (11)   Design Guidelines. The following advisory guidelines are
recommended to be used by the Township and applicants in the VR District:
            (a)   Parking. Parking areas should be well screened from arterial
roads by landscaping and/or a decorative masonry wall.
            (b)   Blank Walls. Blank walls without door and window openings
should be avoided along a street. Overly modernistic or bland buildings devoid
of details should be avoided when adjacent buildings have architectural
details.
            (c)   Fencing. Chain link metal fencing should be avoided in the
front yard.
            (d)   Materials. On building sides facing a street, new
construction should use building materials that are similar to appearance to
older buildings, such as brick, stone, glass, clapboard-type siding.
            (e)   Buildings of over 100 feet in length should be designed to
have the appearance of inter-connected buildings and to avoid the appearance of
monotony. This should be accomplished through variations in rooflines,
overhangs, setbacks, colors and facade materials and use of canopies, porches
and awnings.
            (f)   Buildings should have the appearance of having a pitched or
peaked roof as viewed from an arterial street or have a decorative cornice
roof.
            (g)   Retail stores should have display windows facing onto the
street.
            (h)   To the maximum extent feasible, off-street parking should be
located to the rear or side of nonresidential buildings.
            (i)   Buildings should be designed and arranged to provide a
character similar to an older village.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 606; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, § 13; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 608 HC Highway Commercial District.
   In the HC Highway Commercial Districts, the following regulations shall
apply:
      A.   Use Regulations.
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right within the HC District: (See Article 4, “Use Regulations.”)
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-8 Riding Academy/Boarding Stable.
            (g)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (h)   B-2a Group Home.
            (i)   B11 Single Family Detached Dwelling.
            (j)   Reserved.
            (k)   C-2 Commercial School.
            (l)   C-3 Day-Care Center.
            (m)   C-4 Golf Course.
            (n)   C-5 Hospital.
            (o)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (p)   C-6 Library or Museum.
            (q)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (r)   C-11 Private Organization.
            (s)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (t)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (u)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (v)   D-1 Medical Office. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   D-2 Office. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (x)   D-3 Veterinary Office or Clinic. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   D-4 Office Park/Corporate Center. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (z)   E-2 Vehicle Sales. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   E-3 Vehicle Repair, Body/Paint Services or Vehicle Accessory
Sales. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (bb)   E-4 Car Wash. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (cc)   E-5 Convenience Store, provided that gasoline sales need
conditional use approval. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (dd)   E-6 Restaurant Without Drive-through Service. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (ee)   E-8 Entertainment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ff)   E-9 Financial Institution. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (gg)   E-10 Funeral Home. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (hh)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ii)   E-13 Mini-warehouse. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (jj)   E-14 Motel or Hotel. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (kk)   E-17 Repair Shop. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ll)   E-18 Retail Trade and Retail Services of up to 10,000 square
feet of retail indoor floor area. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (mm)   E-21 Parking Lot or Garage. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (nn)   E-16 Recreational Campsites. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (oo)   F-2 Emergency Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (pp)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (qq)   H-1 Accessory Apartment for Immediate Family Member. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (rr)   H-2 One Dwelling Unit in Combination with a Principal
Business on the Same Lot. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ss)   H-3 Family Day Care. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (tt)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (uu)   H-6 Outside Storage, as accessory to an allowed principal
use. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (vv)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an accessory use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (ww)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (xx)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (yy)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (zz)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aaa)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5-2014)
            (bbb)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (ccc)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5- 2014)
              (ddd)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-
28- 2023)
         (2)   Uses by Conditional Approval. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as conditional uses within the HC District: (See Article 8,
“Conditional Uses,” and Article 4, “Use Regulations.”)
            (a)   C-15 Detention Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (b)   E-7 Restaurant with Drive-Through Service. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5-2014)
            (c)   E-12 Retail Store over 10,000 square feet. (Ord. 176, passed
1-5-2014)
            (d)   E-19 Gas Station, which shall require the submittal of a
traffic study. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (e)   E-20 Shopping Center. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (f)   E-23 Tavern. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (g)   E-25 Betting Use. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (h)   F-5 Commercial Communications Tower/Antenna. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (i)   G-7 Quarry. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (j)   B-5 Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-
2014)
            (k)   H-15 Accessory Wind-Powered Generating Facility. (Ord. 203,
passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses: (See Article 10, “Zoning Hearing Board,” and
Article 4, “Use Regulations.”)
            (a)   B-1 Boarding House.
            (b)   B-2b Halfway House.
            (c)   C-8 Nursing Home.
            (d)   C-9 Personal Care Facility.
            (e)   E-22 Mobile Home and Accessory Sales.
            (f)   E-24 Treatment Center.
            (g)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility.
            (h)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)   
         (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Performance Regulations. The following provisions shall apply within
the HC District, unless a more restrictive provision is established by another
Section of this Ordinance:
 
                                                                                          Minimum Lot
                                                                               Maximum    Area (per
                                                                               Impervious dwelling
                                                                               Surface    unit for
                                                                               Ratio      residential
                                                                                          uses)
(1)   Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park.** The regulations of the DD District in
§
605.C. shall apply instead of the regulations of the HC District.
(2)   Other allowed use                                                     (2) .60    (2) 40,000
                                                                                          sq. ft.
** Township-approved central sewage and central water services shall both be provided.
 
      C.   Area and Dimensional Regulations. The following regulations shall
apply within the HC District, unless a more restrictive provision is
established by another Section of this Ordinance:
 
                                                                                 Minimum
                                                                                 Lot Width Minimum Yards
                                                                                 at        Front/Each Side/
                                                                                 Setback   Rear (feet)
                                                                                 (feet)
(1)   Mobile (Manufactured) Home Park - The regulations of the DD District in §
605.C. shall apply instead of the regulations of the HC District.
(2)   Other allowed use                                                       (2)   1(2)   50/25*/25*
Note: *Except a minimum rear and side yard setback of 50 feet shall apply along a lot line of a principal
nonresidential use where it will abut an existing residential use or a residential district.
 
         (1)   Height. The maximum building height is 45 feet or three stories,
whichever is more restrictive.
         (2)   Vegetative Area. A minimum width of 30 feet adjacent to the
curbline of an arterial street shall be planted and maintained in grass or
other vegetative ground cover, except for necessary approximately perpendicular
driveway crossings. Trees and shrubs shall also be planted in this vicinity,
provided they do not obstruct safe sight distances. Where a sidewalk is
provided, such 30 feet width may be provided in two segments, provided that the
total width totals at least 30 feet. Where curb is not provided, such width
shall be measured from the street right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 607; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 11; Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2015, §§ 14, 15; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-
2023)
§ 609 PI Planned Industrial District.
   In the PI District, the following regulations shall apply:
      A.   Use Regulations. Only the following uses shall be allowed within the
PI District:
         (1)   Uses by Right. Only the following uses shall be permitted by
right: (See also Article 4.)
            (a)   A-1 Agriculture and Horticulture.
            (b)   A-2 Accessory Agricultural Sales.
            (c)   A-3 Forestry.
            (d)   A-4 Greenhouse.
            (e)   A-7 Nursery.
            (f)   A-9 Accessory Farm Business.
            (g)   B-2a Group Home within an existing dwelling.
            (h)   C-1 Cemetery without a crematorium (see also under special
exception uses).
            (i)   C-2 Commercial School.
            (j)   C- 3 Day-Care Center.
            (k)   C-5 Hospital.
            (l)   C-6 Library or Museum.
            (m)   C-7 Municipal Facility.
            (n)   C-10 Place of Worship.
            (o)   C-12 Recreational Facility/Community Center.
            (p)   C-13 Primary or Secondary School or College.
            (q)   C-14 Municipal Passive Recreation Park. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5-2014)
            (r)   D-1 Medical Office. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   D-2 Office. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (t)   D-3 Veterinary Office or Clinic. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (u)   D-4 Office Park/Corporate Center. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (v)   E-8 Entertainment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (w)   E-9 Financial Institution, which may include drive-through
service. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (x)   E-10 Funeral Home. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (y)   E-11 Bed and Breakfast. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (z)   E-13 Mini-Warehouse. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aa)   E-18 Retail Trade and Services up to 10,000 square feet of
retail indoor floor area. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (bb)   E-21 Parking Lot or Garage. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (cc)   E-26 Motor Vehicle Racetrack.
            (dd)   F-1 Utility Operating Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ee)   F-2 Emergency Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ff)   F-3 Passenger Terminal. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (gg)   F-4 Essential Services. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (hh)   G-2 Building Materials Sales/Equipment Storage. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (ii)   G-3 Contractor Service. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (jj)   G-4 Food Processing. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (kk)   G-6 Manufacturing, including only the following products
(see also under Conditional Uses): (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
               1)   Food and Beverage Products for humans.
               2)   Apparel and Textile Products.
               3)   Paper, Furniture and Wood Products, other than paper pulp
mill.
               4)   Assembly, Packaging or Finishing of Products Manufactured
Elsewhere.
               5)   Computers and Electronics and Electrical Equipment.
               6)   Transportation Vehicles and Equipment.
               7)   Sporting Goods, Toys, Games, Jewelry, Silverware, Musical
Instruments or Signs.
               8)   Medical and Scientific Equipment, Supplies and Instruments.
               9)   Pharmaceuticals and Medicines.
               10)   Gaskets.
            (ll)   G-8 Recycling Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (mm)   G-9 Research. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (nn)   G-12 Wholesale (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (oo)   G-13 Warehouse. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (pp)   G-14 Printing. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (qq)   G-15 Planing Mill. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (rr)   H-4 Home Based Business. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ss)   H-5 Livestock and Horses as an accessory use. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (tt)   H-7 Recreational Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (uu)   H-8 Residential Accessory Structure or Use as accessory to
an existing dwelling. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (vv)   H-9 Spa/Hot Tubs as accessory to an existing dwelling. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (ww)   H-10 Swimming Pool. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (xx)   H-11 Temporary Structures and Vehicles. (Ord. 176, passed 1-
5- 2014)
            (yy)   H-13 Customarily Accessory Use or Structure. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5- 2014)
            (zz)   H-14 Accessory Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (aaa)   H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump. (Ord. 203, passed 2-
28- 2023)
         (2)   Uses by Conditional Approval. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as a conditional use: (See also Article 8, “Conditional Uses,” and
Article 4, “Use Regulations.”)
            (a)   C-4 Golf Course.
            (b)   C-11 Private Organization/Club.
            (c)   C-15 Detention Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (d)   E-1 Adult Entertainment. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (e)   E-3 Automotive Repair or Shop. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (f)   E-6 Restaurant, without drive-through service. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (g)   E-14 Motel or Hotel. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (h)   E-17 Repair Shop. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (i)   E-26 Motor Vehicle Race Track.
            (j)   F-5 Commercial Communications Tower/Antenna. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (k)   F-6 Airport or Heliport. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (l)   F-7 Commercial Solar-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (m)   F-8 Commercial Wind-Powered Generating Facilities. (Ord. 176,
passed 1-5-2014)
            (n)   G-5 Fuel Storage and Distribution. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-
2014)
            (o)   G-6 Manufacturing, other than types of manufacturing that are
listed as by right uses. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (p)   G-7 Quarry. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (q)   G-1 Salvage Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (r)   G-10 Solid Waste Facility. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (s)   G-11 Truck Terminal. (Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2014)
            (t)   Reserved. (Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
            (u)   G-16 Large Warehouse/Fulfillment/Distribution Center. (Ord.
202, passed 2-28-2023)
         (3)   Uses by Special Exception. Only the following uses shall be
allowed as special exception uses: (See also Article 10, “Zoning Hearing
Board,” and Article 4, “Use Regulations.”)
            (a)   B-2b Halfway House.
            (b)   C-1 Cemetery with Crematorium.
            (c)   E-24 Treatment Center.
            (d)   H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems. (Ord.
203, passed 2-28-2023)
         (4)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted in accordance with Article 9.
      B.   Performance Regulations. The following requirements shall apply
within the PI District, unless a more restrictive provision is established by
another Section of this Ordinance (such as in Articles 4 or 5):
 
Use Type    Maximum Building Coverage Maximum, Impervious Minimum Lot Area
                                      Surface Ratio
Allowed Use .40                       .60                 80,000 sq. ft.*
Note:
*Except 43,560 sq. ft. for a financial institution, office, or day care
center.
 
      C.   Area and Dimensional Regulations. The following regulations shall
apply within the PI District, unless a more restrictive provision is
established by another Section of this Ordinance.
 
                                                   Minimum Lot               Minimum
                                                   Width at     Maximum      Yards
                                                   Minimum      Building     Front/
Use Type                                           Building     Height       Each
                                                   Setback      (feet)       Side/
                                                   (feet)                    Rear
                                                                             (feet)
                                                                             50/
                                                                             70**/
Allowed Use in Use Category “G-“ Other Allowed 250     50*     70**
                                                                             50/25/
                                                                             40**
*Except for wireless communications towers, which shall meet the conditions of §
404.F(5), and commercial wind-powered generating facilities, which shall meet the
conditions of §
404.F(8).
(Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015)
**Except a side yard and rear yard of 25 feet shall apply where the abutting lot
line is part of a lot within a HC or PI Zoning District.
 
         (1)   Berm. If a new principal use in use category “G-“ is constructed
with a side or rear yard abutting a residential district, then a landscaped
undulating earth berm shall be provided abutting the residential district. Such
berm shall have a minimum average height of 5 feet and a maximum 3:1 slope on
the residential side. The business side of the berm may utilize retaining
walls.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 608; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, §§ 11, 12, 14; Ord.
176, passed 1-5-2015, §§ 16, 17; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 202, passed 2-
28-2023; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
Article 7
Floodplain District
   (Floodway Protection)
   [See
Chapter 151]
Article 8
Conditional Uses
§ 801 General.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors may allow or deny conditional uses pursuant to
public notice, in accordance with the requirements of the Municipalities
Planning Code and after receiving recommendation from the Township Planning
Commission pursuant to the standards set forth in this Ordinance. The Township
staff shall forward the application to the Township Planning Commission prior
to the hearing for its recommendation. In allowing a conditional use, the Board
of Supervisors may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, in
addition to those expressed in this Ordinance, as it may deem necessary to
implement the purposes of this Ordinance.
   2.   Applicants for conditional uses shall submit a conditional use permit
application.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 800)
§ 802 Conditional Use Standards.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors shall determine that access to the site is
safe and may refuse to permit a conditional use where insufficient distance
between a curb cut and a street intersection is provided, or require combining
of access with an adjoining land use. The Board of Supervisors may require off-
site traffic improvements where a hazardous condition would otherwise be
created, if authorized by State law.
   2.   The Board shall require that the proposed use be developed in a manner
that is compatible with the surrounding existing uses. Conditions controlling
planting of shade trees, evergreen buffers, and planted berms may be imposed to
create a buffer beyond the normal requirements of this Ordinance.
   3.   The Board shall impose conditions on lighting and signs to insure that
glare does not disrupt residential areas, distract motorists, or intrude in the
background near traffic lights.
   4.   The application shall not be approved unless the Board shall make
favorable findings on all of the following:
      A.   The proposal is appropriate to the tract in question and will not
disrupt or destroy the character of stable residential neighborhoods.
      B.   The proposal provides for adequate access to public roads, without
creating hazardous conditions at intersections or areas of poor road alignment,
and without creating undue congestion. Where a Traffic Impact Analysis is
required by the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, it shall be
submitted with the conditional use application.
      C.   The applicant has provided credible evidence that the proposal
conforms to all applicable requirements of this Ordinance.
      D.   The proposed water supply and sewage systems will be adequate and
meet applicable requirements. Where applicable, a certificate of adequacy of
sewage and water facilities shall be provided. Where a utility or stormwater
matter will be required to be addressed under the Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, Stormwater Ordinance or another Township ordinance, the
Board of Supervisors may defer detailed consideration of such matters and
instead place a condition on the conditional use approval to require evidence
of compliance with such ordinances to be provided when such matters will be
before the Township.
      E.   The effects of the proposed change will result in the most
appropriate use of land, the conservation of the value of buildings, safety
from fire, panic and other dangers; adequacy of light and air, the prevention
of overcrowding of land and congestion of population, and the adequacy of
public and community services.
      F.   The proposed use will be suitable for the site, considering the
disturbance of steep slopes, mature woodland, wetlands, floodplains, lake,
pond, watercourse or wetland buffers, springs, seeps, vernal pools, and other
important natural features, and considering measures that the applicant
proposes to conserve such features as a condition of approval.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      G.   The proposed use shall not result in a change in water quality
designation or special protection status of any water body in the Township.
   (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 801; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 45)
§ 803 Environmental Impact Assessment for Solid Waste Facilities.
   No conditional use permit requesting permission to use a property for the
establishment of a solid waste facility shall be approved without the
preparation and filing of an Environmental Impact Assessment in accordance with
the guidelines below:
      A.   The impact on the environment generated by solid waste facilities
requires a comprehensive analysis of the variety of problems that may result
and the actions that can be taken to minimize these problems. In order to
effectively evaluate the environmental consequences or effects of such projects
proposed in the Township, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report shall
be submitted with applications for conditional use approval requesting
establishment of a solid waste facility and an updated environmental impact
assessment report shall be submitted with any application for preliminary and/
or final plan approval for land development or subdivision requesting authority
to establish a solid waste facility.
   In order to encourage the preparation of a thorough EIA report, the
applicant may use the components of the EIA report to satisfy the reporting
requirements of the Township subdivision and land development ordinance,
provided however, that a list of the sections of the subdivision and land
development ordinance that are proposed to be satisfied by the EIA report shall
be submitted with the EIA report.
      B.   Definitions. For the purpose of an EIA the following definitions
shall apply:
         Adverse environmental impacts–an impact which contributes to a harmful
or degraded condition and/or produces an environmental harm or degradation.
Adverse environmental impacts may include, but are not limited to: a negative
impact on surrounding land uses, negative impacts which are contrary to the
Comprehensive Plan for the Township and the intent of this Ordinance, negative
impacts which may create a threat to the public health, safety and general
welfare, and negative impacts on physical and biological resources.
         Alternatives–choices between or among two or more plans, layouts,
approaches, solutions or results.
         Beneficial effects–results contributing to an improvement in condition
and/or producing a favorable result such as making a use more compatible with
the intent of this Ordinance and the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and
promoting the public health, safety and general welfare.
         Biological resources–characteristics of the natural environment
manifest in its flora and fauna. The disposition of these characteristics is
typically expressed in vegetation and/or wildlife units such as: field and
meadow, tree, woodland or forest stands and related understory and ground cover
growth, water quality, and aquatic and terrestrial wildlife and/or their
habitats.
         Community facilities–the services which provide for various community
health, education, safety, leisure, and like needs and the locations at which
these services are provided. Typical community facilities include: schools,
parks and recreation areas, libraries, hospitals and other health-care
facilities, fire protection, police, ambulance and rescue services, and postal
services.
         Cultural environment–a representation of man’s influence on land and/
or water through the use, organization, adornment and maintenance of property
and structures.
         Development–any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction or alteration to buildings or
other structures, the placement of mobile homes, streets or other paving,
utilities, filling, grading, regrading, excavation, mining, dredging or
drilling operations, provided, however, the following shall not be considered
as development: routine maintenance; incidental grading related to gardening,
cultivation and the like and minor structure alterations to a building.
         Economic and fiscal characteristics–characteristics related to the
expenditure and revenues in conjunction with the management of income of a
household, private business, community, association and/or government.
         Environment–the conditions, resources and/or characteristics which
exist within and surround the area to be affected by a proposed project
including, but not limited to: natural elements such as land, water, air,
minerals, natural flora and natural fauna; and manmade components such as
objects of historic or aesthetic significance, infrastructure, and man-related
attributes of a social and economic nature.
         Environmental Impact Assessment Report–an assessment which objectively
describes, analyzes, and documents both the beneficial and adverse
environmental and cultural effects of a proposed project and the measures to be
undertaken to mitigate adverse effects in accordance with the provisions set
forth in this Ordinance and the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
         Historic resources–sites and structures which are valued due to their
significance as examples and/or locations of events, architecture, skills, and/
or arts of the past.
         Impact–the power of an event or condition to produce changes in other
conditions. In the context of impact exerted on the environment, changes which
affect existing conditions and/or quality are of greatest concern.
         Infrastructure–the basic installations and facilities on which the
continuance and growth of a community depend such as roads, schools, electrical
transmission facilities, transportation and communication systems, and sewer
and water systems.
         Long-term effects–results which are manifest for, or extending over a
period of greater than 2 years.
         Mitigation–the act of precluding a potentially adverse effect and/or
making a potentially adverse effect less severe through measures which will
improve a condition and/or lessen the impact.
         Natural environment–a composition of land, water, and/or air
represented by its inherent physical, water and biological resources.
         Physical resources–characteristics of the natural environment manifest
in its land forms, soils, geological structure of surface and/or subsurface
rock, minerals, natural bodies of water and/or man-made impoundments,
watercourses, groundwater and the like. The disposition of these
characteristics is typically expressed in physiographic, topographic and/or
hydrologic units such as rock formations, slope elevations, soil types,
watersheds, surface water types, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers or aquifer
recharge areas and the like.
         Primary effects–results of a direct nature which have a principal
influence on a particular condition.
         Project–a subdivision, land development, or other development
involving the construction or alteration of buildings or other structures, or
the grading of land to accommodate use of property as a solid waste facility.
         Secondary effects–results of an indirect nature which have an
influence on a particular condition or state derived from a primary effect.
         Short-term effects–results which are manifest for, or extending over a
period of 2 years or less.
         Visual resources–characteristics of the natural and/or cultural
environment which are visible. The visual resources of a particular area are
typically expressed in terms of their visibility, character, and/or
attractiveness relative to their amenity value and/or quality.
      C.   An updated EIA report shall accompany and form a part of a final
land development or subdivision plan as required herein.
      D.   Ten copies of the EIA report shall be submitted with the Conditional
Use Permit Application, and applications for preliminary or final plan
approval. Within the EIA report, specific emphasis shall be directed toward the
proposed project’s effects on and relationship to applicable site, neighborhood
(including areas in adjacent municipalities where applicable) and Township-wide
resources, conditions, or characteristics. The EIA report shall include text,
tables, maps and analyses for the purpose of describing the project site,
proposed use(s), environmental characteristics and the environmental effects of
the proposal as follows:
         (1)   Overview. Indicate the purpose and scope of the proposed
project. Enumerate the benefits to the public which will result from the
proposed project and describe the suitability of the site for the intended use.
A description of the proposed project shall be presented to indicate the extent
to which the site must be altered, the kinds of facilities to be constructed,
how they are to be constructed and the uses intended. The resident population,
working population, and visitor population shall be projected. The basis of the
projections shall be clearly stated in the report.
         (2)   Compatibility. The compatibility or incompatibility of the
proposed project shall be described in relation to the following:
            (a)   Township Comprehensive Plan, especially the land use and open
space elements.
            (b)   Comprehensive Plan of adjacent municipalities whenever a
project is located along or within 2,000 feet of the municipal boundaries.
            (c)   Bucks County Comprehensive Plan.
         (3)   Location. An identification of the site location and area
through the use of a location map drawn at a scale of not more than 2,000 feet
to the inch. The location map shall depict all street, adjoining properties,
zoning district boundaries and municipal boundaries within 2,500 feet of any
part of the tract. In the case of development of only a portion of the entire
tract, the location map shall also show the relationship of the section to the
entire tract.
         (4)   Photographs. An identification of the character and appearance
of the site through the presentation of black and white photographs or copies
thereof. Such photographs shall provide a representation of what the site looks
like from ground level. Photographs should be properly identified or captioned
and shall be keyed to a map of the site.
         (5)   Description of the Project. An identification of the nature of
the proposal through the presentation of the following:
            (a)   A site development plan including notes pertaining to the
type of solid waste proposed to be handled, processed, stored, or disposed of
at the facility including the quantities to be handled on an average daily,
monthly and yearly basis.
            (b)   A statement indicating the existing and proposed ownership of
the tract.
            (c)   A statement indicating the proposed staging or phasing of the
project and a map depicting the boundaries of each stage or phase of the
project. Such boundaries shall be superimposed on a version of the site
development plan.
         (6)   Physical Resources Inventory. An identification of physical
resources associated with the natural environment of the tract including such
features as geology, topography, soils, hydrology and the like. The
identification of physical resources shall include a narrative description of
the qualitative aspects of each of the resources mentioned above. In addition,
these resources shall be mapped at a scale of not smaller than 100 feet to the
inch as specified below and may be either incorporated into the EIA report or
submitted as attachments to the report.
            (a)   A map depicting the geological characteristics of the tract.
Such map shall define the location and boundaries of the rock formations at or
influencing the tract and features such as faults and/or fractures.
            (b)   A map depicting the topographical characteristics of the
tract. Such map shall contain contours with at least 2-foot intervals and shall
depict slopes ranging from zero to 15 percent, 15 to 25 percent, and greater
than 25 percent.
            (c)   A map depicting the soil characteristics of the tract. Such
map shall depict all soil types and shall include a table identifying soil
characteristics pertinent to the proposed project such as prime agricultural
soils, depth to bedrock, depth of water table, flood hazard potential, and
limitations for septic tank filter fields. List and describe each soil type
located on the site. If applicable, provide percolation data. Where the
proposed area of land disturbance will involve soils with moderate or severe
limitations (as per the Soil Survey of Bucks and Philadelphia Counties or later
more detailed soil mapping) relative to the type of project proposed, a
complete mapping of all soil types on the site shall be required indicating
where those moderate and severe limitations exist.
            (d)   A map depicting the hydrological characteristics of the
tract. Such map shall depict: surface water resources, their drainage
characteristics, watershed and floodplains, and ground water resources. Surface
water resources include features such as creeks, runs and other streams, ponds,
lakes, and other natural bodies of water, springs, wetlands, and any manmade
impoundments. Groundwater resources include features such as aquifers and
aquifer recharge areas.
         (7)   Biological Resources Inventory. An identification of biological
resources associated with the natural environment of the tract including such
features as vegetation and wildlife. The identification of biological resources
shall include a narrative description of each of the resources mentioned above.
In addition, these resources shall be mapped at a scale of not smaller than 100
feet to the inch as specified below and may be either incorporated into the EIA
report or submitted as attachments to the report.
            (a)   A map depicting the vegetation characteristics of the tract.
Such map shall define the locations and boundaries of the woodland and forest
areas of the tract and shall note the types of vegetation associations which
exist in terms of their species and sizes. In addition, all trees 12 inches in
caliper or greater shall be accurately located and identified on the map
whether they are free-standing trees or tree masses.
            (b)   A map depicting characteristics associated with wildlife
habitats. Such map may draw upon vegetation, hydrology, and soil maps in order
to express habitat characteristics associated with terrestrial and aquatic
wildlife on the tract and the relationship of the overall habitat(s).
            (c)   This analysis shall also investigate impacts on groundwater
and surface water quality.
         (8)   Land Use Inventory. An identification of the land use conditions
and characteristics associated with the tract such as: current and past use,
land cover, and encumbrances and the relationship of these to adjacent tracts.
The identification of land use conditions and characteristics shall include a
narrative description of the above. In addition, the following maps drawn at a
scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch, shall be incorporated into the EIA
report or submitted as attachments to it.
            (a)   A map depicting the land cover characteristics of the tract.
Such map shall define existing features including paved or other impervious
surfaces, woodland and forest areas, cultivated areas, pasture, old fields,
lawns and landscaped areas, and the like.
            (b)   A map depicting any encumbrances to the tract. Such map shall
define easements and other areas where certain use privileges exist.
            (c)   A map depicting the land uses within 500 feet of the proposed
tract. Such map may be at the same scale as the location map.
         (9)   Surface Water Inventory. Describe existing watercourses and
water bodies that are partially or totally on the site and their relationship
to the area of land disturbance. Calculate existing surface runoff from the
site and the associated watershed, including the potential development of the
remainder of the watershed. When the natural drainage pattern will be
significantly altered, an analysis shall be conducted which will investigate
flow, depth, capacity, and water quality of the receiving waters. Any
floodplain areas shall be accurately mapped. Where doubt exists regarding the
exact border of a 100-year floodplain, the Township may require an applicant to
provide a more detailed study. Existing drainage structures shall be mapped and
the capacity of the drainage network shall be determined. Additionally, wetland
areas as defined by State and Federal regulations, whichever are more
inclusive, shall be delineated.
         (10)   Subsurface Water Inventory. Describe the subsurface water
conditions on the site both in terms of depth to groundwater and water supply
capabilities of the site. Where existing conditions warrant, provide detailed
information regarding existing wells within 1,000 feet of the site relative to
depth, capacity and water quality. Discuss the water supply capabilities of the
adjacent areas and the recharge capabilities of the site.
         (11)   Existing Features Inventory. Describe any existing features on
the site that are not considered to be part of the natural environment. This
may include, but not necessarily be limited to, roads, housing units, accessory
structures, utility lines, etc.
         (12)   Historic Resources Inventory. An identification of the man-made
resources associated with or within 500 feet of the tract which are older than
50 years. Areas and structures included on any of the following lists shall be
identified: the National Register of Historic Places, the Pennsylvania
Inventory of Historic Places, the Historic American Building Survey, the Bucks
County Conservancy survey of historic buildings and the Township historic
resources list. The identification of historic resources shall include a
narrative description of the above. In addition, a map drawn at a scale of not
smaller than 100 feet to the inch depicting historic resources shall be
incorporated into the EIA report or submitted as an attachment to the report.
         (13)   Visual Resources Inventory. An identification of the visual
resources associated with the tract such as areas which have a particular
amenity value and areas which offer interest in viewing the tract. The
identification of visual resources shall include a narrative description of the
above. In addition, a map drawn at a scale of not smaller than 100 feet to the
inch depicting visual resources shall be incorporated into the EIA report or
submitted as an attachment to the report.
         (14)   Community Need Inventory. An identification of the community
facility needs associated with the users of the proposed project. The community
facility needs assessment shall indicate in narrative form the type of services
which will be in demand. Where applicable, community facilities (such as
schools, parks and recreation areas, libraries, hospitals, and other health
care facilities, fire protection, police protection, ambulance, and rescue
service and postal service) shall be discussed in terms of the ability of the
existing facilities and services to accommodate the demands of future users
and/or residents of the lots and/or tract and the need for additional or
expanded community facilities.
         (15)   Utility Needs Inventory. An identification of the utility needs
associated with the users of the proposed project. The utility needs assessment
shall indicate in narrative form the type of installations which will be in
demand. Utilities shall be discussed in terms of the ability of existing
utility installations to accommodate the demands of the future users; the needs
for additional or expanded utility installations; the ability to achieve an
adequate potable quantity of water whenever individual wells are proposed; the
ability to achieve an adequate system for on-site sewage disposal whenever such
a system is proposed; and, the ability to achieve an adequate system for storm
drainage and stormwater management. Certificates from the utilities confirming
that adequate capacity exists to serve the proposed development shall be
included.
         (16)   Transportation System Inventory. An identification of the
relationship of the transportation needs of the proposed project to the
existing street/road network. A discussion of this relationship shall be in
narrative and graphic form and shall indicate factors such as methods to be
used for traffic control within the tract and at points of ingress to and
egress from it; and, expected traffic volumes generated from the project
including their relationship to existing traffic volumes on existing streets
for both peak hour and non-peak hour traffic conditions. In addition, there
shall be a discussion of the physical condition of existing streets which will
service the proposed project and what improvements are proposed to remedy any
physical deficiencies.
         (17)   Fiscal Impact. An identification of the economic and fiscal
characteristics related to the proposed project. The characteristics which
shall be presented in narrative form shall include a profile of the Township,
county and school district revenues which the proposed use may generate and the
Township, county and school district costs it will create. Such information
shall be related to initial and completed project conditions.
         (18)   Existing Conditions. An identification of characteristics and
conditions associated with existing, construction related, and future air and
water quality and noise levels, vibration, toxic materials, electrical
interference, odor, glare and heat, fire and explosion, smoke, dust, fumes,
vapors and gases and/or radioactive materials.
         (19)   Licenses and Permits. An identification of all licenses,
permits, or other approvals required by law for the development and the status
of each.
         (20)   Environmental Regulations. Evidence shall be provided regarding
how the application will comply with Township floodplain regulations and other
natural resource and environmental regulations of the Township.
         (21)   Impacts Inventory. The implications of the proposed project in
terms of the type of beneficial or adverse effects which may result from it;
and, the duration of these effects in terms of their short-term or long-term
nature. To indicate such effects, there shall be a discussion of the
implications of the proposed project to the resources, conditions and
characteristics described in subparagraphs (5) through (20) above. In addition
to a narrative presentation of implications, the applicant shall display where
the project adversely affects the tract’s resources, conditions or
characteristics through the use of a map drawn at a scale of not smaller than
100 feet to the inch, wherein the area adversely affected from proposed
development are highlighted. Such map may be either incorporated into the EIA
report or submitted as an attachment to the report. Further, the applicant must
demonstrate and specify in the EIA report how and where the findings in the EIA
report and its attachments are reflected in the project.
         (22)   Alternative Analysis. Alternatives within the project which
would preclude, reduce or lessen potential adverse impact or produce beneficial
effects. To indicate such alternatives the applicant shall submit exhibits or
diagrams which will depict the type or alternatives described in narrative
forms. The applicant shall comment on how alternatives such as: revised
location, redesign, layout or siting of buildings, roads, and other structures
and the reduction in the size of the proposed structures or number of
structures, would affect the impacts or effects of the project.
         (23)   Adverse Impacts. The report shall describe probable adverse
impacts which cannot be precluded, including impacts upon:
            (a)   Water quality and quantity.
            (b)   Air quality.
            (c)   Noise.
            (d)   Undesirable land use patterns.
            (e)   Damage or destruction of significant plant or wildlife
systems.
            (f)   Aesthetic values.
            (g)   Destruction of natural resources, such as productive
agricultural soils.
            (h)   Displacement of people and business.
            (i)   Displacement of viable farms.
            (j)   Employment and property tax.
            (k)   Destruction of man-made resources.
            (l)   Disruption of desirable community and regional growth.
            (m)   Health, safety and well being of the public.
   In indicating such effects a discussion shall be presented regarding whether
they will have primary or secondary implications, that is, whether the adverse
effects will have direct or indirect influence on a particular resources,
condition, or characteristic.
         (24)   Mitigation Measures. Measures to mitigate adverse effects. To
indicate such measures, the applicant shall submit exhibits or diagrams which
will depict the type of remedial, protective and mitigative measures described
in narrative form. These measures shall include those required through existing
procedures and standards and those unique to a specific project, as follows:
            (a)   Mitigation measures which pertain to existing procedures and
standards are those related to current requirements of the State, county, and/
or Township for remedial or protective actions such as: sedimentation and
erosion control, stormwater runoff control, water quality control and air
quality control.
            (b)   Mitigation measures related to impacts which may be unique to
a specific project are those related to efforts such as: re-vegetation.
screening, fencing, emission control, traffic control, noise control,
relocation of people and/or businesses and land acquisition.
         (25)   Irreversible Impacts. Any irreversible environmental changes
which would occur due to the proposed project, should it be implemented. To
indicate such changes, the use of nonrenewable resources during the initial and
continued phases of the project shall be discussed. Further, the loss of
environmental resources shall be indicated through a presentation of the
quantity of loss and related qualitative effects.
         (26)   In making its evaluation, the Zoning Officer, Board of
Supervisors and/or the Planning Commission may request any additional
information it deems necessary to adequately assess potential environmental
impacts. Whenever any information required in this Section is assumed not
directly applicable to the proposed project, the applicant shall indicate such
assumed inapplicability in the narrative of the EIA report, and state why such
information is considered to be inapplicable in the case of the particular
project in question.
         (27)   The EIA report shall be prepared by a licensed professional or
other professional with expertise in planning, engineering, or environmental
studies. All persons who participate in preparing the report shall be
identified and their qualifications stated. All sources of information shall be
identified when presented and a bibliography shall be attached to the report.
All work in the report shall be in conformity with recognized engineering,
architectural, and planning practices and principles. The Township may retain
its own expert to evaluate the EIA report. The cost of the expert shall be the
cost of the review of the project which shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 802)
§ 804 Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Solid Waste Facilities.
   1.   Application Fee. All applications for conditional use approval for any
solid waste facility shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee and such
escrow as may be required pursuant to a fee resolution duly adopted by the
Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Host Municipality Benefit Fee. There shall be a host municipality
benefit fee charged in accordance with the provisions of Act 101, § 1301, to be
set annually by the Board of Supervisors, to be paid quarterly by the 20th of
the month, with a 1 percent discount for early payments and interest at the
prime bank rate plus 2 percent plus a penalty of 5 percent per month for late
payments up to a penalty of 25 percent for late payment.
   3.   Indication of Acceptability. All applications for conditional use
approval for any solid waste facility shall be accompanied by plans, reports
and other documents as herein described to indicate that the proposed use will
be acceptable to the Township as follows:
      A.   Consistent with the Township Comprehensive Plan.
      B.   Conform to all requirements of the Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance and all other ordinances, codes, permit conditions and
regulations.
      C.   Will not adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the Township and of surrounding municipalities.
      D.   Promotes the harmonious and orderly development of the zoning
district involved.
      E.   Compatible with the character and type of development existing in
the area which surrounds the site in terms of size, scale, height and bulk of
the proposed uses, and the size, shape and placement of the buildings and other
structures.
      F.   Will not detract from or cause harm to neighboring properties.
      G.   Compatible with the uses permitted in the surrounding area in terms
of the density and/or intensity of land use.
      H.   Reflects effective site planning and design in terms of energy
efficiency and environmental protection.
      I.   Reflects sound engineering and land development design and
construction principles, practices and techniques.
      J.   Consistent with the logical, efficient and cost-effective extension
of public services and utilities and will not adversely affect the public
services and utilities of surrounding properties and of the Township as a
whole, in terms of public water supply, waste water treatment, police, fire
protection and hospital and health services.
      K.   Includes proposals for the effective disposal of residues and
unprocessable solid waste.
      L.   Provides safe and efficient access to roads and will not create
traffic congestion, hazardous traffic conditions or excess traffic volumes.
      M.   Limits the number of access points along major public streets and
generally provides development of the frontage of buildings on access roads
which are parallel or perpendicular to major public streets.
      N.   Provides improvements needed to guarantee compatibility with
adjoining roads and properties.
      O.   Provides continuity of existing circulation systems including roads,
sidewalks, trails, and other walkways.
      P.   Provides adequate off-street parking and loading areas which will be
minimally visible and audible from adjoining public streets and neighboring
properties.
      Q.   Utilizes effective stormwater management techniques and soil erosion
and sedimentation control techniques which are in character with and
complimentary to the proposed site grading and landscaping.
      R.   Preserves, to the maximum extent possible, woodlands and other trees
existing on the site.
      S.   Will not be disruptive to existing topography, surface water
resources and groundwater resources.
      T.   Includes landscaping, in addition to that around the buildings and
structures, in areas which are highly visible to the public such as entrances,
along roads, trails and walkways, where the use of trees, shrubs, flowers and
ground cover would be both functional and decorative.
      U.   Provides that all buildings shall be permanent and the buildings and
grounds taxable if privately owned.
      V.   Will not result in appreciable harmful effects to the environment.
      W.   Has been designed and conceived with a view toward the protection of
resources.
      X.   Will not, individually or collectively, place a disproportionate or
excessive demand upon the total resources available for such proposal and for
any future proposals.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 803)
§ 805 Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Commercial Wind-Powered Generating Facilities.
   An impact analysis shall be submitted that includes the following:
      A.   proposed design capacity of the facility.
      B.   Physical and operating characteristics.
      C.   Operating schedule.
      D.   How the energy produced is to be used.
      E.   Transmission contracts.
      F.   Alternatives.
      G.   Phasing opportunities.
      H.   Economic and environmental impacts (during both construction and
operational phases).
      I.   Restrictions to public access.
      J.   Plans for on-site and off-site transmission lines and substations.
      K.   Details of all approvals needed from other local, State and Federal
regulatory agencies.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 173, passed 1-5-2015, § 09)
§ 806 Additional Requirements for Approval of Applications for Conditional Uses
for Commercial Solar-Powered Generating Facilities.
   An impact analysis shall be submitted that includes the following:
      A.   Proposed design capacity of the facility.
      B.   Physical and operating characteristics of the facility.
      C.   Proposed operating schedule.
      D.   Proposal of how the energy produced is to be used.
      E.   Transmission contracts.
      F.   Alternatives.
      G.   Phasing opportunities.
      H.   Economic and environmental impacts (during both construction and
operational phases).
      I.   Restrictions to public access.
      J.   Analysis of reflections to be generated (which cannot be directed at
occupied structures, recreation areas, or roads).
      K.   Plans for on-site and off-site transmission lines and substations.
      L.   Details of all approvals from other local, State and Federal
regulatory agencies.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 173, passed 1/5/2015, § 10)
Article 9
Signs
§ 901 Purposes.
   This Article establishes regulations for all signs erected within
Springfield Township to ensure that they are appropriate for their respective
uses, are in keeping with the appearance of the affected property and
surrounding environment, and are protective of the public health, safety, and
general welfare. Specifically, the regulations shall:
      A.   Provide uniform standards for all signs within the Township and
specific standards for signs in each zoning district;
      B.   Regulate the location, size, appearance, construction, erection,
alteration, use and maintenance of signs;
      C.   Promote the use of well-crafted signs in harmony with the
architectural and rural residential character of the Township, protect
viewscapes in the Scenic Overlay District, and respect historic structures
identified in the Historic Resources Overlay District;
      D.   Provide adequate identification and direction for motorists and
pedestrians, to ensure traffic safety, while minimizing clutter, blight,
unsightliness, confusion, conflicts, and hazards from large, multiple, or
poorly located signs;
      E.   In accordance with the findings contained in the attached Appendix:
“Findings of Board of Supervisors of Springfield Township Concerning Electronic
Message Centers,” to promote public safety by regulation of signs that may
distract vehicular operators;
      F.   Establish a process for the review and approval of sign permit
applications.
§ 902 Permit Required.
   Except for exempt signs under §
906 hereof, a zoning permit must be obtained prior to the installation, moving,
enlarging, changing or extension of any sign regulated hereunder. The
procedures contained in §
1202, §
1203 and §
1204 shall be followed.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 900.1; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 47)
§ 903 Enforcement.
   The provisions of the sign regulations provided herein shall be enforced as
provided in §
1307 hereof.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 900.2; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, § 47)
§ 904 Definitions.
   A.   Abandoned Sign: A sign which has not identified or advertised a current
business, service, owner, product, or activity for a period of at least 180
days, in the case of off-lot signs, or at least 360 days in the case of on-lot
signs.
   B.   Awning Sign: Any sign painted on, or applied to, an awning.
   C.   Balloon Sign: A lighter-than-air, gas-filled balloon, tethered in a
fixed location, which contains an advertisement message on its surface or
attached to the balloon in any manner.
   D.   Banner: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar non-rigid
material attached to any structure, staff, pole, rope, wire, or framing which
is anchored on two or more edges or at all four corners. Banners are temporary
in nature and do not include flags.
   E.   Beacon Lighting: Any source of electric light, whether portable or
fixed, the primary purpose of which is to cast a concentrated beam of light
generally skyward as a means of attracting attention to its location rather
than to illuminate any particular sign, structure, or other object.
   F.   Changeable Message Sign: A sign (such as a tri-vision sign or an
electronic alphanumeric display) that automatically changes the message
periodically.
   G.   Clear Sight Triangle: The triangle defined by the safe sight distance
at any intersection of streets, alleys, or driveways as defined by Pennsylvania
Code Title 67, Chapter 441, and PennDOT Design Manual, Part 2, Publication 13.
   H.   Directional Sign: On-lot signs designed to provide direction to
pedestrian and vehicular traffic into and out of, or within a site.
   I.   Electronic Alphanumeric Display: A type of illuminated, changeable copy
sign that consists of electronically changing alphanumeric text; often used for
gas price display signs and athletic scoreboards.
   J.   Electronic Message Center Sign: A sign, or portion thereof, that
displays animated images, moving video images, graphics, or scrolling messages,
electronic images, static images, static graphics or static pictures, with or
without textual information, and is capable of change or alteration by
electronic means on a fixed display screen composed of a series of lights
including light-emitting diodes (LEDs), OLEDs, LCDs, DLPs, plasma, fiber
optics, light bulbs or other illumination devices within the area where the
message is displayed. EMCs include computer programmable, microprocessor
controlled electronic or digital displays. EMCs include signs that use
technology not listed in this definition and shall include similar technology
which may be developed in the future, or the use of which may become widespread
in the future.
   K.   Festoon Lighting: A type of illumination comprised of either: (a) a
group of light bulbs hung or strung overhead or on a building or other
structure, or (b) light bulbs not shaded or hooded or otherwise screened to
prevent direct rays of light from shining on adjacent properties or rights-of-
way.
   L.   Freestanding Sign: A sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground; and that is independent and detached
from any building or other structure.
   M.   Illumination: A source of any artificial or reflected light, either
directly from a source of light incorporated in, or indirectly from an
artificial source.
   N.   Illumination, External: Artificial light, located away from the sign,
which lights the sign, the source of which may or may not be visible to persons
viewing the sign from any street, sidewalk, or adjacent property.
   O.   Illumination, Internal: A light source that is concealed or contained
within the sign and becomes visible in darkness through a translucent surface.
Electronic message center signs, electronic alphanumeric displays, and signs
incorporating neon lighting shall not be considered internal illumination for
the purposes of this ordinance.
   P.   Illuminated Sign: A sign with electrical equipment installed for
illumination, either internally illuminated through its sign face by a light
source contained inside the sign or externally illuminated by a light source
aimed at its surface.
   Q.   Incidental Sign: A sign that displays general site information,
instructions, directives, or restrictions that are primarily oriented to
pedestrians and motor vehicle operators who have entered a property from a
public street. These signs shall not contain any commercial advertising.
   R.   Marquee: A permanent structure, other than a roof or canopy, attached
to, supported by, and projecting from a building and providing protection from
the elements.
   S.   Marquee Sign: Any sign attached to a marquee for the purpose of
identifying a use or product. If attached to a theater, performing arts center,
cinema, or other similar use, it may also advertise films or productions.
   T.   Message Sequencing: The spreading of one message across more than one
sign structure.
   U.   Mural (or mural sign): A large picture/image (including but not limited
to painted art) which is painted, constructed, or affixed directly onto a
vertical building wall, which may or may not contain text, logos, and/or
symbols.
   V.   Non-Commercial Districts: The Watershed (WS), Agricultural (AD),
Resource Protection (RP), Rural Residential (RR), Village Residential (VR), or
Development (DD) zoning districts constitute non-commercial districts.
   W.   Off-Lot Advertising Sign: An off-lot advertising sign is a sign that
directs attention regarding a person or commercial or non-commercial activity,
conducted on a different lot or location.
   X.   On-Lot Sign: An on-lot sign is a sign that directs attention to a
person or commercial or non- commercial activity, conducted on the same lot
with the sign.
   Y.   Pennant: A triangular or irregular piece of fabric or other material,
commonly attached in strings or strands, or supported on small poles intended
to flap in the wind.
   Z.   Portable Sign: A sign designed to be transported or moved that is not
permanently attached to the ground, a building or other structure. Includes
Sandwich Board and Vehicular Signs.
   AA.   Projecting Sign: A building-mounted, double-sided sign with the two
faces generally perpendicular to the building wall, not to include signs
located on a canopy, awning, or marquee.
   BB.   Roof Sign: A building-mounted sign erected upon, against, or over the
roof of a building.
   CC.   Sandwich Board Sign: A type of freestanding, portable, temporary sign
consisting of two faces connected and hinged at the top and whose message is
targeted to pedestrians (also known as an A-frame sign).
   DD.   Sign: Any device, structure, fixture, painting, emblem, or visual that
uses words, graphics, colors, illumination, symbols, numbers, or letters for
the purpose of communicating a message. Sign includes the sign faces as well as
any sign supporting structure.
   EE.   Sign Area: The total dimensions of a sign surface used to display
information, messages, advertising, logos, or symbols. See §
905.C. for standards for measuring sign area.
   FF.   Temporary Sign: A type of non-permanent, sign that is located on
private property that can be displayed for no more than 90 days in a 6-month
period.
   GG.   Tri-Vision Sign: An outdoor unit with a slatted face that allows three
different copy messages to revolve at intermittent intervals.
   HH.   Vehicular Sign: A sign affixed to a vehicle in such a manner that the
sign is used primarily as a stationary advertisement for the business on which
the vehicle sits or is otherwise not incidental to the vehicle’s primary
purpose.
   II.   Wall Sign: A building-mounted sign which is either attached to,
displayed on, or painted on an exterior wall in a manner parallel with the wall
surface.
   JJ.   Window Sign: A sign applied to a window pane (e.g., giving store hours
or the name or names of credit or charge institutions), when the total area of
any such sign or all signs together does not exceed two (2) square feet.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 905 General Regulations Applicable to All Districts.
   A.   Sign Location.
      1.   No sign shall be placed in such a position as to endanger
pedestrians, bicyclists, or traffic on a street by obscuring the view or by
interfering with or imitating official street signs or signals by virtue of
position, color, or reflective surface.
      2.   No sign may occupy a clear sight triangle.
      3.   Signs and their supporting structures shall maintain clearance and
noninterference with all surface and underground utility and communications
lines or equipment.
      4.   No sign or other advertising device shall be located within any
street right-of-way line except for official traffic signs and signals.
      5.   Except as otherwise permitted herein, [see Section
908, which is also incorporated into Section
909], only one sign of a type for which a permit is required shall be erected
on any one lot except that a lot fronting on more than one street may have one
permitted sign on each street frontage.
   B.   Sign Materials & Construction.
      1.   Every sign that requires a permit shall be constructed of durable
materials, using non- corrosive fastenings; shall be structurally safe and
erected or installed in strict accordance with the PA Uniform Construction
Code; and shall be maintained in safe condition and good repair at all times so
that all sign information is clearly legible.
   C.   Sign Area.
      1.   The area of a sign shall be construed to include all lettering,
wording, and accompanying designs and symbols together with the background,
whether open or enclosed, on which they are displayed, but not including any
supporting framework and bracing which are incidental to the display itself.
      2.   For a sign painted upon or applied to a building, the area shall be
considered to include all lettering, wording, accompanying designs, or symbols
together with any backing associated with the sign.
      3.   Where the sign consists of individual letters or symbols attached to
or painted on a surface, building, wall, or window, the area shall be
considered to be that of the smallest rectangle or other geometric shape that
encompasses all the letters and symbols and spaces between each letter or
symbol.
      4.   In computing the size of a double-faced sign where the sides are
parallel to each other, only one side shall be considered when determining the
sign area, provided both faces are identical (or mirror images of each other).
If the angle between the two sides is greater than 45 degrees, or if they are
not identical or mirror images, all sides of such signs shall be considered in
calculating the sign area. Where the faces are not equal in size, the larger
sign face shall be used as the basis for calculating sign area.
      5.   If elements of a sign are movable or flexible, such as a flag or
banner, the measurement is taken when the elements are fully extended and
perpendicular to the line-of-sight.
      6.   The permitted maximum area for all signs is determined by whether
they are located on-lot or off-lot, the sign type, and the zoning district.
   D.   Sign Height.
      1.   Sign height shall be measured as the distance from the highest
portion of the sign to the mean grade at the base of the sign.
      2.   Clearance for freestanding and projecting signs, where specified,
shall be measured as the smallest vertical distance between finished grade and
the lowest point of the sign, including any framework or other structural
elements.
      3.   The permitted maximum height for all signs is determined by the sign
type and the zoning district in which the sign is located (see §§ 907-909).
   E.   Sign Spacing. The spacing between signs shall be measured as a
straight-line distance between the closest edges of each sign. For both on-lot
(except those delineated in Section
905.J.3.b) and off-lot signs, minimum spacing is determined by the speed limit
on the adjacent street as it relates to visibility and readability (see Table
A), unless otherwise specified or unless lot sizes dictate closer spacing.
   Table A. Minimum Sign Spacing
Speed Limit Minimum Spacing
Speed Limit Minimum Spacing
>55 MPH     440 feet
50-54 MPH   400 feet
45-49 MPH   360 feet
40-44 MPH   320 feet
35-39 MPH   280 feet
30-34 MPH   240 feet
25-29 MPH   200 feet
 
   Source: Schwab, R. N., Safety and Human Factors: Design Considerations for
On-Premise Commercial Signs. (Washington DC: International Sign Association,
1998) and Garvey, P. M., et al., Sign Visibility: Research and Traffic Safety
Overview. (Bristol, PA: The United States Sign Council, 1996).
   F.   Sign Illumination.
      1.   Signs may be illuminated, unless otherwise specified herein,
consistent with the following standards:
         a.   Illuminated signs shall be so arranged so that the source of
light is not visible from any point off the lot and that only the sign is
directly illuminated. Any lighting of billboards or other externally
illuminated signs of more than 20 square feet of sign area shall be placed at
the top of the billboard or sign and be aimed downwards.
         b.   Lighted signs shall conform to all applicable requirements of
Section
502.
         c.   On-lot lighted signs in all districts shall be extinguished
between 11 PM and dawn, except in the case of a non-residential use that is
open during those hours. In the latter case, the on-lot lighted sign must be
extinguished when the non-residential use is closed.
      2.   Types of Illumination: Where permitted, illumination may be:
         a.   External: External illumination shall be by a steady, stationary
light source, shielded and directed solely at the sign. The light source must
be static in color.
         b.   Internal: Internally illuminated signs, and neon lighting, where
permitted, must be static in intensity and color.
      3.   Electrical Standards.
         a.   The electrical supply to all exterior signs, whether to the sign
itself or to lighting fixtures positioned to illuminate the sign, shall be
provided by means of concealed electrical cables. Electrical supply to
freestanding signs shall be provided by means of underground cables.
         b.   The owner of any illuminated sign shall arrange for a
certification showing compliance with the brightness standards set forth herein
by an independent contractor and provide the certification documentation to
Springfield Township as a prior condition for issuance of a sign permit.
   G.   Changeable Message Signs.
      1.   Message Duration: The minimum message duration shall be no less than
eight (8) seconds.
   H.   Directional Signs.
      1.   Directional signs shall not exceed 3 square feet in area.
      2.   Height of directional signs, measured from the mean elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the foot of the sign to the highest point of the
sign structure shall not exceed three and one-half (3.5) feet.
   I.   Signs Not Permitted.
      1.   No signs shall emit smoke, visible vapors or particles, sound or
odor.
      2.   No roof signs shall be permitted.
      3.   No sign or any guy, stay or attachment thereto shall be erected or
placed on any electric light, power, telephone wires, or supports thereof.
      4.   Electronic Message Centers (EMCs) shall be prohibited in all zoning
districts within the Township.
      5.   Abandoned signs.
      6.   Signs incorporating beacon lighting.
      7.   Any sign of any type suspended across a public street, without the
permission of the owners of the properties and road.
   J.   Exempt Signs. A sign permit shall not be required prior to the
erection, structural repair, alteration, moving, removal, or demolition of any
of the following signs in any zoning district in the municipality. Exempt signs
shall conform to the regulations of §
905. No exempt sign shall be illuminated, either from an interior light source
or by an exterior source focused on the sign, except for official governmental
building signs and police station signs.
      1.   Official highway route number signs, street name signs, and other
official traffic signs that are in the interest of public safety or the
regulation of traffic.
      2.   Signs that are not visible from a public right-of-way and not
visible at a property line not in single ownership.
      3.   Small, on-lot signs
         a.   “Small sign- Type A”: with a sign area >1 sq. ft. but < 2 sq. ft.
            i.   One Type A sign is allowed per lot.
         b.   “Small sign - Type B”: with a sign < 1 sq. ft.
            i.   Minimum sign spacing is 100 ft.
            ii.   Number of signs = Total lot perimeter length/100.
      4.   Temporary signs, provided that the area on any one side of such sign
shall not exceed 6 square feet and the height shall not exceed three and one-
half (3.5) feet. Temporary signs shall be displayed for no more than 90 days in
a 6-month period and shall be marked indelibly with the posting date. Temporary
signs that relate to a specific event shall be removed by the installer or by
the lot owner on which the sign is installed within 5 days after the event has
occurred. Three temporary signs are permitted per lot, except that a lot
fronting on more than one street may have three temporary signs on each street
frontage.
      5.   Window Sign - A sign applied to a window pane (e.g., giving store
hours or the name or names of credit or charge institutions), when the total
area if any such sign or all signs together does not exceed 1 square foot.
      6.   Cornerstone or historical plaque/sign affixed to the surface of a
building wall and not exceeding one and one-half (1.5) square feet.
      7.   Bunting - Bunting, pennants, and similar materials to announce the
opening of a new structure, business or industry placed on the premises,
provided the bunting is removed not later than 14 days after the opening day or
the first day of operation.
      8.   Official and governmental signs including flags or insignia, safety
signs, signs indicating points of interest, signs identifying official Township
buildings or facilities. Signs identifying Township buildings, police stations,
or other Township facilities may be illuminated by exterior lights focused on
the sign.
      9.   Holiday and seasonal decorations.
      10.   Personal expression signs of any type, including flags, provided
that they do not exceed eight (8) sq. ft. in area per side, are non-commercial
in nature, and no illuminated.
      11.   Flags:
         a.   Location. Flags and flagpoles shall not be located within any
right-of-way.
         b.   Height. Flagpoles shall have a maximum height of 30 ft.
         c.   Number. No more than two (2) flags per lot in residential
districts, no more than three (3) flags per lot in all other districts.
         d.   Size. Maximum flag size is 24 sq. ft. in residential districts,
35 sq. ft. in all other districts.
         e.   Flags containing commercial messages may be used as permitted
freestanding or projecting signs, and, if so used, the area of the flag shall
be included in, and limited by the computation of allowable area for signs on
the property. Flags up to eight (8) sq. ft. in area containing noncommercial
messages are considered personal expression signs and are regulated in
accordance with §
905.J.10.
      12.   Vending machine signs.
      13.   Memorial signs, public monument or historical identification signs
erected by Springfield Township, including plaque signs up to six (6) sq. ft.
in area.
      14.   Signs advertising the variety of crop growing in a field. Such
signs shall be removed after the growing season.
      15.   Incidental signs, including incidental window signs.
      16.   Art and murals, provided that such signs do not contain any
commercial messaging.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 906 Off-Lot Advertising Signs.
   A.   Off-lot advertising signs shall be permitted only on properties with
frontage on an arterial roadway within the HC Highway Commercial and PI Planned
Industrial Zoning Districts.
   B.    An Off-lot advertising sign shall only be allowed if a lot does not
include more than one other freestanding sign.
   C.    One off-lot sign may be erected on a property. Vertically or
horizontally stacked signs shall not be permitted.
   D.   Placement of off-lot advertising signs shall be:
      1.   Set back from the ultimate right of way a distance equal to the
height of the off-lot sign or 15 feet, whichever is greater.
      2.   Located no closer than 25 feet from any property line.
      3.   Located no closer than 50 feet from any building, structure, or on
lot sign located on the same property
   E.   Area of off-lot advertising signs - No off-lot advertising sign shall
be permitted to exceed a maximum area of 150 square feet including border but
excluding supports and decorative trim that are not part of the copy content of
the display.
   F.   Off-lot advertising signs shall not exceed a maximum height of 25 feet.
   G.   Spacing: Off-lot signs shall be:
      1.   Located no closer to another off-lot sign, on either side of the
road, than designated in Table A (Section
905.E.) as measured, parallel to the cartway edge, between cross-road
perpendiculars at each sign location .
      2.   Located no closer than 500 ft. from any intersection.
      3.   Located no closer than twenty five feet (25') from the ultimate
right-of-way.
      4.   Not attached to the external wall or otherwise affixed to any part
of any building and shall not extend over any public property or right-of-way.
      5.   Not located on sewer rights-of-way, or water, electric, or petroleum
pipelines.
      6.   Not located on a bridge.
   H.   Double-Sided Off-lot Signs: Signs may be single or double-sided, in
accordance with §
905.C. Sign Area.
   I.   Message Sequencing: Message sequencing is prohibited.
   J.   Construction and Maintenance.
      1.   All off-lot advertising signs shall be structurally sound and
maintained in good condition and in compliance with the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code.
      2.   The rear face of a single-face, off-lot advertising sign shall be
painted and maintained with a single neutral color.
      3.   Every three years, the owner of the billboard shall have a
structural inspection made of the billboard by a licensed engineer registered
in Pennsylvania and shall provide to Springfield Township a certificate
certifying that the billboard is structurally sound.
   K.   Identification of Sign Owner: All off-lot advertising signs shall be
identified on the structure with the name, address, and phone number of the
owner of such sign, legible from the ground.
   L.   Landscaping.
      1.   Landscaping shall be provided at the base of all off-lot advertising
signs. Trees and shrubbery, including evergreen and flowering trees, of
sufficient size and quantity shall be used to achieve the purpose of this
Section.
      2.   Trees greater than four (4) inches in diameter removed for
construction of the sign shall be replaced on-site at a ratio of one (1)
replacement tree for each removed tree using native species no less than three
(3) inches in diameter.
   M.   Additional Regulations. All off-lot advertising signs shall comply with
any and all applicable zoning regulations of Springfield Township, and any and
all municipal, state and/or federal regulations. In the event any other
applicable regulation is in conflict with the provisions of this Section, the
more restrictive regulation shall apply.
   N.   Application/Plan Requirements. Plans submitted for off-lot advertising
signs shall show the following:
      1.   The location of the proposed sign on the lot with the required sign
setbacks from the property line and ultimate right-of-way.
      2.   The location and species of existing trees.
      3.   The distance to the nearest existing off-lot advertising sign.
      4.   The distances to the nearest right-of-way, property line, building,
structure, on-site sign, intersection, interchange, safety rest area, bridge,
residential district, and institutional use, sewer rights-of-way, and water,
electric or petroleum pipelines.
      5.   Site plan containing all of the applicable requirements set forth in
the Springfield Township zoning ordinance, as amended.
      6.   Certification under the seal by a licensed engineer that the off-lot
sign, as proposed, is designed in accordance with all federal, state, and local
laws, codes, and professional standards.
   O.   Illumination and Changeable Copy of Off-Lot Advertising Signs.
      1.   Off-lot advertising signs may incorporate manually changeable copy
signs.
      2.   Off-lot advertising signs may be illuminated, provided that:
         a.   All light sources are designed, shielded, arranged, and installed
to confine or direct all illumination to the surface of the off-lot advertising
sign and away from adjoining properties.
         b.   Light sources are not visible from any street or adjoining
properties.
      3.   External and internal illumination types shall be permitted subject
to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
      4.   Off-lot advertising signs may incorporate Tri-Vision Signs.
         a.   The minimum length of time each message of the Tri-Vision Sign
may be displayed before changing is 8 seconds.
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 907 On-Lot Signs Permitted in WS Watershed District, AD Agricultural
District, RP Resource Protection District, RR Rural Residential District, VR
Village Residential District and DD Development District (Non-Commercial
Districts).
   No sign or other on-lot advertising device shall be permitted except that
the following signs are permitted on a lot, subject to the conditions specified
here and in §
905:
      A.   Any sign smaller than 2 sq. ft. See §
905.J.3.
      B.   Any temporary sign. See §
905.J.4.
      C.   A free-standing sign for a permitted non-residential building or
use. The area of such a sign shall not exceed 12 sq. ft.
      D.   A wall or projecting sign for a permitted non-residential building
or use. The area of such a sign shall not exceed 10 sq. ft.
      E.   Illumination. No sign in these districts shall be internally
laminated. See also §
905.F.1a. and §
905.F.1.b.
   Summary Table for On-Lot Signs in Non-Commercial Districts
 
Sign Type      Small            Temporary       Free- Standing Wall or
                                                               Projecting
               Type A (1-2 sq.
               ft.): 1 per lot  3 per lot; 6 on
               Type B (<1 sq.   lots with
Maximum Number ft.): See        frontage on 2   1 per lot      1 per lot
               formula in       streets
               Section
               905.J.3.b.
Maximum Area   Type A:2 sq. ft. 6 sq. ft.       12 sq. ft.     10 sq. ft
               Type B: 1 sq. ft
                                                               The eaveline or
                                                               the bottom of
Maximum Height 8 ft.            3.5 ft.         8 ft.          the second story
                                                               window sill,
                                                               whichever is
                                                               lower
 
§ 908 Signs in the VC Village Commercial District.
   No sign or other on-lot advertising device shall be permitted except that 2
of the following signs types are allowed per lot, subject to the conditions
specified here and in Section
905:
      A.   All signs permitted in §
907 at the standards prescribed in that Section.
      B.   Freestanding signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted
subject to the following regulations.
         1.   Number: One (1) sign per street frontage, up to two (2) signs per
property held in single and separate ownership.
         2.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 15 sq. ft., plus an
additional 5 sq. ft. per tenant, up to a maximum of 30 sq. ft.
         3.   Height: Freestanding signs shall have a maximum height of 8 ft.
      C.   All wall, awning/canopy, and projecting signs shall be subject to
the following limitations based on sign type, with total sign area limited to
one and a half (1.5) square feet per one (1) linear foot of building frontage
that faces a public street or parking lot:
         1.   Wall signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted subject to
the following regulations.
            a.   Number: One (1) sign per tenant per street frontage, up to two
(2) signs per tenant. Where a property has entrances facing both a street and a
parking lot, a second sign is permitted to face the parking lot.
            b.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 12 sq. ft. per
sign face.
            c.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline or the bottom of the second story window sill, whichever is lower.
         2.   Awning or canopy signs for non-residential uses shall be
permitted subject to the following regulations.
            a.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline or the bottom of the second story window sill, whichever is lower.
         3.   Projecting signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted
subject to the following regulations.
            a.   Number: One (1) sign per ground floor establishment, plus one
(1) sign per building entrance serving one or more commercial tenants without a
ground floor entrance.
            b.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 10 sq. ft. per
sign face.
            c.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline or the bottom of the second story window sill, whichever is lower.
      D.   Window signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted subject to
the following regulations.
         1.   Area: A maximum of 15% of the total window area of any single
storefront may be used for permanent signs that are etched, painted, or
otherwise permanently affixed to the window.
         2.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be permitted
subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
            a.   Neon lighting
      E.   Portable signs, subject to the following conditions:
         1.   Portable signs shall not be displayed on any premises before 6:00
AM and shall be removed each day at or before 10:00 PM. However, all portable
signs must be taken in during hours of non-operation of the business being
advertised.
         2.   Number: One (1) sign per establishment.
         3.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 8 sq. ft. per sign
face. The sign shall be configured and positioned so that it does not block
more than 50% of the pedestrian right-of-way.
         4.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height of three and one-half
(3.5) feet.
      F.   Illumination of Signs. Those signs in the VC District that are
illuminated shall use external lights directed toward the sign. To maintain the
village architectural character of the VC District, no internally illuminated
signs (with the exception of window signs (see §
908.D.2)) shall be permitted. Refer also to §
905.F, which regulates lighting.
   Summary Table for On-Lot Signs in Village Commercial Districts
 
        Free-        Wall and
        Standing     Awning/      Projecting     Window        Portable
                     Canopy
                                  1 per ground
                     Wall: 1 per  floor
                     tenant per   establishment,
        1 per street street       plus 1 per
Maximum frontage; up frontage (up building       1 per         1 per
Number  to 2 per lot to 2 per     entrance       establishment establishment
                     tenant       serving
                     Awning/      tenants w/o a
                     Canopy: N/A  ground floor
                                  entrance
        15 sq. ft.
        plus 5 sq.   Wall: 12 sq.
Maximum ft. per      ft.          10 sq. ft.     2 square feet 8 sq. ft.
Area    additional   Awning/
        tenant up to Canopy: N/A
        30 sq. ft.
                     Eaveline or  Eaveline or
Maximum              2nd story    2nd story
Height  8 ft.        window sill, window sill,   N/A           3.5 ft.
                     whichever is whichever is
                     lower        lower
 
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 909 Signs Permitted in the HC Highway Commercial and PI Planned Industrial
Districts.
   No sign or other on-lot advertising device shall be permitted except that
the following signs are permitted on a lot:
      A.   Any sign permitted in §
908 at the standards prescribed for in that Section.
      B.   Signs advertising a permitted principal nonresidential use are
allowed, provided that, for all signs viewable from outside a building, such
signs shall be in accordance with the following:
         1.   All wall, awning/canopy, and projecting signs shall be subject to
the following limitations based on sign type, with total sign area limited to
one and a half (1.5 square feet per one (1) linear foot of building frontage
that faces a public street or parking lot:
            a.   Wall signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted subject
to the following regulations:
               i.   Number: One (1) sign per tenant per street frontage, up to
a maximum of two (2) signs per tenant. Where a store has entrances facing both
a street and a parking lot, a second sign is permitted to face the parking lot.
               ii.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 32 sq. ft.
per sign face.
               iii.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline. A row or series of adjoining signs to be placed upon a wall surface
having a common roofline shall be of the same size, shape, general design, and
material so as to create uniformity among the series of signs.
               iv.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination:
                  (a)   Internal illumination
                  (b)   External illumination, lit from above
                  (c)   Halo illumination or back-lit letters
                  (d)   Neon lighting
            b.   Awning or canopy signs for non-residential uses shall be
permitted subject to the following regulations.
               i.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline.
               ii.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
                  (a)   external illumination, lit from above
                  (b)   neon lighting
         2.   Window signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted subject
to the following regulations.
            a.   Area: A maximum of 25% of the total window area of any single
storefront may be used for permanent signs that are etched, painted, or
permanently affixed to the window. A maximum of 35% of the total window area of
any single storefront may be covered by a combination of permanent and
temporary window signs.
            b.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
               i.   Neon lighting
         3.   Marquee signs for non-residential uses shall be permitted subject
to the following regulations.
            a.   Number: One (1) marquee sign per building.
            b.   Area: The total area of signs on a single marquee structure
shall not exceed 200 sq. ft. in area.
            c.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height equal to the
eaveline.
            d.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
               i.    Internal illumination
               ii.   Electronic Alphanumeric Display
         4.   In addition to building signs, freestanding signs for non-
residential uses shall be permitted subject to the following regulations.
            a.   Number: One (1) sign per street frontage, up to two (2) signs
per property held in single and separate ownership.
               i.   For permitted drive-through establishments, one (1)
additional freestanding sign shall be permitted for the advertising items for
sale to users of the drive-through lane only.
            b.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 50 sq. ft. plus
an additional 10 sq. ft. per tenant up to a maximum of 100 sq. ft.
            c.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height of 20 ft.
            d.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
               i.   Internal illumination
               ii.   Electronic alphanumeric display
         5.   Upper level building identification signs shall be permitted
subject to the following regulations.
            a.   Number: One (1) sign per building.
            b.   Area: Each sign shall have a maximum area of 200 sq. ft.
            c.   Height: Signs shall have a maximum height of ten (10) feet and
shall not extend vertically beyond the eaveline.
            d.   Location: Signs shall be limited to buildings at least three
(3) stories in height and shall be located only on the top floor of such
buildings.
            e.   Illumination: The following illumination types shall be
permitted subject to the regulations in §
905.F. Sign Illumination.
               i.   Internal illumination
   Summary Table for On-Lot Signs in Commercial and Industrial Districts
 
                             Wall and                                        Upper Level
             Free- Standing  Awning/   Projecting     Window        Marquee  Building
                             Canopy                                          Identification
                             Wall: 1
             1 per street    per       1 per ground
             frontage; up to tenant    floor
             2 per lot       per       establishment,
             (additional     street    plus 1 per                            1 per building
Maximum      signs allowed   frontage  building       1 per         1 per    (>3 stories
Number       for gas         (up to 2  entrance       establishment building high)
             stations and    per       serving
             drive-thru      tenant    tenants w/o a
             establishments) Awning/   ground floor
                             Canopy:   entrance
                             N/A
                             1.5 sq.
                             ft. per
                             lineal    1.5 sq. ft.
                             ft. of    per lineal ft.
                             building  of building
Maximum Area                frontage, frontage,      2 square feet          
(Total)                      subject   subject to
                             to max.   max. size
                             size      limits based
                             limits    on sign type
                             based on
                             sign type
             50 sq. ft. plus Wall: 32
Maximum Area an additional   sq. ft.                                200 sq.
(individual) 10 sq. ft. per  Awning/   20 sq. ft.     2 square feet ft.      200 sq. ft.
             tenant up to    Canopy:
             100 sq. ft.     N/A
Maximum      20 ft.          Eaveline  Eaveline       N/A           Eaveline Eaveline
Height
 
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 910 Directional Signs Permitted in All Districts.
   Signs not on the property to which they relate, and which are used for
directing persons to principal permitted uses in the Township may be erected
subject to the following additional requirements:
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      A.   A permit shall be obtained as provided in §
902 hereof.
      (Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
      B.   A sign shall indicate only the name and direction of the principal
use.
      C.   Only one such sign shall be erected prior to each intersection
turning movement necessary to reach such principal use.
      D.   Such signs shall be located not more than 100 feet from intersecting
street right-of-way lines.
      E.   No more than two directional signs shall be erected in the Township
for any one principal use.
      F.   Signs shall not exceed 3 square feet in area.
      G.   Signs shall be no closer that 20 feet to a side lot line and shall
not be located within the street right-of-way line.
      H.   Height of signs, measured from the mean elevation of the proposed
finished grade at the foot of the sign to the highest point of the sign
structure shall not exceed 10 feet.
      I.   Written permission from the owner of the property on which the sign
is to be placed must be obtained and provided as part of the permit
application.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010)
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 907; Ord. 156, passed 4-27-2010, §§ 56, 57)
Article 10
Zoning Hearing Board
§ 1001 Establishment of the Board.
   The existing Township Zoning Hearing Board is hereby authorized and
continued to carry out responsibilities provided in this Ordinance and in the
State Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1000)
§ 1002 Membership, Terms of Office.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall consist of three members appointed by
resolution by the Board of Supervisors for 3-years terms, which one term
expiring each year. All terms shall begin on the 1st day of January. Members of
the Board shall be residents of the Township and shall hold no other office in
the Township. Any member of the Board may be removed for cause by the Board of
Supervisors upon written notice and charges after a public hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1001)
§ 1003 Alternate Members.
   The Board of Supervisors may appoint by resolution at least one but no more
than three residents of the Township to serve as alternate member of the Board.
An alternate shall, when seated on the Board when a regular member is not able
to service, participate in all proceedings and discussions of the Board to the
same and full extent as provided by law for Board members, including
specifically the right to cast a vote as a voting member during the
proceedings, and shall have all the powers and duties set forth in this act and
as otherwise provided by law and this Ordinance. At any time, an alternate may
participate in any proceeding or discussion of the Board but shall not be
entitled to vote as a member of the Board nor be compensated unless seated as
an alternate member. Alternates shall hold no other office in the Township. The
term of office of an alternate member shall be 3 years.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1002)
§ 1004 Organization of the Zoning Hearing Board.
   1.   The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its membership annually. A
quorum shall be necessary for the conduct of any hearing and the taking of any
action. A quorum shall be not less than a majority of all members of the Board,
but the Board may appoint a hearing officer from its membership to conduct any
hearing on its behalf, in accordance with the State Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended.
   2.   If, by reason of absence or disqualification of a member, a quorum is
not reached, the chairman of the Board shall designate as many alternate
members of the Board to sit on the board as are available and as may be needed
to result in a full Board. Any alternate member of the Board shall continue to
serve on the Board in all proceedings involving the matter or case for which
the alternate was initially appointed until the Board has made a final
determination of the matter or case. Designation of an alternate pursuant to
this Section shall be made on a case-by-case basis in rotation according to
declining seniority among all alternates.
   3.   The Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with ordinances of the Township and the State. Within the
limits of funds provided by the Township Supervisors, the Board may employ or
contract for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel, consultants, and other
technical and clerical services. The Board shall keep full public records of
its business, which records shall be the property of the Township, and shall
submit a report of its activities to the Board of Supervisors as requested by
the Board of Supervisors.
   4.   Members of the Board may receive compensation for the performance of
their duties, as may be fixed by the Board of Supervisors, but in no case shall
it exceed the rate of compensation authorized to be paid to the members of the
Board of Supervisors. Alternate members of the board may receive compensation,
as may be fixed by the Board of Supervisors, for the performance of their
duties when designated as alternate members, but in no case shall such
compensation exceed the rate of compensation authorized to be paid to members
of the Board of Supervisors.
   5.   Meetings shall be open to the public and shall be at the call of the
Chairperson and at other such times as the Board may specify in its rules of
procedure.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1003)
§ 1005 Persons Entitled to Initiate Action Before the Board and Jurisdiction.
   Appeals under this Section shall be filed with the Township staff in writing
by the landowner affected, any officer or agency of the Township, or any person
aggrieved. Requests for a variance and for a special exception may be filed
with the Board by any landowner or any tenant with the permission of such
landowner. The Zoning Hearing Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear
and render final adjudication in the following matters:
      A.   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except those brought before the Board of Supervisors pursuant to this
Ordinance.
      B.   Challenges to the validity of a land use ordinance raising
procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or adoption
which challenges shall be raised by an appeal taken within 30 days after the
effective date of said Ordinance.
      C.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application thereof, the issuance of any enforcement order or the registration
or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure or lot.
      D.   Appeals from a determination by the Township Engineer or the Zoning
Officer with reference to the administration of any floodplain ordinance or
such provisions this Ordinance.
      E.   Applications for variances from the terms of this Ordinance.
      F.   Applications for special exceptions under this Ordinance.
      G.   Appeals from the determination of any officer or agency charged with
the administration of any performance standard provisions of this Ordinance.
      H.   Appeals from the Zoning Officer’s determination under § 916.2 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
      I.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Township
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and stormwater management
that is not part of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1004)
§ 1006 Manner of Initiating Action Before the Board.
   All action before the Board shall be initiated by a written application for
hearing which shall be filed with the Zoning Officer. All applications shall be
made on forms specified by the Board, and no applications shall be accepted
unless the same shall be fully and legibly completed and unless all exhibits
and supplemental material required by the application shall be attached.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1005)
§ 1007 Time Limitations.
   All appeals from determination adverse to the landowners shall be filed by
the landowner within 30 days after notice of the determination is issued.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1006)
§ 1008 Mediation Option.
   1.   Parties to proceedings authorized in the Article may utilize mediation
as an aid in completing such proceedings. In proceedings before the Zoning
Hearing Board, in no case shall the Zoning Hearing Board initiate mediation or
participate as a mediating party. Mediation shall supplement, not replace,
those procedures in this Article once they have been formally initiated.
Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as expanding or limiting Township
police powers or as modifying any principles of substantive law. Applications
for special exceptions and variances are not appropriate for the mediation
option, and therefore, may not utilize this Section.
   2.   Participation in mediation shall be wholly voluntary. The
appropriateness of mediation shall be determined by the particulars of each
case, and the willingness of the parties to negotiate. The terms and conditions
of mediation are hereby set forth as follows:
      A.   The cost of mediation shall be borne by the applicant.
      B.   The parties shall agree on a mediator who shall have a working
knowledge of municipal zoning and subdivision procedures and demonstrated
skills in mediation.
      C.   Parties to proceedings under this application may select the
mediation option by sending written notice to the Zoning Hearing Board of their
intention to do so. Mediation shall be completed within 90 days of the date of
notification to the Board.
      D.   The written notice to the Zoning Hearing Board indicating the
parties intent to mediate shall include a written consent signed by all parties
agreeing to the suspension of time limits otherwise required by this Ordinance
and the Municipalities Planning Code, and by an applicant or Township
decisions-making body if either is not a party to the mediation.
      E.   All parties to the proceedings shall be identified in the notice to
the Board and shall be served notice of the parties intent to mediate. All
parties shall be afforded the opportunity to participate in any mediation
proceeding.
      F.   Any mediation to which a Township entity is party shall be open to
the public.
      G.   All mediated solutions must be in writing and signed by the parties
and become subject to review and approval by the appropriate decision-making
body pursuant to the authorized procedures set forth in this Ordinance and the
Municipalities Planning Code.
      H.   No offers or statements made in the mediated sessions, excluding the
final written mediated agreement, shall be admissible as evidence in any
subsequent judicial or administrative proceeding.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1007)
§ 1009 Hearings.
   The Board shall meet to hear and consider such matters which shall properly
come before it. All such meetings shall be open to the public.
      A.   Notice. Public notice in accordance with the requirements of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code shall be given and written notice
shall be delivered, given or mailed to the applicant and the Zoning Officer,
and should be given, delivered or mailed to the last known primary owner of
record of property within 500 feet of any lot which is the subject of an
application before the Board. Failure to provide notice to owners of other
property shall not be a reason for an appeal of a Zoning Hearing Board decision
or a delay of a hearing. In addition to the notice provided herein, notice of
said hearing shall be conspicuously posted on the affected tract of land at
least 1 week prior to the hearing.
      B.   Fees and Expenses. The Board of Supervisors shall prescribe
reasonable fees with respect to hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board. Fees
for said hearings may include compensation for the Secretary, legal counsel and
members of the Zoning Hearing Board, notice and advertising costs and
administrative overhead, and such other expenses as are authorized under State
law. The costs to the applicant, however, shall not include expenses for expert
witness costs engaged by the Township.
      C.   Time Limit. The hearing shall be held within 60 days after the date
of the applicant’s submittal of a complete application to the Township, unless
the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time, or unless a
different time period is provided in State law.
      D.   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board or the Board may
appoint any member as a hearing officer. The decision, or, where no decision is
called for, the findings shall be made by the board, however, the appellant or
the applicant, as the case may be, in addition to the municipality, may, prior
to the decision of the hearing, waive decisions or findings by the Board and
accept the decision or findings of the hearing officer as final. The Board or
hearing officer shall render a written decision, or written findings where no
decision is called for, on the application within the time limit established
under State law.
      E.   The parties to the hearing shall be the Township, any person
affected by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the
Board, and any other person including civic or community organizations
permitted to appear by the Board. The Zoning Hearing Board shall have the power
to require that all persons who wish to be considered parties enter appearances
in writing on forms provided by the Board for that purpose.
      F.   The chairperson or acting chairperson shall have the power to
administer oaths and issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and
the production of relevant documents and papers, including witnesses and
documents requested by parties.
      G.   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and
shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument
and cross-examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
      H.   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant,
immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded by the Board.
      I.   The Board or the hearing officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his/her representatives in connection with any
issue currently before the Board except upon notice and opportunity for all
parties to participate, shall not take notice of any communication, reports,
staff memoranda, or other materials, except advice from their Solicitor, unless
such material is part of the public file for the application and is available
for review and contest by all parties, and shall not inspect the site or its
surroundings after the commencement of hearings with any party or his
representative unless all parties are given an opportunity to be present.
      J.   Where the application is contested or denied, each decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together with the
reasons therefore. Conclusions based specific provisions of this Ordinance
shall reference at least one provision that is relied upon.
      K.   A copy of the final decisions, or where no decision is called for,
the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him/
her within the time period established by State law.
      L.   Appeals to the Court. Any person aggrieved by any decisions of the
Board may, within 30 days after such decisions of the Board, file an appeal to
the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County. Such appeals shall be made in
accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1008)
§ 1010 Powers and Duties.
   1.   Variances. The Board shall hear requests for variances where it is
alleged that the provisions of this Ordinance inflict unnecessary hardship on
the applicant. An ability to increase a financial return or reduce a financial
liability shall not be a reason for a variance. The Board may by rule prescribe
the form of application and may require preliminary application to the Zoning
Officer. The board may grant a variance provided the following findings are
made where relevant in a given case:
      A.   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions, and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this
Ordinance in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located.
      B.   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this Ordinance and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property.
      C.   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant.
      D.   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare.
      E.   The variance if authorized will represent the minimum variance that
will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of the
regulation in issue.
      F.   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purpose of
this Ordinance. The Zoning Hearing Board shall also have the authority to
establish conditions that are necessary to minimize disturbance of and to
conserve steep slopes, mature woodland, wetlands, floodplains, springs,
waterways and other important natural features.
      G.   A grant of a variance shall not be allowed simply for economic
reasons if the applicant has not met the required standards for a variance that
are provided in State law, which are restated in paragraphs .A through .E
above. The reasons for granting a variance must be serious, substantial and
compelling, unless the applicant is able to prove that a de minimis variance is
being requested.
      H.   A use variance shall not be allowed unless the applicant proves that
the property is virtually unusable under the currently allowed uses, unless the
applicant proves that a particular use is not addressed anywhere in the
Township or unless the applicant proves that the proposed use is closely
similar to a use allowed in that district.
   2.   Special Exceptions. Where this Ordinance has provided for certain
applications to be granted or denied by the Board as special exceptions, the
Board shall hear and decide such requests. In granting a special exception, the
Board may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to
those expressed in this Ordinance, as it may deem necessary to implement the
purposes of this Ordinance.
      A.   Persons with Disabilities. After the Zoning Officer receives a
complete written application, the Zoning Hearing Board shall grant a special
exception allowing modifications to specific requirements of this Ordinance
that the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board are
required under applicable Federal law to provide a “reasonable accommodation”
to serve persons who the applicant proves have “disabilities” as defined in and
protected by such laws.
         (1)   Such reasonable accommodations shall be requested in accordance
with the U.S. Fair Housing Act Amendments and/or the Americans with
Disabilities Act, as amended.
         (2)   If the applicant is requesting a reasonable accommodation under
the United States Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or the Americans with
Disabilities Act, the applicant shall identify the disability which is
protected by such statutes, the extent of the modification of the provisions of
this Ordinance necessary for a reasonable accommodation, and the manner by
which the reasonable accommodation requested may be removed when such person(s)
with a protected disability no longer will be present on the property.
         (3)   Any modification approved under this Section may be limited to
the time period during which the persons with disabilities occupy or utilize
the premises.
   3.   Additional Factors to Be Considered in Requests for Special Exceptions
and Variances. In passing upon applications for special exceptions and
variances the Board shall consider all relevant factors and procedures
specified in other sections of this Ordinance, including Article 4, “Use
Regulations,” as well as the following:
      A.   Consider the suitability of the property for the use desired and the
extent to which the new or expanded use is regulated by appropriate conditions
and safeguards.
      B.   Consider whether the use would create a hazard to the public health
or safety or unreasonable nuisances to neighboring residents.
      C.   Consider the adequacy of the proposed water supply and sanitation
systems. If water supply and sanitary sewage matters will be addressed under
another Township ordinance or a separate Township, county or State approval,
the Board may require compliance with such ordinance or approval as a condition
of the Board’s approval, without requiring that the details be provided before
the Zoning Hearing Board.
      D.   Consider the effects of the proposed use with respect to the most
appropriate use of land; safety from fire, panic and other dangers; adequacy of
light and air; and whether undue burdens will be placed upon public and
community services.
      E.   Consider the compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      F.   Give full consideration to the size, scope, intent, and character of
the special exception or variance requested and assure the compatibility of the
proposed use with the purposes of the comprehensive plan and with all
applicable requirements of this Ordinance.
      G.   Consider the safety of access to the property for motor vehicles and
emergency vehicles and the probable effects of proposed development on highway
congestion and safety, and insure that adequate access arrangements are
provided in order to protect roadways from undue congestion and hazard.
      H.   The applicant shall provide credible evidence that noise, fumes,
vibration and excessive lighting will be properly controlled.
      I.   The Board may request that the Township engage the Township Engineer
or another professional to provide technical assistance to the Board in regards
to an application. This includes, but is not limited to, matters involving
compliance with the floodplain regulations, nuisances or hazards.
      J.   Special exceptions and/or variances shall only be issued after the
Board has determined that the granting of such will not result in additional
threats to the public safety, extraordinary public expense, creation of
unreasonable nuisances to neighbors, or conflict with local ordinances.
      K.   The Zoning Hearing Board or Zoning Officer shall have the authority
to require an applicant to present additional information if necessary to
determine compliance with this Ordinance.
      L.   The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed use will be
suitable for the site, considering the disturbance of steep slopes, mature
woodland, wetlands, floodplains, springs and other important natural features,
and considering measures that the applicant proposes to conserve such features
as a condition of approval.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1009)
§ 1011 Validity of Ordinance; Substantive Questions.
   1.   A landowner who, on substantive grounds, desires to challenge the
validity of an ordinance or map or any provisions thereof which prohibits or
restricts the use or development of land in which he has an interest shall
submit the challenge either to the zoning hearing board in accordance with this
Article or to the Board of Supervisors together with a request for a curative
amendment in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   2.   Persons aggrieved by a use or development permitted on the land of
another by an ordinance or map, or any provisions thereof, who desire to
challenge the validity on substantive grounds shall first submit their
challenge to the Zoning Hearing Board for a decision thereon.
   3.   The submissions referred to in subsections .1 and .2 above shall be
governed by the criteria set forth in appropriate sections of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
   4.   The initial hearing shall be commenced within the time limits of State
law, unless the applicant requests or consents to an extension of time.
   5.   Public notice of the hearing shall include notice that the validity of
the ordinance or map is in question and shall give the place where and the
times when a copy of the request, including any plans, explanatory material or
proposed amendments may be examined by the public.
   6.   Stay of Proceedings. Upon filing of any proceeding and during its
pendency before the Board, all land development pursuant to any challenged
ordinance, order or approval of the Zoning Officer or any agency or body, and
all official action there under, shall be stayed in accordance with appropriate
sections of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1010)
§ 1012 Expiration of Approvals.
   Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning Hearing Board, a special exception
or variance shall expire if the applicant fails to obtain any and all permits
within 2 years of the date of authorization. See also the provisions for time
limits on permits.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1011)
Article 11
Nonconformities
§ 1101 Continuation of Nonconformities.
      A.   A nonconforming use, nonconforming structure, or nonconforming lot
may be continued as hereinafter provided.
      B.   Where two or more adjacent lots, one or more of which is
nonconforming based on lot size, are owned by the same owner, and the ownership
of the lots is concurrent, such lots shall be combined to create conforming
lots, or to lessen the nonconformity if it is not possible to create all
conforming lots. “Owned by the same owner” indicates ownership separate and
distinct from the owners of adjacent properties. Corporations organized for the
purpose of avoiding this definition are not recognized as separate owners.
§ 1102 Expansion of Nonconforming Uses and Structures.
   A.   A nonconforming structure housing a conforming use may be expanded by
right, if the expansion does not create a new or additional nonconforming
condition. The nonconforming structure may also be expanded by right, if
continuing the exterior face of that portion of the structure that is
nonconforming does not extend further into the required front-, side-, or rear
yards (i.e., does not further exacerbate the dimensional violation) and, when
implemented, does not violate more than one boundary of the building envelope.
Such an expansion shall not include additional encroachments out of the
building envelope as permitted in Sections
501.3.C and
501.3.D for conforming structures.
   An unimproved nonconforming lot may be developed by right for uses allowed
in the particular zoning district under the following conditions:
      1.   The lot is nonconforming due to lot size only.
      2.   The lot is in single and separate ownership apart from any adjacent
parcel that precludes its combination with another parcel; or, after
combination with another eligible lot it remains nonconforming due to lot size.
      3.   All structures shall meet applicable setback requirements.
      4.   All other development aspects of the lot conform to this Chapter.
   B.   A conforming or a nonconforming structure housing a nonconforming use
may be structurally expanded by special exception if the expansion complies
with all other requirements of this Ordinance and does not exceed 50% of the
footprint in existence at the time the use became nonconforming. The
nonconforming use may be expanded only under the provisions of §
1102.C., below.
   C.   The nonconforming use of land or of a structure may be expanded only by
special exception, and provided that:
      1.   The proposed expansion shall take place only upon the lot or
contiguous lots held in the same ownership as that existing at the time the use
became nonconforming. Permission to expand a nonconforming use as described in
this Article shall not be construed to mean that a new use or uses may be
established. A nonconforming use shall be prohibited from encroaching on
another parcel of land subsequently added to the original parcel.
      2.   The proposed use expansion shall conform to all other requirements
of the District in which said expansion is located and to all requirements for
the proposed use in those districts where that is permitted.
   D.   Structures or land uses that have reached their maximum expansion
allowance under previous ordinances are not eligible for further expansion
under this Ordinance. A structure that is nonconforming in terms of height
shall not be expanded to increase the height.
§ 1103 Discontinued Nonconforming Use.
   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a continuous period
of 12 months such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and any future
use of such land or building shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1103)
§ 1104 Changes in Nonconforming Uses.
   Once changed to a conforming use, no structure or land shall be permitted to
revert to a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use only under the following conditions:
      A.   Such change shall be permitted only by special exception, under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
      B.   The applicant shall show that the proposed change will be less
objectionable in external effects than the existing nonconforming use with
respect to:
         (1)   Traffic generation and congestion including truck, passenger,
car and pedestrian traffic.
         (2)   Noise, smoke, dust, fumes, vapors, heat, odor, glare, or
vibration.
         (3)   Waste disposal.
         (4)   Appearance.
         (5)   Hours of operation.
         (6)   Outdoor storage.
§ 1105 Destroyed Nonconforming Structures.
   A.   A non-conforming structure that has been damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, accident, or calamity (as contrasted to deterioration due to time,
neglect, or intentional demolition) may be reconstructed and used, provided
that:
      1.   The reconstructed building shall not exceed in height, area, or
volume the building destroyed, except that expansion may be made as provided
for in Sections
1102.A or
1102.B;
      2.   Building reconstruction shall be started within one year from the
date the building was destroyed and shall be carried on without interruption.
   B.   An otherwise conforming structure, housing a non-conforming use, that
has been damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, accident, or calamity, (as
contrasted to deterioration due to time, neglect, or intentional demolition)
may be reconstructed and used, provided that expansion may only be made as
provided in §
1102.B.
   C.   A non-conforming structure on the Historic Resource List may be
reconstructed or rebuilt under any circumstance of voluntary, approved and
permitted demolition (see §§
514.3.A and
514.4.C) provided:
      1.   The use of said structure is conforming.
      2.    The façade of the structure is rebuilt using as much of the
original materials as practical and the final form of the structure shall not
substantially alter the appearance of the original structure, as established by
photographs or certified copies of original drawings.
      3.   Expansion during rebuilding may be allowed as provided in §
1102.A.
§ 1106 Building Condemned.
   A nonconforming building which has been legally condemned shall not be
rebuilt or used for nonconforming purposes.
§ 1107 Signs.
   Any sign, signboard or advertising device existing at the time of the
passing of this Ordinance that does not conform in use, location, height or
size, with the regulation of the district in which it is located shall be
considered a non-conforming structure. If more than 60 percent of a
nonconforming sign has been destroyed or removed, it may not be renewed or
replaced except with a conforming sign.
§ 1108 Displacement by a Nonconformity.
   No nonconforming use shall be extended to displace a conforming use.
§ 1109 Registration of Nonconforming Uses.
   The Zoning Officer shall accumulate registrations of all uses that are
nonconforming under the terms of this Ordinance. The record of nonconforming
uses shall certify, after inspection, the extent and kind of use and
disposition of the buildings and land. It is the responsibility of the owner of
the nonconforming use to provide evidence of the legality of the nonconformity.
Article 12
Administration
§ 1201 Enforcement.
   The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the
Zoning Officer who shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors. It shall be
the duty of the Zoning Officer, and he is hereby given the power and authority,
to:
      A.   Receive all applications for zoning permits and issue permits when
there is compliance with provisions of this Ordinance, other Township
ordinances and with the laws of the Commonwealth.
      B.   Enforce the provisions of this Ordinance by the issuance of
enforcement orders or by other means. Such written orders shall be served
personally or by registered mail upon the persons, firms, or corporations
deemed by the Zoning Officers to be violating the terms of this Ordinance in
accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
      C.   Receive applications for special exceptions and variances and
forward these applications to the Zoning Hearing Board.
      D.   Conduct investigations to determine compliance with the terms of
this Ordinance.
      E.   The Zoning Officer is authorized to institute civil enforcement
proceedings as a means of enforcement when acting within the scope of his/her
employment.
      F.   Keep a permanent record of all plans and applications for permits
and all permits issued with the notation as to special conditions attached
thereto.
      G.   Maintain a map or maps showing the current zoning classifications of
all land in the Township.
      H.   Present such facts, records, and any similar information to the
Planning Commission, Zoning Hearing Board, or Board of Supervisors upon their
request.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1200)
§ 1202 Zoning Permit Requirements.
   1.   A permit shall be required prior to the erection, construction,
reconstruction, extension, moving, razing, or alteration of any building,
structure, or portion thereof, and prior to the use or change in use of a
building or land and prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use.
   2.   Any erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of a
building or other structure including a sign authorized by zoning permit shall
be commenced and any change in use of a building or land authorized by a zoning
permit shall be undertaken within 1 year after the date of issuance of the
permit. However, in case of erection or construction of a building, the right
to proceed with construction may be extended annually without payment of
additional fees for an aggregate period of not more than 3 years, provided that
the construction pursuant to said permit has commenced within the first 1-year
period.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1201)
§ 1203 Zoning Permit Application.
   1.   Applications for permits shall be made to the Zoning Officer on such
forms as may be furnished by the Township. Each application shall contain all
information necessary for such official to ascertain whether the proposed
erection, alteration, use or change of use complies with the provisions of this
Ordinance. The Zoning Officer may require any of the following information to
be provided:
      A.   Statement as to the proposed use of the building or land.
      B.   A site layout showing the location, dimensions, and height of
proposed buildings or uses and any existing buildings in relation to property
and street lines.
      C.   The location, size, arrangement, and capacity of all areas to be
used for motor vehicles access, off-street parking, off-street loading and
unloading, and provisions to be made for lighting such areas.
      D.   The location, dimensions, and arrangements of all open spaces, yards
and buffer yards, including methods to be employed for any required screening.
      E.   Provisions to be made for treatment and disposal of sewage and
industrial wastes, water supply, and storm drainage.
      F.   The capacity and arrangement of all buildings used or intended to be
used for dwelling purposes, including the proposed density in terms of dwelling
units per acre.
      G.   A description of methods to be employed in controlling any excess
noise, air pollution, smoke, fumes, water pollution, fire hazards, and other
safety hazards.
      H.   Wherever the topography and vegetation are to be disturbed, a plan
for the control of erosion and sediment and grading is required. It shall be
unlawful to pave, fill, strip or change the existing grade of any land; and it
shall be unlawful to disturb, modify, divert, block, or affect the natural
overland or subsurface flow of stormwater within the Township without first
securing a zoning permit. No permits shall be required for normal agricultural
operations or where the area to be stripped does not exceed 1,000 square feet
and where the grade change does not exceed 6 inches in any one area and all
bare earth is properly seeded, sodded or otherwise protected from erosion. The
following data shall be provided:
         (1)   An area plan describing existing and proposed features of the
area surrounding the site of work, including topography, existing vegetation,
water courses, man-made features, the affected watersheds and other pertinent
natural features. This may be in the form of a recent USGS map with the
property and required features located thereon.
         (2)   A topographic survey of the site as a suitable scale of no less
than 1 inch equals 50 feet and contour intervals of no more than 2 feet,
prepared by a registered surveyor or registered engineer, including also a
boundary line survey, the location and description of vegetative cover,
including trees over 6 inches in diameter measured 4.5 feet above the ground,
soil types, and any other pertinent existing natural or manmade features.
         (3)   An improvements plan of the same size and scale as that provided
in subparagraph (2) showing and describing all changes to the site including
cuts, fills, structures, paving, waste disposal systems, well, descriptions of
all trees to be removed, and utilities. The natural resource protection
standards contained in Article 5 shall be adhered to by all proposed
development or improvements.
         (4)   A written description of all soil erosion and sediment control
measures in accordance with Chapter 102, Title 25, Rules and Regulations, Part
I, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, Subpart C, Protection
of Natural Resources, Article II, Water Resources, Chapter 102, Erosion
Control, which shall be in conformance with the standards and specifications of
the Bucks County Conservation District, and Township ordinances.
         (5)   A grading plan showing and describing all changes to the site
including cuts, fills, structures, paving, utilities, rights-of-way, easements,
the exact location of on-site waste disposal systems, wells and reserve waste
disposal system areas.
         (6)   Improvement Standards.
            (a)   All grading and improvements shall be made in accordance with
the natural resource protection standards contained in Article 5 of this
Ordinance.
            (b)   All drainage facilities shall be designed to retard the rate
of stormwater runoff to the same rate or a lesser rate as that existing prior
to construction.
            (c)   All drainage provisions shall be of such design as to
efficiently carry waters to the nearest street, storm drain, or natural
watercourse. If these facilities do no exist, then in that event, stormwater
shall be evenly dispersed over the lot so as to best promote infiltration of
stormwater into the ground within the boundaries of the subject lot.
   2.   No permit for any new use or construction which will involve the on-
site disposal of sewage and waste and no permit for a change in use as an
alteration which will result in an increased volume of sewage or waste to be
disposed of on site shall be issued until a certificate of approval has been
issued by the Bucks County Department of Health.
   3.   No permit for any new use or construction which will involve the on-
site water supply and no permit for a change in use as an alteration which will
result in an increased water usage shall be issued until the requirements of
the Township subdivision and land development well requirements have been met.
   4.   No permit for any use or construction which will involve earth
disturbance in excess of 1,000 square feet shall be issued until a letter of
adequacy for the proposed erosion and sedimentation control measures has been
issued by the Bucks County Conservation District. All construction activity
shall be in compliance with the requirements of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan and Chapter 102, Title 25, Rules and Regulations,
Part 1, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection,
Subpart C, Protection of Natural Resources, Article II, Water Resources,
Chapter 102, “Erosion Control.”
(Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008)
   5.   Mobile Home Park Permits. Applications for a mobile home park permit
shall be made in writing by the owner, proprietor or operator of the mobile
home park, signed by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1202; Ord. 149, passed 4-29-2008, Art. X)
§ 1204 Issuance of Permits and Occupancy Certificates.
   1.   Zoning permits shall be granted or refused after a complete written
application has been filed with the Zoning Officer; provided, that nothing
contained in this Ordinance shall be construed to require or empower the Zoning
Officer to grant a permit approving construction on, or use of, land which has
been subdivided into lots pursuant to a plan of subdivision, the plan and
profile of which have not been approved by the Township Board of Supervisors,
and duly recorded, as required by law.
   2.   Upon completion of the erection or alteration of any building or
portion thereof authorized by a zoning permit, and prior to occupancy and/or
use, the holder of such permit shall notify the Zoning Officer of such
completion. No permit shall be considered complete or permanently effective
until the Zoning Officer has certified that the work has been inspected and
approved as being in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance and other
applicable ordinances and regulations. All applications with accompanying plans
and documents shall become and be preserved as a public record, subject to the
disposition of the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   Certificate of Occupancy Requirements.
      A.   No structure, building or any part thereof, nor any dwelling unit,
shall be occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by
the Zoning Officer of the Township.
      B.   The certificate of occupancy shall state the use to which the
structure, building, or dwelling unit is to be put. No change in the use or
ownership of any structure, building, or dwelling unit shall be made until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued. It shall be the duty of any person
who shall sell or otherwise transfer ownership of any structure, building or
dwelling unit to another person to apply for and obtain a certificate of
occupancy required by this Ordinance prior to such transfer of ownership and
any use or occupancy of such premises; provided, however, that the failure on
the part of such seller or transferor to obtain such certificate shall not
excuse the purchaser or transferee of such premises from the requirements of
this Section.
      C.   Any certificates of occupancy issued hereunder may be revoked in the
event that the structure, building, or dwelling unit is determined to be unsafe
or uninhabitable or that a condition exists that is in violation of any
ordinance of the Township or that the actual use is in violation of any
ordinances of the Township. In the event that such certificate of occupancy is
issued subject to conditions, such certificate may be revoked if such
conditions remain unsatisfied within the time limit provided for at the time of
issuance of such conditional certificate.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1203)
§ 1205 Fees.
   Fees for permits shall be paid in accordance with a fee schedule to be
adopted by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and all such fees shall be
paid into the Township Treasury. Each applicant for an appeal, special
exception, variance, conditional use, or other requested relief shall, at the
time of making application, pay a fee, in accordance with the aforementioned
fee schedule, for the cost of advertising, mailing notices, and cost of
stenographic services, and other expenses as authorized under State law, as
required by this Ordinance and any applicable rules of the Zoning Hearing
Board.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1204)
Article 13
Amendments, Remedies, Penalties, and Complaints
§ 1301 Power of Amendment.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors may from time to time amend this Ordinance,
including the Zoning Map (
Appendix C).
   2.   Proposals for amendment, supplement, change, or modification or repeal
may be initiated by the Board of Supervisors on its own motion, the Township
Planning Commission, or by petition by one or more owners of property to be
affected by the proposed amendment. Any proposed amendment favorably acted upon
shall be specifically found to be in accordance with the spirit and intent of
the community development objectives of the Township Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1300)
§ 1302 Public Hearings Prior to Amendment.
   1.   Before voting on the enactment of any amendment, the Board of
Supervisors shall hold a public hearing pursuant to public notice. Public
notice shall be as defined by the State Municipalities Planning Code. (Note: As
of the enactment date of this Ordinance, such provisions were in § 610 of such
Act, and in the definition of public notice.)
   2.   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially or is revised to include land previously not
affected by it, the Board of Supervisors shall hold another public hearing
pursuant to public notice before proceeding to vote on the amendment. In the
event substantial amendments are made in the proposed ordinance or amendment,
before voting upon enactment, the Board of Supervisors shall at least 10 days
prior to enactment re-advertise, in one newspaper of general circulation in the
Township, a brief summary setting forth all the provisions in reasonable detail
together with a summary of the amendments.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1301)
§ 1303 Private Petition for Amendment.
   Every application for amendment of the zoning ordinance shall first be
presented to the Township Secretary and shall contain the following:
      A.   The applicant’s name and address and his representative and the
interest of every person represented in the application.
      B.   A plan showing the extent of the area to be rezoned, streets
bounding and intersecting the area, land use and zoning classification of
abutting districts, and photographs of the area to be rezoned and abutting
areas.
      C.   A statement of the circumstances in the proposed district and the
abutting districts and any other factors on which the applicant relies as
reasons for supporting the proposed rezoning.
      D.   The approximate time schedule for the beginning and completion of
development in the area.
      E.   A site plan to scale indicating the location of structures, uses,
areas for off-street parking and loading.
      F.   Information about the market area to be served by the proposed
development, if a commercial use, including population, effective demand for
proposed business facilities, and any other information describing the
relationship of the proposed development to the needs of the market area as the
Zoning Officer, planning commission, or Board of Supervisors may prescribe.
      G.   A traffic impact study prepared in accordance with the guidelines
found in the Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1302)
§ 1304 Submission to the Township Planning Commission and County Planning
Commission.
   1.   In case of an amendment other than one prepared by the Township
Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors shall submit each such amendment
to the Township Planning Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing in
order to provide the Planning Commission an opportunity to submit
recommendations. At least 30 days prior to the hearing on the proposed
amendment the Township Planning Commission shall submit the proposed amendment
to the Bucks County Planning Commission for recommendations.
   2.   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to the zoning
ordinance shall be forwarded to the County Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1303)
§ 1305 Proposals by Private Curative Amendment.
   1.   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of a zoning ordinance or map or any provisions thereof, which
prohibits or restricts the use or development of land in which he has an
interest may submit a curative amendment to the Board of Supervisors with a
written request that his challenge and proposed amendment be heard and decided
as provided in § 916.1 of the Municipalities Planning Code as amended. The
Board of Supervisors shall commence a hearing thereon within 60 days of the
request as provided in § 916.1 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended. The curative amendment and challenge shall be referred to the
Township Planning Commission and notice of the hearing thereon shall be given
as provided by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
   2.   Procedures for the public hearing as set forth on § 609.1 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, shall be followed.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1304)
§ 1306 Municipal Curative Amendment.
   If the Township determines that its zoning ordinance or any portion thereof
is substantially invalid, it shall follow the procedures as set forth in §
609.2 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1305)
§ 1307 Enforcement.
   1.   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of Springfield Township’s Zoning
Ordinance, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the Township, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus all court
costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the Township as a result
thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or payable until the
date of the determination of a violation by the magisterial district judge. If
the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the municipality
may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation,
unless the magisterial district judge determining that there has been a
violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the person,
partnership or corporation violating the ordinance to have believed that there
was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been only
one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the determination
of a violation by the magisterial district judge and thereafter each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. All judgments, costs
and reasonable attorney fees collected for the violation of zoning ordinances
shall be paid over to Springfield Township.
   2.   Such judgment shall be entered after suit before the magisterial judge.
   3.   Enforcement proceedings against violations of this Ordinance shall be
commenced by sending an enforcement notice as provided in this Section.
      A.   The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record of the
parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed a
written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that parcel, and to
any other person requested in writing by the owner of record.
      B.   The enforcement notice shall state at least the following:
         (1)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against
whom the Township intends to take action.
         (2)   The location of the property in violation.
         (3)   The specific violation with a description of the requirements
which have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of
the ordinance.
         (4)   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced
and the date before which the steps must be completed.
         (5)   That the recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the
zoning hearing board within a prescribed period of time in accordance with
procedures set forth in the ordinance, and possible sanctions clearly
described.
         (6)   That failure to comply with the notice within the time
specified, unless extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a
violation.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1306)
§ 1308 Complaints of Violations.
   Whenever a violation of this Ordinance occurs, any person may file a
complaint with the Zoning Officer in regard thereto. The Zoning Officer shall
promptly investigate all complaints.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1307)
§ 1309 Appeals to Court.
   The procedures set forth in Article X-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, as amended, shall constitute the exclusive mode for securing
review of any decision rendered pursuant to this Ordinance or deemed to have
been made under this Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007, § 1308)
APPENDIX A: USES BY ZONING DISTRICT SUMMARY
This table is provided for general summary purposes only, and is not officially
part of the Zoning Ordinance. See the actual provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
to determine whether a use is allowed in a particular zoning ordinance, and to
understand the additional requirements and limitations upon that use. If a
particular field is blank, that means that the use is prohibited in that zoning
district.
P   =   Permitted by Right
S   =   Special exception, requiring zoning approval by the Zoning Hearing
Board
C   =   Conditional use, requiring zoning approval by the Board of Supervisors
H   =   Permitted as adaptive reuse of Historic Resource (see
Section 514); not permitted otherwise
CH   =   Permitted as adaptive reuse of Historic Resource on grant of
Conditional Use (see
Section 514); no permitted otherwise
N   =   Not permitted
This Appendix A is available in PDF format for ease of printing, click HERE
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                 ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
A-1 Agriculture                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
A-2 Accessory agricultural sales                    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
A-3 Forestry                                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
A-4 Greenhouse                                      N  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
A-5 Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation           N  S  N  N  N  N  N  N  N
A-6 Kennel                                          S  S  S  N  N  N  N  N  N
A-7 Nursery                                         P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
A-8 Riding academy/boarding stable                  N  P  P  P  C  P  P  P  P
A-9 Accessory farm business. Note- certain uses are
permitted by right, while others are special        P  P  P  P  P  N  N  P  P
exception
RESIDENTIAL                                                          
B-1 Boarding house                                  N  N  N  N  N  CH CH CH S
B-2a Group home within a lawful dwelling            P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
B-2b Halfway house                                  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  S  S
B-2c Group home as land development                 N  N  N  N  S  N  N  N  N
 
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                 ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
B-5 Mobile (manufactured) home park                 N  N  N  N  C  N  N  C  N
B-6 Apartments outside of a Performance Subdivision N  N  N  N  N  P  CH N  N
B-7 Performance subdivision                         N  N  N  N  C  P  P  N  N
B-8 Private camp/cottage development                N  N  C  N  N  N  N  N  N
B-9 Residential conversion                          H  H  H  H  H  N  S  N  N
B-11 Single-family detached dwelling                P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  N
B-12 Single-family detached cluster                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  N  N
B-13 Subdivision creating large lots                N  P  P  P  N  N  N  N  N
B-15 Twin dwellings                                 N  N  N  N  N  P  P  N  N
B-16 Village house                                  N  N  N  N  N  P  P  N  N
INSTITUTIONAL & RECREATIONAL USES                                    
C-1 Cemetery, with a crematorium limited to the PI  N  P  P  P  N  N  P  N  P/S
District and needing special exception approval
C-2 Commercial school                               CH CH CH N  CH P  N  P  P
C-3 Day care center                                 CH CH CH N  CH P  P  P  P
C-4 Golf course                                     N  C  N  C  N  N  N  P  C
C-5 Hospital                                        N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  P
C-6 Library or museum                               H  H  H  H  P  P  P  P  P
C-7 Municipal facility                              S  S  S  S  P  P  P  P  P
C-8 Nursing home                                    N  N  N  N  S  S  S  S  N
C-9 Personal care facility                          N  N  N  N  C  S  S  S  N
C-10 Place of worship                               N  S  S  S  S  P  P  P  P
C-11 Private organization/club                      H  H  H  H  S  S  S  P  C
C-12 Recreational facility/community center         S  N  S  S  P  P  P  P  P
 
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                  ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                     WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
C-13 Primary or secondary school or college          N  C  N  C  C  C  C  P  P
C-14 Municipal passive recreation park [Ord. 176]    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
C-15 Detention facility [Ord. 176]                   N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  C
C-16 Continuing Care Retirement Community            N  N  N  N  C  N  C  N  N
OFFICES                                                               
D-1 Medical office or D-2 Office                     N  H  H  H  N  P  H  P  P
D-3 Veterinary office or clinic                      CH C  CH N  CH P  N  P  P
D-4 Office park/corporate center                     N  N  N  N  N  NN N  P  P
RETAIL & CONSUMER SERVICES                                            
E-1 Adult entertainment                              N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
E-2 Vehicle sales                                    N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  N
E-3 Vehicle repair, body/paint services or vehicle   N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  C
accessory sales
E-4 Car wash                                         N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  N
E-5 Convenience store, not involving sale of fuel    N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  N
E-6 Restaurant without drive-thru service            CH CH CH N  CH P  N  P  C
E-7 Restaurant with drive-thru service               N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  N
E-8 Entertainment                                    N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  P
E-9 Financial institution, may include drive-thru    N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  P
E-10 Funeral home                                    N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  P
E-11 Bed and breakfast if approved under §          N  CH CH CH CH P  C  P  P
514
E-12 Retail store-with a maximum building floor area N  N  N  N  N  P  N  C  N
of 15,000 square feet in the VC District
E-13 Mini-warehouse                                  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  P
E-14 Motel or hotel                                  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  C
E-16 Recreational campsites                          N  C  C  C  N  N  N  P  N
E-17 Repair shop                                     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P  C
E-18 Retail trade and service                        N  CH CH CH N  P  CH P  P
E-19 Gas station                                     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  N
E-20 Shopping center                                 N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  N
 
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                  ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                     WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
E-21 Parking lot or garage                           N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  P
E-22 Mobile home and accessory sales                 N  N  N  N  N  N  N  S  N
E-23 Tavern                                          N  N  N  N  N  C  N  C  N
E-24 Treatment center                                N  N  N  N  N  N  N  S  S
E-25 Betting use                                     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  N
E-26 Motor Vehicle Racetrack                         N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
E-27 Firearms Target Range                           N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
UTILITIES                                                             
F-1 Utility operating facility                       S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  P
F-2 Emergency services                               N  N  N  N  C  P  P  P  P
F-3 Passenger terminal                               N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
F-4 Essential services                               P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
F-5 Commercial communications antenna/tower, except  N  S  N  N  N  N  N  C  C
prohibited within scenic overlay district
F-6 Airport or heliport                              N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
F-7 Commercial solar-powered generating facility     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
[Ord. 173]
F-8 Commercial wind-powered generating facility      N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
[Ord. 173]
INDUSTRIAL USES                                                       
G-1 Salvage facility                                 N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
G-2 Building materials sales/equipment storage       N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-3 Contractor service                               N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-4 Food processing                                  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-5 Fuel storage and distribution                    N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
G-6 Manufacturing, other than types of manufacturing N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
that are listed as by right uses
G-6 Manufacturing, including only the following:                      
   a.   Food and beverage products for humans  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   b.   Apparel and textile products           N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
 
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                                     ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                                        WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
   c.   Paper, furniture and wood products, other than paper pulp NilN  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   d.   Assembly, packaging or finishing of products manufactured N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
elsewhere
   e.   Computers, electronics and electrical equipment           N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   f.   Transportation vehicles and equipment                     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   g.   Sporting goods, toys, games, jewelry, silverware, musical N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
instruments or signs
   h.   Medical and scientific equipment, supplies and instrumentsN  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   i.   Pharmaceuticals and medicines                             N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
   j.   Gaskets                                                   N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-7 Quarry [Ord. 144]                                                   N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C  C
G-8 Recycling facility                                                  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-9 Research                                                            N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-10 Solid waste facility                                               N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
G-11 Truck terminal                                                     N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
G-12 Wholesale                                                          N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-13 Warehouse                                                          N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-14 Printing                                                           N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-15 Planing Mill                                                       N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  P
G-16 Large Warehouse/Fulfillment/Distribution Center [Ord. 202]         N  N  N  N  N  N  N  N  C
ACCESSORY USES                                                                           
H-1 Accessory apartment                                                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  N
H-2 One dwelling in combination with a business                         N  N  N  N  C  P  N  P  N
H-3 Family day care                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  N
H-4 Home occupations other than permitted by right                      S  S  S  S  S  P  S  P  P
H-4a Home occupation, light                                             P  P  P  N  P  N  P  N  P
 
USE ZONING DISTRICTS
    WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
USE                                                  ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                     WS AD RP RR DD VC VR HC PI
H-5 Livestock & horses as an accessory use           P  P  P  P  P  N  P  P  P
H-6 Outside storage                                  N  N  N  N  N  P  N  P  C
H-7 Recreational vehicles                            P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-8 Residential accessory structure or use           P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-8a Outdoor Woodfired Boiler                        P  P  P  P  N  N  N  N  N
H-9 Spa/hot tubs                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-10 Swimming pool                                   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-11 Temporary structures and vehicles               P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-12 Outdoor Wood Fired Boilers                      P  P  P  P  N  N  N  N  N
H-13 Customarily accessory use or structure          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-14 Accessory solar-powered generating facility     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
[Ord. 173]
H-15 Accessory wind-powered generating facilities    C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
[Ord. 173; Ord. 203]
H-16 Accessory Geothermal Heat Pump [Ord. 203]       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
H-17 Emerging Alternative Energy Generation Systems  SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE
[Ord. 203]
 
(Ord. passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 144, passed 10-11-2007, § 04; Ord. 173, passed 1-
5-2015, § 02; Ord. 176, passed 1-5-2015, § 18; Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019; Ord.
202, passed 2-28-2023; Ord. 203, passed 2-28-2023)
APPENDIX B: HISTORIC RESOURCES LIST
This Appendix B is available in PDF format for ease of printing, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-63.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-65.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-67.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-69.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-71.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-73.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-75.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-77.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-79.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-81.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-83.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-85.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-87.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-89.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-91.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-93.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-95.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-97.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-99.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-101.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-103.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-105.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-107.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-109.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-109.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-111.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-113.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-115.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-117.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-119.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-121.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-123.png]
 
APPENDIX C: ZONING MAP
This Appendix C is available in PDF format for ease of printing, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1511.png]
 
APPENDIX D: SOURCE WATER PROTECTION MAP
This Appendix D is available in PDF format, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-133.png]
 
APPENDIX E: CARBONATE GEOLOGY OVERLAY MAP (Rev 0)
This Appendix E is available in PDF format, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac9b9c9fd217da439c6b967591c05c7f117b659b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1517.png]
(Ord. 191, passed 1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 155: RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
155.01   Short title
   
155.02   Definition of terms
   
155.03   Registration
   
155.04   Grant of ordinance; exemptions
   
155.05   Location of facilities
   
155.06   Standards of service
   
155.07   Rental
   
155.08   Insurance, indemnification and bonds or other surety
   
155.09   Enforcement and termination of ordinance
   
155.10   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Springfield Township Rights of Way
Ordinance".
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-2017)
§ 155.02 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meanings ascribed to them below. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   AFFILIATE. A person (i) with a direct or indirect ownership interest in the
subject entity of 5% or more or which controls such interest, including forms
of ownership such as general, limited, or other partnership interests, direct
ownership interests, limited liability companies and other forms of business
organizations and entities but, not including corporations, (ii) with a stock
interest in the subject entity where the subject entity is a corporation and
such stockholder or its nominee is an officer or director of the grantee or who
directly or indirectly owns or controls 5% or more of the outstanding stock,
whether voting or non-voting; or (iii) which controls grantee and/or is
controlled by, or is under common control with such person or entity.
   CABLE SERVICE. Shall have the same meaning as used in the Communications
Act.
   COMMUNICATION ANTENNA. Any device used for the transmission of radio,
television, wireless telephone, pager, commercial mobile radio service or any
other wireless communications signals.
   COMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended as of the
time of enactment of this chapter.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain a
facility in the public way.
   EXEMPT. A service which is provided to residences or businesses within the
service area, but which is exempt from the provisions of this chapter under §
155.04(B).
   FACILITY. Any tangible asset in the public way used or required to provide a
non exempt service to residences or businesses within the service area.
FACILITY includes poles, conduits, pipe and other structures or devices in a
public way.
   GRANTEE. A person who enjoys a non-exclusive privilege to occupy or use a
public way to provide non exempt service under this chapter and who is in
continuous compliance with this chapter.
   GROSS REVENUE. All gross revenue of grantee or any affiliate of grantee
derived from the use or occupancy of public ways for the provision of non
exempt services to persons having a residence or place of business in the
service area. GROSS REVENUE shall include amounts earned, regardless of: (i)
Whether the amounts are paid in cash, in trade, or by means of some other
benefit to grantee or its affiliates; (ii) whether the services with which the
revenue is associated are provided at cost or the revenue amount can be matched
against an equivalent expenditure; and/or (iii) how the amounts are initially
recorded by grantee or its affiliates. GROSS REVENUE shall not be a net of: (a)
expense, including but not limited to any operating expense; capital expense;
sales expense; or commission; (b) any accrual, including, without limitation,
any accrual for commissions; or (c) any other expenditure, regardless of
whether such expense, deduction, accrual, or expenditure reflects a cash
payment. Gross revenue shall not be double counted, viz., gross revenue which
has been included as gross revenue of both grantee and an affiliate but which
sum is included in gross revenue due solely to a transfer of funds between
grantee and the affiliate shall not be counted for purposes of determining
gross revenue.
   NON EXEMPT. A service which is provided to residences or businesses within
the service area, but which is not exempt from the provisions of this chapter
under §
155.04(B).
   PERSON. 
      (1)   Any natural person, sole proprietorship, partnership, association,
limited liability company, corporation or other form of organization authorized
to do business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
      (2)   Provides or seeks to provide one or more non exempt services to
residences or businesses in the service area. A governmental entity or a
municipal authority is not a "person".
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, unopened right of way, highway, turnpike, bridge, land path, alley,
court, boulevard, sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle, or
other public right-of-way held by the Township in the service area. PUBLIC WAY
shall also mean any easement now or hereafter held by the Township within the
service area for the purpose of public travel and/or for utility and/or public
service use dedicated for compatible uses.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land set aside for use as a street, alley, or other means
of travel as established by the Commonwealth or other appropriate governing
authority and currently in existence.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the Township, and shall
include any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means.
   STREET. A public or private way used or intended to be used for passage or
travel by motor vehicles. Streets are further classified by the functions they
perform:
      (1)   ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS.  Designed for large volumes of high speed
traffic with access to abutting properties restricted.
      (2)   COLLECTOR HIGHWAYS.  Designed to carry a moderate volume of fast-
moving traffic from primary and secondary streets to arterial highways, with
access to abutting properties restricted.
      (3)   PRIMARY STREETS.  Designed to carry a moderate volume of traffic,
to intercept rural roads and secondary streets, to provide routes to collector
highways, and to provide access to abutting properties.
      (4)   RURAL ROADS AND SECONDARY STREETS.  Designed to provide access to
abutting properties and to primary streets.
      (5)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  A secondary street parallel to and
adjacent to an expressway, arterial highway, or collector highway and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through-traffic.
   New development streets are classified as local streets unless a Traffic
Impact Study determines that they are streets of a higher order.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Springfield, County of Bucks, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, or the lawful successor, transferee, or assignee thereof.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.03 REGISTRATION.
   Each person, other than on a transitory basis, who occupies or uses or seeks
to occupy or use a public way to provide a non exempt service to residences or
businesses within the service area, or places any equipment or facility in a
public way other than on a transitory basis, including persons with
installation and maintenance responsibilities by lease, sublease or assignment,
must register with the Township. Registration is accomplished by filing with
the Township a completed Provider Certification in the form shown at Appendix
"A" to Ordinance 187, passed 10-24-2017.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.04 GRANT OF ORDINANCE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Grant. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any work on or use any facilities or any part
thereof in a public way unless in compliance with this Rights of Way Ordinance.
Continuous compliance with this Rights of Way Ordinance grants to grantee a
non-exclusive privilege to construct, repair, remove, relocate or perform any
work on or use any facilities or any part thereof in the public ways within the
service area and to occupy or use the public ways for the purpose of providing
non exempt service to residences or businesses within the service area.
   (B)   Exemptions. Except as noted in divisions (B)(11) and (B)(12) below,
this Rights of Way Ordinance shall not apply to occupation or use of the public
ways to provide:
      (1)   The transportation of passengers or property or both as a common
carrier by means of elevated street railway, inclined plane railway, railroad,
street railway or underground street railway, trackless-trolley omnibus or by
any combination of such means.
      (2)   The transportation of artificial or natural gas, electricity,
petroleum or petroleum products or water or any combination of such substances
for the public.
      (3)   The production, generation, manufacture, transmission, storage,
distribution or furnishing of natural or artificial gas, electricity, steam,
air conditioning or refrigerating service or any combination thereof to or for
the public.
      (4)   The diverting, developing, pumping, impounding, distributing or
furnishing of water from either surface or subsurface sources to or for the
public.
      (5)   The collection, treatment or disposal of sewage for the public.
      (6)   The conveyance or transmission of messages or communications except
as set forth in division (C), by telephone or telegraph for the public.
      (7)   The diverting, pumping or impounding of water for the development
or furnishing of hydroelectric power to or for the public.
      (8)   The transportation of oxygen or nitrogen, or both, by pipeline or
conduit for the public.
      (9)   Any ancillary service reasonably necessary or appropriate for the
accomplishment of services specified in one (1.) through eight (8.) above.
      (10)   Cable service.
      (11)   Occupation or use of the public ways by persons or entities
identified above shall be required to post a security bond or other cash surety
in the amount of 110% of the construction costs associated with repair and
restoration of the public ways as determined by the Township Engineer.
   (C)   Wireless telecommunication facilities not exempt. This chapter does
not exempt any person or corporation who or which furnishes, installs or
maintains wireless telecommunication facilities, including the installation of
communications antenna which are regulated pursuant to the Springfield Township
Zoning Ordinance ("Zoning Ordinance") as may further be revised in the future.
   (D)   Not a cable system. This chapter does not authorize a person to
provide cable service. A person seeking to provide cable service must obtain
permission from the Township under separate legislation of the Township.
   (E)   Not a pole attachment agreement. This chapter does not authorize the
grantee to attach to any pole or other structure in a public way, devices for
the intentional transmission or radiation of radio frequency emissions or
energy through the ether by any means now known or hereafter developed.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.05 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Installation of new facilities. Subsequent to the enactment of this
chapter all new facilities services shall be installed underground with the
exception of those facilities described in divisions (B) and (C) of this
section.
   (B)   Co-location of facilities. Facilities may be co-located on facilities,
including poles that exist on or before the enacted date of this chapter
including above ground facilities. Specifically, facilities may be co-located
within the rights-of-way of those roads described as arterial highways,
collector highways, primary streets, rural roads and secondary roads and
marginal access streets in §
155.02.
   (C)   Installation of new facilities on major roads. Facilities, including
poles, may be installed above ground subsequent to the enactment of this
chapter if they are installed within the right-of-way of those roadways
described as arterial highways or collector highways in §
155.02 above. No new poles shall be installed closer than 150 feet to an
existing or proposed pole location.
   (D)   Compliance with other ordinance requirements. The authorization of the
installation of facilities hereunder shall not exempt an applicant from
compliance with the requirements of any other ordinance of Springfield
Township, including the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.06 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions of street occupancy. All facilities and equipment installed
or erected by the grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as
to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use of public ways and with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that
adjoins any of said public ways.
   (B)   Restoration of public ways. If during the course of grantee's
construction, operation, and/or maintenance of its facilities and equipment
there occurs a disturbance of any public way by grantee, grantee shall, at its
expense, replace and restore such public way in accord with the specifications
set forth in Section 506 of the Springfield Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance. If grantee excavates the surface of any public way,
grantee shall be responsible for restoration of the public way and its surface
within the area affected by the excavation. The Township reserves the right,
after providing notice to grantee, to remove and/or repair any work done by
grantee which is inadequate. The reasonable cost thereof, including the cost of
inspection and supervision, shall be paid by the grantee. All excavations made
by grantee in the public way shall be properly safeguarded for the prevention
of accidents.
   (C)   Trees and shrubbery. The grantee shall notify Township and all
affected property owners regarding grantee's need to trim trees or other
natural growth upon and overhanging public ways so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its facilities or equipment. Trimming
shall be limited to the area required to clear its facilities or equipment.
   (D)   Safety requirements. All such work in the public ways shall be
performed in accordance with applicable safety codes and technical
requirements.
   (E)   Maps. Prior to beginning any construction of facilities, grantee shall
provide the Township with a construction schedule for work in the public ways
which schedule shall be updated as changed. Upon completion of initial
construction and upon completion of construction of any modification to its
facilities, grantee shall provide the Township with a map showing the location
of its installed facilities, in the public ways. Such maps shall be provided in
both paper forms, as well as in an electronic format for placement on the
Township's GIS system. Annually thereafter, grantee shall provide a map to the
Township showing the location of grantee's facilities in the public ways on a
scale of 150 feet per inch or whatever standard scale the Township adopts for
general use.
   (F)   Excavations. Grantee may make excavations in public ways for any
facility subject to obtaining approval from the Bucks County Conservation
District for design of erosion and sedimentation control measures to be
implemented during construction activity for those projects which involve 1,000
square feet or more of earth disturbance. Prior to doing such work, grantee
must apply for, and obtain, appropriate permits from the Township, and give
appropriate notices to any other licensees and/or permittees of the Township,
and/or other units of government owing or maintaining facilities which may be
affected by the proposed excavation.
   (G)   Reservation of Township public ways. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the Township or other agency of government or municipal
authority from constructing sewers, grading, paving, repairing and/or altering
any street and/or laying down, repairing and/or removing water mains and/or
constructing and/or establishing any other public work or improvement. If any
of the grantee's facilities or equipment interferes with the construction or
repair of any street or public improvement, including construction, repair or
removal of a sewer or water main, the grantee's facilities or equipment shall
be removed or replaced in the manner the respective Township or other agency of
government or municipal authority shall direct. Any and all such removal or
replacement shall be at the expense of the grantee. Should grantee fail to
remove, adjust or relocate its facilities by the date established by the
Township or other agency of government or municipal authority, the Township or
other agency of government or municipal authority may cause and/or effect such
removal, adjustment or relocation, and the expense thereof shall be paid by
grantee, including all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Township
or other agency of government or municipal authority due to grantee's delay.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.07 RENTAL.
   (A)   In consideration of occupying or using the public ways under this
chapter, grantee shall pay to Township a rental equal to 5% of gross revenue.
   (B)   The rental shall be assessed on a calendar quarterly basis and shall
be payable to the Township no later than 45 days after the expiration of the
calendar quarter for which payment is due. Grantee shall file with the Township
a complete and accurate statement, under notarial seal, at the end of each
calendar year quarter certified as true and correct by a representative
notarial seal, at the end of each calendar year quarter certified as true and
correct by a representative of grantee, authorized to make such certification,
explaining how the payment was calculated. In connection with the rental
payment due on February 14th, the grantee shall also submit to the Township, on
that date or no later than six months thereafter, a detailed statement by an
officer of the grantee certified by the grantee's independent certified public
accountant verifying the accuracy of the gross revenue and rental payments for
the previous calendar year, with a detailed breakdown and explanation of the
calculation by each month.
   (C)   Grantee shall keep accurate books of account which shall clearly
support the calculation of rentals and describe in sufficient detail the
amounts attributable to each specific component of gross revenue. Such books of
account and all supplemental information and source documents in support
thereof including, but not limited to, third party remittances and contract
documents, shall be made available to the Township and its authorized
representatives for examination at a location in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, at
any time during regular business hours on ten days' prior written notice and
from time to time for the purpose of verifying or identifying rentals owed to
the Township. Grantee shall exercise its best efforts to obtain financial
records of affiliates for the Township for the purpose of verifying the
accuracy of the rental payments. Township shall have the right to examine and
to recompute any amounts determined to be payable under this chapter provided,
however, that such examination shall take place within 48 months following the
close of each year. Any additional amount due to Township as a result of the
examination and recomputation shall be paid within 30 days following written
notice to grantee by the Township, which notice shall include a copy of the
examination report. In the event that said examination determines that funds
are owed to the Township in an amount in excess of 2%, the cost of said
examination shall be borne by the grantee and reimbursed to Township within 30
days following written notice to grantee.
   (D)   In the event that any rental or other payment is not made or the
requisite documentation and certification is not provided on or before the
applicable dates heretofore specified, interest shall be compounded daily and
set at the one-year United States Treasury Bill rate existent on the date
payment was due, plus three percentage points. Any amount recomputed to reflect
correct payment due shall bear interest as described from the date such payment
was originally due.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.08 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION AND BONDS OR OTHER SURETY.
   (A)   Grantee shall save the Township, its agents, employees and elected and
appointed officials, harmless from and against all claims, damages, losses and
expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, sustained on account of any
suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever arising out of the
construction, leasing, operation or maintenance of the grantee's equipment,
facilities, and services specified by this chapter, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed and/or prohibited by the chapter
and the rights granted thereunder.
   (B)   (1)   Grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect
throughout the term of this chapter insurance with an insurance company
licensed to do business and doing business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and acceptable to the Township. All companies will be required to be rated A-
VII or better by A.M. Best or A better by Standard and Poors. Grantee shall
provide Township with proof of such insurance so required.
      (2)   Grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at
grantee's sole expense, insurance coverage in the following types and minimum
amounts:
 
  Type                              Amount
a. Worker's Compensation & Statutory $ 100,000/$500,000/$100,000
   Employers Liability
b. Commercial General (public) - liability to include coverage for the
   following where the exposure exists:
   Premises operations
   Independent Contractors           Combined single limit for Bodily injury
  Products/completed operations     and property Damages $2,000,000 per
   Contractual liability             Occurrence or its equivalent
   Explosion, collapse and
   Underground property damage
c. Comprehensive Vehicle insurance coverage for loading and unloading hazards
   for:
   Owned/leased vehicles             Combined single limit of bodily injury and
  Non-owned vehicles                property damage $1,000,000 per occurrence
   Hired a vehicles                  or its equivalent
 
      (3)   The Township shall receive without expense copies of certificates
of insurance evidencing coverage stated above, prior to the commencement of any
work.
      (4)   Grantee agrees that with respect to the above-required insurance,
all insurance certificates will contain the following required provisions.
         (a)   Name the Township and its officers, employees, board members and
elected and appointed officials as additional insured parties (as the interests
of each insured may appear) as to all applicable coverage (except worker's
compensation);
         (b)   Provide for 60 days written notice to the Township for
cancellation, non-renewal, or material change, unless related to a non-payment
of the policy;
         (c)   Provide that all provisions of this chapter concerning
liability, duty, and standard of care, including the indemnity provisions,
shall be underwritten by contractual coverage sufficient to include such
obligations within applicable policies, subject to policy terms and conditions.
      (5)   Companies issuing the insurance policies shall have no recourse
against the Township for payment of any premiums or assessments which all are
set at the sole risk of the grantee. Insurance policies obtained by grantee
shall provide that the issuing company waives all right of recovery by way of
subrogation against the Township in connection with any damage covered by these
policies.
   (C)   (1)   Grantee shall obtain and maintain, at its sole cost and expense,
and file with the Township, a corporate surety bond with a surety company
authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the amount of
15% of grantee's estimated costs to secure grantee's performance of its
obligations and faithful adherence to all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   No action, proceeding or exercise of right with respect to such
bond shall affect the Township's rights to demand full and faithful performance
under this chapter or limit grantee's liability for damages.
      (3)   The bond shall contain the following endorsement: "It is hereby
understood and agreed that this bond may not be cancelled by the surety nor any
intention not to renew be exercised by the surety until 60 days after receipt
by the Township of Springfield, by registered mail, of written notice of such
intent."
   (D)   All expenses of the above-noted insurance and bond shall be paid by
the principal.
   (E)   The insurance policies mentioned herein shall contain an endorsement
stating the following:
   Should any policies of insurance be cancelled or coverages be reduced,
before the expiration date of said policies of insurance, the issuer shall
deliver 60 days advance written notice to the Township.
   (F)   Neither the provisions of this chapter nor any insurance accepted by
the Township pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the Township
thereunder, shall be construed to excuse faithful performance by the principal
and/or limit the liability of the principal under the chapter issued hereunder
and/or for damages, either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.09 ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF ORDINANCE.
   In addition to all other rights, remedies and powers reserved and/or
retained by the Township under this Rights of Way Ordinance or otherwise, the
Township reserves the right to bring a civil action to collect any sums due to
Township by grantee and/or forfeit or revoke all privileges of grantee under
this chapter in the event of willful or repeated violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.10 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances. The grantee shall at
all times be subject to the exercise of the police power of the Township. The
grantee shall comply with all lawful ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations of the Township, County of Bucks, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and
the United States of America which are now in effect or hereafter enacted.
   (B)   Conflict. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are in conflict
with other requirements of the ordinances of the Township of Springfield, the
most restrictive, or those imposing the highest standards shall govern.
Privileges granted by this chapter do not constitute a waiver or impairment of
the rights of the Township at law or equity now or henceforth existing to
proceed versus grantee for enforcement of the chapter or violation of this
chapter or ordinances of the Township.
   (C)   Effective date. This chapter shall become effective five days after
the date of its enactment.
   (D)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any
section, clause, sentence, part or provision thereof shall be held illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision of the court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining sections,
clauses, sentences, parts of provisions of this chapter. It is hereby declared
to be the intent of the Board of Supervisors that this chapter would have not
been adopted if such illegal, invalid or unconstitutional section, clause,
sentence or part of a provision had been included herein.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person which commits or suffers the violation of this chapter, shall,
upon being found liable in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
Township, pay a fine of $600 plus all court costs, including reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by the Township. A separate offense shall arise for
each day or portion thereof in which a violation is found to exist or for each
section of this chapter which is found to have been violated. In addition, the
Township also may enforce this chapter by an action brought in equity.
(Ord. 187, passed 10-24-17)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
 
Ord. Date Description
No.
     8-   Vacation of a portion of Haupt’s Bridge Road (T.R. 424), across Cooks Creek
62   25-  (C.B. 12).
     1987
     9-
104  24-  Vacating Hawks Mill Bridge and a portion of Shale Road.
     1996
     2-
108  10-  Vacating a portion of Walnut Lane.
     1998
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
92       12-10-1991 Granting a cable television system franchise to Service
                    Electric Cable T.V., Inc.
194      1-28-2020  Authorizing execution of a cable franchise agreement
                    between the township and Service Electric Cable TV, Inc.
                   
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
                    Authorizing the township to join with other local
94       1-28-1992  government units as a settlor of the Pennsylvania Local
                    Government Investment Trust for the purpose of purchasing
                    shares of the Trust.
185      12-7-2017  Inter-municipal cooperation agreement for Section 904
                    recycling grants.
                    Authorizing the township to enter into an intergovernmental
197      11-24-2020 cooperation agreement with Bridgeton Township to provide
                    for the sharing of road maintenance equipment and services.
                   
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cites Code Section
P.S. Cites                            Code Section
16 P.S. § 11011-6                    34.031
                                      151.001,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.          151.031,
                                      151.063,
                                      151.080
32 P.S. § 5007.1                     34.002
                                      51.02,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.            51.35,
                                      151.022
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001   51.01,
                                      51.04
35 P.S. § 691.202                    51.08
35 P.S. § 691.207                    51.08
35 P.S. § 750                        Ch. 153 § 521
                                      51.01,
                                      51.02,
                                      51.04,
                                      51.12,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.            51.16 -
                                      51.18,
                                      51.36,
                                      51.39,
                                      51.57,
                                      151.022
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through 750.20     51.35
35 P.S. §§ 750.7                    51.02,
                                      51.35
35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq.             91.01,
                                      91.20
35 P.S. § 4008                       91.24
35 P.S. §§ 4013                     91.24
                                      50.02,
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.         50.04,
                                      50.05,
                                      51.11
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 through 6018.10051.11
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq.         150.01
40 P.S. § 638                        35.01
53 P.S. § 891                        33.03
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.         50.02 -
                                      50.05
53 P.S. § 6901-24                    34.001
53 P.S. § 6913                       34.003 -
                                      34.005
53 P.S. §§ 6924 et seq.             34.053
                                      34.001,
                                      34.020,
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.         34.022,
                                      34.051,
                                      34.052,
                                      34.064
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.             34.033
53 P.S. § 7106                       35.02
53 P.S. § 10101                      Ch. 153 § 306
                                      51.02,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.            151.031,
                                      151.111
53 P.S. § 10202                      32.01
53 P.S. § 10209.1                    32.06
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.            34.020
53 P.S. § 66506                      91.01,
                                      91.20
53 P.S. § 66529                      91.01,
                                      91.20
53 P.S. § 66601                      10.99
65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq.              33.01
65 P.S. § 371                        30.01
65 P.S. §§ 767 et seq.              33.03
72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq.           34.028,
                                      34.035
72 P.S. § 8102-C.3                   34.024
72 P.S. § 8101-D                     34.020
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa.Code Cites Code Section
Pa.Code Cites                        Code Section
25 Pa.Code § 121.7                  91.24
25 Pa.Code § 123.1                  91.24
25 Pa.Code § 123.31                 91.24
25 Pa.Code § 123.41                 91.24
25 Pa.Code Chapter 71                Ch. 153 § 407
                                     51.02,
                                     51.06,
25 Pa.Code Chapter 73                51.12,
                                     51.13,
                                     51.17
25 Pa.Code Chapter 93                Ch. 153 § 202
25 Pa.Code Chapter 96                Ch. 153 § 202
25 Pa.Code § 73.11                  51.08
25 Pa.Code Chapter 102               Ch. 153 §§ 202,
                                     403
25 Pa.Code Chapter 271               50.02
25 Pa.Code Chapter 285               50.03,
                                     50.05
25 Pa.Code Chapter 285, Subchapter B 50.04
                                     151.022,
34 Pa.Code                           151.023,
                                     151.096,
                                     151.065
34 Pa.Code Chapter 14                112.04
34 Pa.Code Chapter 14A               112.04
                                     151.061,
34 Pa.Code Chapter 401-405           151.062,
                                     151.065
61 Pa.Code Chapter 189               70.06
67 Pa.Code Chapter 203               93.07,
                                     Ch. 153 § 506
                                     93.07,
                                     Ch. 153 §§ 202,
67 Pa.Code Chapter 441               403,
                                     512,
                                     513
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
 
Pa.C.S. Cites             Code Section
2 Pa.C.S. § 551          51.21,
                          111.07
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 751 to 754 51.21,
                          111.07
18 Pa.C.S. § 4903        91.99
18 Pa.C.S. § 4904        91.99
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seqCh. 72 Sch. IV,
                          Ch. 72 Sch. V
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Cites Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Cites               Code Section
3 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 501 et seq.  Ch. 154 § 517
18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3121 to 31.2111.04,
                              111.05
18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5901 to 5903111.04,
                              111.05
                              50.02 -
27 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6201 et seq.50.05,
                              50.99
42 Pa.C.S.A. § 6327          Ch. 154 § 404
53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 481 et seq. 33.04
65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq. Ch. 153 § 404
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq. 70.02,
                              70.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 102           Ch. 72 Sch. I
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b)       Ch. 72 Sch. I
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3362(a)(1.2)  Ch. 72 Sch. I
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902          70.02,
                              70.05
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(f)       70.02
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6103          70.02
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6106          70.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109          Ch. 72 Sch. I
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(E)       Ch. 72 Sch. I
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
97-5     6-10-1997   51.43
                     52.01 -
07-06    12-10-2007  52.07,
                     52.99
08-03    - -2008     52.01 -
                     52.07
11-162   - -2011     52.01 -
                     52.07
15-02    - -2015     52.23,
                     52.37
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed     Code Section
                         91.01 -
                         91.06,
–      - -             91.20 -
                         91.26,
                         91.99
101      - -             Ch. 72 Sch. I
1        2-7-1956        33.01
                         90.15 -
5        12-3-1959       90.18,
                         90.99
                         32.01,
6        5-8-1962        32.02,
                         32.04 -
                         32.06
8        12-12-1967      33.03
20       6-10-1975       Ch. 72 Sch. I
23       9-23-1975       153.01
31       10-26-1976      Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         52.35 -
42       10-29-1979      52.41,
                         52.99
44       8-24-1982       Ch. 72 Sch. I
45       2-22-1983       Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         92.01 -
47       10-23-1984      92.03,
                         92.99
51       5-13-1986       32.01,
                         32.02
53       9-9-1986        Ch. 72 Sch. IV
                         34.020 -
56       12-9-1986       34.035,
                         34.999
58       1-27-1987       Ch. 72 Sch. I
62       8-25-1987       TSO I
                         35.99,
68       7-12-1988       90.99,
                         92.99
                         150.15 -
74       8-22-1989       150.18,
                         150.99
                         34.001 -
79       12-26-1989      34.006,
                         34.999
88       12-11-1990      Ch. 72 Sch. II,
                         Ch. 72 Sch. III
90       7-9-1991        Ch. 72 Sch. I
91       12-10-1991      110.01 -
                         110.20
92       12-10-1991      TSO II
                         50.01 -
93       12-30-1991      50.07,
                         50.99
94       1-28-1992       TSO III
104      9-24-1996       TSO I
105      11-12-1996      10.99
106      11-12-1996      Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         51.35 -
107      6-10-1997       51.44,
                         51.99
108      2-10-1998       TSO I
                         51.55 -
109      1-12-1999       51.63,
                         51.99
112      8-10-1999       Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         70.01 -
115      9-12-2000       70.07,
                         70.99
117      11-7-2000       34.002
118      2-13-2001       32.20 -
                         32.23
122      2-11-2003       32.21
126      4-13-2004       32.20 -
                         32.27
127      6-8-2004        150.01
2005-131 - -2005         31.01 -
                         31.06
130      8-9-2005        Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         110.35 -
132      11-22-2005      110.38,
                         110.99
133      2-28-2006       33.05
135      11-14-2006      34.036
                         150.30 -
138      5-8-2007        150.34,
                         150.99
                         50.01 -
139      9-11-2007       50.07,
                         50.99
–      10-2-2007       154.01
140      10-23-2007      33.03
144      12-11-2007      154.01
                         34.050 -
145      12-11-2007      34.064,
                         34.999
143      eff. 12-17-2007 30.01
                         52.01 -
147      2-12-2008       52.07,
                         52.99
149      4-29-2008       154.01
150      9-23-2008       Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         90.01 -
151      10-28-2008      90.04,
                         90.99
152      7-28-2009       152.01
154      11-24-2009      154.01
157      - -2010         33.03
155      2-9-2010        33.04
156      4-27-2010       154.01
158      8-24-2010       154.01
159      9-14-2010       Ch. 72 Sch. I
                         111.01 -
160      11-9-2010       111.21,
                         111.99
161      8-23-2011       35.01,
                         35.99
                         52.20 -
2011-162 11-22-2011      52.24,
                         52.99
163      2-28-2012       153.01
166      8-27-2013       Ch. 72 Sch. IV
                         51.01 -
                         51.05,
167      8-27-2013       51.07 -
                         51.21,
                         51.99
169      11-12-2013      71.01 -
                         71.08
170      6-24-2014       154.01
171      6-24-2014       153.01
172      6-24-2014       153.01
173      1-5-2015        153.01
174      1-5-2015        152.01
175      1-5-2015        153.01
176      1-5-2015        154.01
                         151.001 -
                         151.007,
                         151.020 -
                         151.031,
                         151.045 -
                         151.049,
177      2-24-2015       151.060 -
                         151.066,
                         151.080,
                         151.095,
                         151.096,
                         151.110,
                         151.111,
                         151.999
178      2-24-2015       153.01
179      2-24-2015       154.01
180      3-24-2015       33.02
181      2-23-2016       Ch. 72 Sch. V
182      3-22-2016       Ch. 72 Sch. IV
                         112.01 -
183      8-23-2016       112.06,
                         112.99
184      9-27-2016       Ch. 72 Sch. IV
185      12-7-2017       TSO III
186      9-12-2017       152.01
                         155.01 -
187      10-24-2017      155.10,
                         155.99
190      6-26-2018       32.40 -
                         32.43
                         32.02,
                         34.999,
191      1-8-2019        Ch. 72 Sch. IV,
                         Ch. 72, Sch. V,
                         153.01,
                         154.01
192      2-26-2019       32.50 -
                         32.56
194      1-28-2020       TSO II
196      10-27-2020      51.06
197      11-24-2020      TSO III
198      7-25-2021       32.20 -
                         32.27
                         94.01 -
199      9-28-2021       94.03,
                         94.99
202      2-28-2023       154.01
203      2-28-2023       154.01
204      7-25-2023       Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2023-206 11-28-2023      Ch. 72 Sch. I
2023-207 11-28-2023      Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                         Ch. 72 Sch. II
208      10-8-2024       35.02
2024-209 10-22-2024      Ch. 72 Sch. I
                        
 
 
