SUMMERHILL BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-14-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption, and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, and statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION, AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for Summerhill Borough, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters, and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained, and enacted as a single ordinance of Summerhill Borough and shall be
known and designated as Summerhill Borough Code, for which designation “code of
ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
       (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neutral genders; words in the singular shall include the plural
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the borough adopting the Codified
Ordinances of Summerhill, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the Borough Code of
Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. Summerhill Borough, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Pub. Law 432, of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation,
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of Summerhill Borough, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Cambria, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs,
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent, or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the County of Cambria.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer as
appointed by the Borough Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the borough, including this code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic, or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY and BOROUGH SECRETARY. An appointed position charged with the
responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording and certifying ordinances;
attesting to the execution of documents; and is the custodian of borough
records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall not be a member of
the Borough Council and serves an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
Borough Council.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways, and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the
same as those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the
enactment of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and
resolutions, and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions
shall date from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   All the provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and
are hereby reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is
the intention of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the
code is hereby reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights, and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded, or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license, or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating, or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries, or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution, or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution, or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution, or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections, and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information, or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments, or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments, or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
    (B)   The Borough Agent or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Borough Agent’s office for public use, up-to-date. All changes in the
code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this code, which the Borough Council specifically adopts as part of the
code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the changes or new
ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code book and
inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof
determined illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division, or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the
borough and shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
         Statutory reference:
            Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby. Anybody violating this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $600, plus costs of prosecution or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire, or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air, or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $600 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance, or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines, see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOROUGH ORGANIZATION
      
31.   BOROUGH POLICIES
      
32.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: BOROUGH ORGANIZATION
Section
Officials
   
30.01   Secretary/Treasurer
   
30.02   Compensation for Council and Mayor
Planning Commission
   
30.15   Established
   
30.16   Composition
   
30.17   Duties
   
30.18   Use of funds
Volunteer Fire Company
   
30.30   Authority of Volunteer Fire Company
   
30.31   Providing services to other communities
   
30.32   Authorized activities
   
30.33   Revocation of the performance of duties
   
30.34   Revocation of responsibilities
   
30.35   Mutual aid agreements
   
30.36   Helping communities outside of the borough
   
30.37   Authority in other jurisdictions
Emergency Medical Services
   
30.50   Designating emergency medical services provider
   
30.51   Purpose
   
30.52   Collection of fees for services
   
30.53   Appeal of charges
OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   The offices of Borough Secretary and Treasurer may be held by the same
person.
(Ord. 2-1980, passed 5-13-1980; Res. 2022-10, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION FOR COUNCIL AND MAYOR.
   (A)   The compensation to members of the Council shall be $0 per month.
   (B)   The salary of the Mayor shall be $0 per year, payable in monthly
installments of $0 each month.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-4-2010)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.15 ESTABLISHED.
   The Council hereby signifies its intention and desire to organize a Planning
Commission under the provisions of the state’s Municipalities Planning Code
(MPC), Act 247 of July 31, 1968, reenacted and amended by Act 170 of December
21, 1988, Pub. Law 1329, being 53 P.S. § 10101.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 30.16 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of three members, all of whom shall be
residents of the borough. The term of office shall be four years and expire on
December 31. In the event of vacancies, Borough Council shall appoint a new
member to fill the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 30.17 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall, at the request of the Borough Council,
have the power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Prepare the Comprehensive Plan for the development of the borough
as set forth in the MPC and present it for the consideration of the Borough
Council; and
      (2)   Maintain and keep on file records of its actions. All records and
files of the Planning Commission shall be in the possession of Borough Council.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, at the request of the Borough Council, may:
      (1)   Make recommendations to Borough Council concerning the adoption or
amendment of an official map;
      (2)   Prepare and present to Borough Council a zoning ordinance, and make
recommendations to the governing body on proposed amendments to it;
      (3)   Prepare, recommend, and administer subdivision and land development
and planned residential development regulations;
      (4)   Prepare and present to Borough Council a Building Code and a
Housing Code and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments thereto;
      (5)   Do such other acts or make studies as may be necessary to fulfill
the duties and obligations imposed by the MPC;
      (6)   Prepare and present to Borough Council an environmental study;
      (7)   Submit to the Borough Council a recommended capital improvements
program;
      (8)   Prepare and present to Borough Council a water survey, which shall
be consistent with the state’s Water Plan and any applicable water resources
plan adopted by a river basin commission. The water survey shall be conducted
in consultation with any public water supplier in the area to be surveyed;
      (9)   Promote public interest in, and understanding of, the comprehensive
plan and planning;
      (10)   Make recommendations to governmental, civic, and private agencies
and individuals as to the effectiveness of the proposals of such agencies and
individuals;
      (11)   Hold public hearings and meetings;
      (12)   Present testimony before any board;
      (13)   Require from other departments and agencies of the borough such
available information as relates to the work of the Planning Agency;
      (14)   In the performance of its functions, enter upon any land to make
examinations and land surveys with the consent of the owner;
      (15)   Prepare and present to the Borough Council a study regarding the
feasibility and practicability of using renewable energy sources in specific
areas within the borough; and
      (16)   Review the zoning ordinance, subdivision and land development
ordinance, official map, provisions for planned residential development, and
such other ordinances and regulations governing the development of land no less
frequently than it reviews the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 11-9-1999)
§ 30.18 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may, with the consent of Borough Council,
accept and utilize any funds, personnel, or other assistance made available by
the county, the state, or the federal government, or any of their agencies, or
from private sources.
   (B)   The Borough Council may enter into agreements or contracts regarding
the acceptance or utilization of the funds or assistance in accordance with the
governmental procedures of the borough.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 11-9-1999)
VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANY
§ 30.30 AUTHORITY OF VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANY.
   The Borough Volunteer Fire Company and its members be specifically
authorized to respond to all fire, emergency, and other calls on their service
within the borough.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 30.31 PROVIDING SERVICES TO OTHER COMMUNITIES.
   The Borough Volunteer Fire Company and its members be specifically
authorized to respond to all requests for and from other organized firefighting
or ambulance associations outside the borough.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 30.32 AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.
   The Borough Volunteer Fire Company and its members are hereby authorized to
engage in any training, maintenance, fundraising activities, or any activities
aimed at securing memberships or procuring equipment, when specifically
authorized by either the President, Fire Chief, Deputy Chief, Assistant Chief,
or any Trustee of the Borough Volunteer Fire Company.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 30.33 REVOCATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   Any member of the Borough Volunteer Fire Company is hereby authorized to
engage in the performance of any duty or activity authorized by an officer
unless such authorization as to a specific duty, activity, or as to a specified
officer has been withdrawn by the Borough Council in writing addressed to the
Borough Volunteer Fire Company. Such revocation shall not be effective until
after the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Borough Volunteer Fire
Company.
(Ord. 2-1986, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 30.34 REVOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Any member of the Fire Company is authorized to engage in the
performance of any duty authorized by an officer of the Fire Company, unless
such authorization as to a specific duty or as to a specific officer has been
withdrawn by the Borough Council in writing addressed to the President or Fire
Chief of the Fire Company.
   (B)   Such revocation shall be effective upon receipt thereof by the said
President or Fire Chief, irrespective of when the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Fire Company is to be held.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 8-10-1982)
§ 30.35 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The adoption of this subchapter shall be authority for the Volunteer Fire
Company to enter into mutual aid with any other volunteer fire company. Any
firefighter or ambulance personnel engaged in acts of mutual aid authorized by
an officer or other predesignated person of the Volunteer Fire Company actually
in charge of the situation shall have the explicit authority of the borough to
so act.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 8-10-1982)
§ 30.36 HELPING COMMUNITIES OUTSIDE OF THE BOROUGH.
   The Volunteer Fire Company shall not respond to disasters or conflagrations
outside of the borough unless requested to do so by the fire company in charge
of the area unless requested as part of disaster preplanning.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 8-10-1982)
§ 30.37 AUTHORITY IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   Any Volunteer Fire Company firefighters or ambulance personnel located at
the scene of any fire, accident, emergency, disaster, or conflagration may
engage in mutual aid or individual actions without the authority of an officer
or other predesignated person from the Fire Company, provided that:
   (A)   As soon as a primary protection provider arrives on the scene, he or
she seeks out the officer in charge of the situation from the primary
protection provider;
   (B)   He or she informs him or her of his or her name, fire company, and
level of training; and
   (C)   He or she notifies an officer of the Volunteer Fire Company or
prepares pre-established forms for such purpose immediately upon return to the
borough.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 8-10-1982)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 30.50 DESIGNATING EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDER.
   The borough, in the interest of public safety, hereby designates the Forest
Hills Area Ambulance Association, Inc. as the primary provider of Emergency
Medical Services and the borough’s Volunteer Fire Department as the primary
provider of Fire and Rescue Services for the borough.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 30.51 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the municipality to ensure the safety of borough
residents by providing responsible entities to assure accountability and
effective emergency medical, fire, and rescue services to the residents.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 30.52 COLLECTION OF FEES FOR SERVICES.
   The borough hereby authorizes Forest Hills Area Ambulance Association, Inc.
and the borough’s Volunteer Fire Department to collect from third-parties
(e.g., insurance carriers) for the use of their services as a result of their
calls, including, but not limited to, medical emergencies, vehicle accidents,
vehicle fires, structure fires, and hazardous materials, sums sufficient to
reimburse the departments in full for expenses, time, and materials in
responding to any such calls.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 30.53 APPEAL OF CHARGES.
   Emergency services recipients questioning the reasonableness or right to
collect any charge, which the borough’s Fire Department assessed may appeal to
the Borough Council under provisions of the state’s Local Public Agency Law,
being 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 and 751, within 30 days of receipt of the assessment.
Failure to so appeal within 30 days shall constitute a waiver of the
recipient’s right to contest the charge. Charges incurred hereunder may be
collected directly by the Emergency Service Provider at the District
Magistrate’s Office by prosecuting an action in the name of the borough.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 31: BOROUGH POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   National Incident Management System
   
31.02   County Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
31.03   Emergency Operations Plan
   
31.04   Comprehensive Plan
   
31.05   Fee schedule
§ 31.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Borough Council hereby mandates the National Incident Management System
be utilized for all incident management in the borough.
(Res. 4-2006, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 31.02 COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The county’s Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the Official
Hazard Mitigation Plan of the borough.
   (B)   The respective officials and agencies identified in the implementation
strategy of the county’s Hazard Mitigation Plan are hereby directed to
implement the recommended activities assigned to them.
(Res. 2022-12, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 31.03 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   The borough’s Emergency Operations Plan has been developed to outline basic
operations and procedures to be implemented in the event of an incident either
human-made or natural that requires a coordinated response and is hereby
adopted by the borough.
(Res. 1-2013, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 31.04 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
    The Borough Council adopts the Forest Hills Regional Multi-Municipal
Comprehensive Plan as attached to Resolution 1-2010, as pursuant to Article III
and Article XI of the state’s Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §
10101.
(Res. 1-2010, passed 11-9-2010)
§ 31.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The governing body of the municipality hereby adopts and approves the fee
schedule for use by the Laurel Inspection Agency in all building permit related
matters carried out by Laurel Inspection Agency in the municipality.
(Res. passed 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 32: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Cost collection schedule adopted
   
32.002   Representative to communicate with Tax Collector
Real Property Tax
   
32.015   Tax rate
   
32.016   Additional charges
Realty Transfer Tax
   
32.030   Short title
   
32.031   Authority
   
32.032   Definitions
   
32.033   Imposition of tax; interest
   
32.034   Documents relating to associations and corporations
   
32.035   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
32.036   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   
32.037   Statement of value
   
32.038   Civil penalties
   
32.039   Lien
   
32.040   Enforcement
   
32.041   Regulations
   
32.042   Tax certifications
Earned Income Tax
   
32.055   Authorization
   
32.056   Incorporation of state law
   
32.057   Imposition of tax
   
32.058   Administration; powers and duties of officer
   
32.059   Definitions
   
32.060   Tax imposed
   
32.061   Net profits
   
32.062   Annual earned income tax return
   
32.063   Collection at source
   
32.064   Powers and duties of officer
   
32.065   Compensation of income tax officer
   
32.066   Suit for collection of tax
   
32.067   Interest and penalties
   
32.068   Distress and sale of goods and chattels of taxpayer
   
32.069   Collection of delinquent earned income tax from employers and the like
   
32.070   Collection of delinquent earned income taxes from the state
Per Capita Tax
   
32.085   Definitions
   
32.086   Imposition of tax
   
32.087   Collected by Tax Collector
   
32.088   Tax Collector
   
32.089   Warrant for collection
   
32.090   Payment of expenses
   
32.091   Notice to taxpayers
   
32.092   Ensuring that all citizens are included on tax documents
   
32.093   Discounts and penalties for timing of payment
   
32.094   Collection of tax
 
   
32.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 COST COLLECTION SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
    (A)   The borough approves and adopts the Cost of Collection Schedule
attached to Resolution 2-2011 to be imposed by its local Tax Collector upon any
taxpayer whose taxes are or become delinquent and/or remain due and unpaid.
   (B)   The local Tax Collector is authorized to retain said costs of
collection set forth in the schedule incurred in recovering delinquent taxes
and assessed to the delinquent taxpayer as allowed by law.
(Res. 2-2011, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 32.002 REPRESENTATIVE TO COMMUNICATE WITH TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The borough hereby appoints the Council President and Secretary as its
authorized representative to make requests upon and receive any and all tax
information and records from local Tax Collector, relative to the collection of
taxes for the borough, as desired and deemed necessary by the Council President
and Secretary, to be used for official purposes only.
   (B)   The local Tax Collector is hereby directed to provide and/or transmit
any and all tax information and records, or any portion thereof, relating to
the collection of taxes for the Council President and Secretary, upon request,
to the Council President and Secretary as the authorized contact representative
for it.
   (C)   The borough hereby saves harmless, indemnifies, and/or absolves its
local Tax Collector from and against any and all liability in connection with
the release of said confidential information.
(Res. 3-2011, passed 10-11-2011; Res. 2022-04, passed 6-21-2022)
REAL PROPERTY TAX
§ 32.015 TAX RATE.
    A tax is hereby levied on all real property within the borough subject to
taxation as follows. Tax rate for general purposes, the sum of 3.75 mills on
each dollar of assessed valuation, or the sum of $0.75 on each $100 of assessed
valuation.
(Ord. 2-1993, passed 12-14-1993)
§ 32.016 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADDITIONAL CHARGES. Any interest, fee, penalty, or charge accruing to and
in excess of the face amount of the real estate taxes, as provided in the real
estate tax notice.
      QUALIFYING EVENT. Either, for real property, the date of transfer of
ownership, or, for manufactured or mobile homes, the date of transfer of
ownership or the date a lease agreement commences for the original location or
relocation on a parcel of land not owned by the owner of the mobile or
manufactured home. The term does not include the renewal of a lease for the
same location.
   (B)   Directive. Effective January 1, 2023, the tax collector and the County
Tax Claim Bureau are hereby directed, pursuant to Act 57 of 2022, to waive all
additional charges for real estate taxes, if the taxpayer complies with the
requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   Requirements. The taxpayer shall provide a written waiver request of
additional charges to the tax collector in possession of the claim within 12
months of a qualifying event, attest that a notice regarding the applicable tax
was not received, pay the face value amount of the tax notice for the real
estate tax with the waiver request, and provide the tax collector in possession
of the claim with one of the following:
      (1)   A copy of the deed showing the date of the real property transfer;
      (2)   A copy of the title following the acquisition of a mobile or
manufactured home subject to taxation as real estate showing date of issuance;
or
      (3)   A copy of an executed lease agreement of a parcel of land on which
the mobile or manufactured home will be situated showing the date the lease
commenced.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 11-8-2022)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 32.030 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Realty Transfer Tax Resolution of
Summerhill Borough, Cambria County, Pennsylvania”.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.031 AUTHORITY.
   A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or any interest in real estate situated within the
borough, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed, or delivered, or where the actual settlements, on such transfer took
place as authorized by Article XI-D, “Local Real Estate Transfer Tax”, 72 P.S.
§§ 8101-D et seq.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.032 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this state, the United
States, or any other state, territory, foreign county, or dependency.
   DISTRICT. Summerhill Borough, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument, or writing which conveys, transfers,
demises, vests, confirms, or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real
estate, but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust, or other
instruments or like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release
thereof to the debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to
the grantee until the total consideration specified in the contract has been
paid or any cancellation thereof, unless the consideration is payable over a
period of time exceeding 30 years or instruments which solely grant, vest, or
confirm a public utility easement. DOCUMENT shall also include a declaration of
acquisition required to be presented for recording under §
32.037.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal decedents of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   PERSON. Every natural person, association, or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing fine or imprisonment or both, the term
PERSON as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   All lands, tenements, or hereditaments within this district,
including, without limitation: buildings; structures; fixtures; mines;
minerals; oil; gas; quarries; spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries;
trees and other improvements; immovables or interests which by custom, usage,
or law pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached
machinery and equipment in an industrial plant;
      (2)   Condominium unit; and
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust, or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including, without limitation, an estate in fee simple, life estate, or
perpetual leasehold; or
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which either, by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold, including, without limitation, leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting, or presenting for
recording of a document.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.033 IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   (A)   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts, or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted, or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for
and in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of
0.5% of 1% of the value of the real estate represented by such document, which
tax shall be payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for
recording or within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of
becoming an acquired company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds whereon the
date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax, and the signature of the
collecting agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations
prescribed in the Local Tax Enabling Act, Act of December 31, 1965, Pub. Law
1257, 53 P.S. §§ 6901 et seq. so that if any other political subdivision shall
impose or hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer then
the tax levied by the borough under the authority of that Act shall during the
time such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, be one-half of the rate and such one-half rate shall become effective
without any action on the part of the borough; provided, however, that the
borough and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same
person or transfer may agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates
to one-half of the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively
different rates, the total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted
under “The Local Tax Enabling Act”. If for any reason the tax is not paid when
due, any and all interest due shall be added and collected.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.034 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS AND CORPORATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
32.035, documents which make, confirm, or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders, or stockholders thereof are fully taxable.
   (B)   For the purposes of §§
32.030 to
32.041, corporations and associations are entities separate from their members,
partners, stockholders, or shareholders.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.035 PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate, or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax, and the sheriff, or
other officer, conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed out of
the first monies paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of
the sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser
shall be liable for the remaining tax.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.036 DUTIES OF RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   The tax imposed under §
32.033 and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected, and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (Pub. Law 1257, No.
511, as amended, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act), being 53 P.S. §§
6926.302 et seq.; provided that if the correct amount of the tax is not paid by
the last date prescribed for timely payment, (political subdivision), pursuant
to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and
directs the state’s Department of Revenue to determine, collect, and enforce
the tax, interest, and penalties.
(Res. 6-2006, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 32.037 STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   (A)   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true,
full, and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of
value executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction, showing
such connection and setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or
the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this
subchapter. A copy of the state’s Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value may be
submitted for this purpose.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any excludable real
estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on family relationship.
Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps shall be accompanied by
a certified copy of the document and statement of value executed by a
responsible person connected with the transaction, showing such connection and
setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or the reason, if any,
why such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.038 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by this subchapter is
due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50% of the
underpayment.
   (B)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this
subchapter on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such
failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the
amount of such tax if the failure is for not more than one month, with an
additional 5% for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.039 LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being, situated,
wholly or in part, within the boundaries of the borough, which lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or interest therein are described in or conveyed by
or transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed,
and levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax
under this subchapter is due and payable, and to continue until discharged by
payment or in accordance with the law. The Borough Solicitor is authorized to
file a municipal or tax claim in the County Court of Common Pleas, in
accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923,
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.040 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.041 REGULATIONS.
   The regulations which have been promulgated by the state’s Department of
Revenue under 72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq. are incorporated into and made part of
this subchapter.
(Res. 1-2006, passed 4-11-2006)
§ 32.042 TAX CERTIFICATIONS.
   The borough hereby appoints the locally-elected Tax Collector as the
municipal officer authorized to provide tax certifications upon request by the
public and hereby authorizes said Tax Collector to assess, collect, and retain,
as compensation for providing such additional service, a fee of $10 per year
requested.
(Ord. 2-2018, passed 7-10-2018)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 32.055 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Local
Tax Enabling Act, Pub. Law 1257, known as Act No. 511 of 1965, effective
January 1, 1966, as thereafter amended to in Act 166 of 2002 and Act No. 32 of
2008, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq. (known as the Local Tax Enabling Act and
herein referred to as the “Act”). The provisions contained herein are made for
the purpose of amending and supplementing Ord. 17-1966 adopted on April 12,
1966.
(Res. 4-2011, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 32.056 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The governing body hereby adopts by reference Act 32 (53 P.S. §§ 6924.101
through 6924.901) and its definitions, duties, directives, rules, regulations,
powers, and penalties as if same had been set forth fully hereto.
(Res. 4-2011, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 32.057 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax at the rate of 1% on each dollar is hereby imposed on all earned
income and net profits, as defined by Act 32, earned by residents of the
borough on all earned income and net profits earned by nonresidents of the
borough for work done or services performed or rendered in said borough. All
changes shall remain in effect on a calendar year basis without annual
reenactment unless the rate of tax is subsequently charged.
(Res. 4-2011, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 32.058 ADMINISTRATION; POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICER.
   The collection and administration of the tax provided for in this subchapter
shall be performed by the Tax Officer appointed by the Cambria County Tax
Collection Committee (CCTCC). Said Tax Officer shall receive such compensation
for his or her services and expenses as determined from time to time by the
CCTCC. Such Tax Officer shall administer, have the powers and duties as
provided for by Act 32 and the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Res. 4-2011, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 32.059 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other unincorporated
group of two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession, or any other undertaking of
an unincorporated nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for
profit whether by a person, partnership, association, or any other entity.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any other state,
territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   CURRENT YEAR. The calendar year for which the tax is levied.
   DOMICILE. The place where one lives and has his or her permanent home and to
which he or she has the intention of returning whenever he or she is absent.
Actual residence is not necessarily domicile, for domicile is the fixed place
of abode which, in the intention of the taxpayer, is permanent rather than
transitory. DOMICILE is the place in which a man has voluntarily fixed the
habitation of himself or herself and his or her family, not for a mere special
or limited purpose, but with the present intention of making a permanent home,
until some event occurs to induce him or her to adopt some other permanent
home. In the case of businesses, or associations, the domicile is that place
considered as the center of business affairs and the place where its functions
are discharged.
   EARNED INCOME. Salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments,
fees, tips, and other compensation received by a person or his or her personal
representative for services rendered, whether directly or through an agent, and
whether in cash or in property; not including, however, wages or compensation
paid to persons on active military service, periodic payments for sickness and
disability other than regular wages received during a period of sickness,
disability, or retirement or payments arising under workmen’s compensation
acts, occupational disease acts and similar legislation, or payments commonly
recognized as old age benefits, retirement pay, or pensions paid to persons
retired from service after reaching a specific age or after a stated period of
employment or payments commonly known as public assistance, or unemployment
compensation payments made by any governmental agency or payments to reimburse
expenses or payments made by employers or labor unions for wage and salary
supplemental programs, including, but not limited to, programs covering
hospitalization, sickness, disability or death, supplemental unemployment
benefits, strike benefits, social security, and retirement.
   EMPLOYER. A person, partnership, association, corporation, institution,
governmental body or unit or agency, or any other entity employing one or more
persons for a salary, wage, commission, or other compensation.
   INCOME TAX OFFICER or OFFICER. Person, public employee, or private agency
designated by the borough to collect and administer the tax on earned income
and net profits.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, except corporations, after provision for all costs and expenses
incurred in the conduct thereof, determined either on a cash or accrual basis
in accordance with the accounting system used in such business, profession, or
other activity, but without deduction of taxes based on income.
   NONRESIDENT. A person, partnership, association, or other entity domiciled
outside the Borough of Summerhill.
   PERSON or INDIVIDUAL. A natural person.
   PRECEDING YEAR. The calendar year before the current year.
   RESIDENT. A person, partnership, association, or other entity domiciled in
the Borough of Summerhill.
   SUCCEEDING YEAR. The calendar year following the current year.
   TAXPAYER. A person, partnership, association, or any other entity, required
hereunder to file a return of earned income or net profits, or to pay a tax
thereon.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.060 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   The following taxes are hereby imposed for general borough purposes:
      (1)   0.5% of all compensation paid after July 1, 1966 to residents;
      (2)   0.05% of all compensation paid after July 1, 1966 to nonresidents
for work done or services rendered in the borough;
      (3)   0.05% of the net profits earned after July 1, 1966 of businesses,
professions, and other activities conducted by residents; and
      (4)   0.05% of the net profits earned after July 1, 1966 of businesses,
professions, and other activities conducted in the borough by nonresidents.
   (B)   The taxes levied under divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall relate
to and be imposed upon compensation paid by an employer or on his or her behalf
to any person who is employed by or renders services to him or her. The taxes
levied under divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above shall relate to and be imposed
upon the net profits of any business, profession, or enterprise carried on by
any person or owner or proprietor, either individually or in association with
any other person or persons.
   (C)   Such taxes shall be levied with respect to the compensation or net
profits levied during the calendar year for which such tax is levied; provided
that, where the fiscal year of a business, profession, or other activity
differs from the calendar year, the tax shall be applicable to the net profits
of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.061 NET PROFITS.
   (A)   Every taxpayer making net profits shall make and file with the officer
on a form prescribed or approved by the officer, an annual return setting forth
the net profits during the period beginning January 1, and ending December 31,
of the current year, and such other information as the officer may require, and
pay to the officer the amount of tax shown as due thereon on or before April
15, of the succeeding year; provided, however, that the return for the year
1966 shall be for the period beginning July 1, 1966 and ending December 31,
1966.
   (B)   Every taxpayer who discontinues business prior to December 31 of the
current year shall, within 30 days after the discontinuance of business, file
his or her final return as hereinabove required and pay the tax due.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.062 ANNUAL EARNED INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   Every taxpayer shall, on or before April 15 of the succeeding year,
make and file with the officer on a form prescribed or approved by the officer
a final return showing the amount of earned income received during the period
beginning January 1, of the current year, and ending December 31, of the
current year, the total amount of tax due thereon, the amount of tax paid
thereon, the amount of tax thereon that has been withheld pursuant to the
provisions relating to the collection at source and the balance of the tax due
or shall make demand for refund or credit in the case of overpayment.
   (B)   Every taxpayer who is employed for a salary, wage, commission, or
other compensation and who received any earned income not subject to the
provisions relating to collection at source shall make and file with the
officer, on a form prescribed or approved by the officer, a quarterly return on
or before April 30 of the current year, July 31 of the current year, October 31
of the current year, and January 31 of the succeeding year, setting forth the
aggregate amount of earned income not subject to withholding by him or her
during the three-month periods ending March 31 of the current year, June 30 of
the current year, September 30 of the current year, and December 31 of the
current year, respectively, and subject to tax, together with such other
information as the officer may require.
   (C)   Every taxpayer making such return shall, at the time of filing
thereof, pay to the officer the amount of tax shown as due thereon.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.063 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse,
or other place of business within the borough who employs one or more persons,
other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation, who has not previously registered, shall, within 15 days after
becoming an employer, register with the officer his or her name and address and
such other information as the officer may require.
   (B)   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse,
or other place of business within the borough who employs one or more persons,
other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation, shall deduct at the time of payment thereof, the tax imposed by
this subchapter on the earned income due to his or her employee or employees,
and shall, on or before April 30 of the current year, July 31 of the current
year, October 31 of the current year, and January 31 of the succeeding year,
file a return and pay to the officer the amount of taxes deducted during the
preceding three-month periods ending March 31 of the current year, June 30 of
the current year, September 30 of the current year, and December 31 of the
current year, respectively. Such return unless otherwise agreed upon between
the officer and employer shall show the name and Social Security number of each
such employee, the earned income of such employee during such preceding three-
month period, the tax deducted therefrom, the political subdivisions imposing
the tax upon such employee, the total earned income of all such employees
during such preceding three-month period, and the total tax deducted therefrom
and paid with the return.
   (C)   Any employer who for two of the preceding four quarterly periods has
failed to deduct the proper tax, or any part thereof, or has failed to pay over
the proper amount of tax to the officer, may be required by the officer to file
his or her return and pay the tax monthly. In such cases, the payments of tax
shall be made to the officer on or before the last day of the month succeeding
the month for which the tax was withheld.
   (D)   On or before February 28, of the succeeding year, every employer shall
file with the officer:
      (1)   An annual return showing the total amount of earned income paid,
the total amount of tax deducted, and the total amount of tax paid to the
officer for the period beginning January 1 of the current year and ending
December 31 of the current year;
      (2)   A return withholding statement for each employee employed during
all or any part of the period beginning January 1 of the current year and
ending December 31 of the current year, setting forth the employee’s name,
address, and Social Security number, the amount of earned income paid to the
employee during such period, the amount of tax deducted, the political
subdivisions imposing the tax upon such employee, the amount of tax paid to the
officer. Every employer shall furnish two copies of the individual return to
the employee for whom it is filed;
      (3)   Every employer who discontinues business prior to December 31 of
the current year shall, within 30 days after the discontinuance of business,
file the returns and withholding statements hereinabove required and pay the
tax due;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in § 9 of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
being 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., every employer who wilfully or negligently
fails or omits to make the deductions required by this section shall be liable
for payment of the taxes which he or she was required to withhold to the extent
that such taxes have not been recovered from the employee; and
      (5)   The failure or omission of any employer to make the deductions
required by this section shall not relieve any employee from the payment of the
tax or from complying with the requirements of this subchapter relating to the
filing of declarations and returns.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.064 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officer to collect and receive the taxes,
fines, and penalties imposed by this subchapter. It shall also be his or her
duty to keep a record showing the amount received by him or her from each
person or business paying the tax and the date of such receipt.
   (B)   The officer, before entering upon his or her official duties, shall
give and acknowledge a bond to the borough.
      (1)   Each bond shall be joint and several, with one or more corporate
sureties which shall be surety companies authorized to do business in the state
and duly licensed by the Insurance Commissioner of the state.
      (2)   Each bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful discharge by the
officer, his or her clerks, assistants, and appointees of all trusts confided
in him or her by virtue of his or her office, upon the faithful execution of
all duties required of him or her by virtue of his or her office, upon the just
and faithful accounting or payment over, according to law, of all monies and
all balances thereof paid to, received, or held by him or her by virtue of his
or her office and upon the delivery to his or her successor or successors in
office of all books, papers, documents, or other official things held in right
of his or her office.
      (3)   Each such bond shall be taken in the name of the borough, and shall
be for the use of the borough, and for the use of such other person or persons
for whom money shall be collected or received, or as his or her interest shall
otherwise appear, in case of a breach of any of the conditions thereof by the
acts or neglect of the principal on the bond.
      (4)   The borough or any person may sue upon the said bond in its or his
or her own name for its or his or her own use.
      (5)   Each bond shall contain the name or names of the surety company or
companies bound thereon. The borough shall fix the amount of the bond at an
amount equal to the maximum amount of taxes which may be in the possession of
the officer at any given time.
      (6)   The borough may, at any time, upon cause shown and due notice to
the officer, and his or her surety or sureties, require or allow the
substitution or the addition of a surety company acceptable to the borough for
the purpose of making the bond sufficient in amount, without releasing the
surety or sureties first approved from any accrued liability or previous action
on such bond.
      (7)   The borough shall designate the custodian of the bond required to
be given by the officer.
   (C)   The officer charged with the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining
to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter, including provisions
for the re-examination and correction of declarations and returns, and of
payments alleged or found to be incorrect, or as to which an overpayment is
claimed or found to have occurred, and to make refunds in cases of overpayment,
for any period of time not to exceed six years subsequent to the date of
payment of the sum involved, and to prescribe forms necessary for the
administration of this subchapter. No rule or regulation of any kind shall be
enforceable unless it has been approved by resolution by the Borough Council. A
copy of such rules and regulations currently in force shall be available for
public inspection.
   (D)   The officer shall refund, on petition of and proof by the tax payer,
earned income tax paid on the taxpayer’s ordinary and necessary business
expenses, to the extent that such expenses are not paid by the taxpayer’s
employer.
   (E)   The officer and agents designated by him or her are hereby authorized
to examine the books, papers, and records of any employer or of any taxpayer or
of any person whom the officer reasonably believes to be an employer or
taxpayer, in order to verify the accuracy of any declaration or return, or if
no declaration or return was filed, to ascertain the tax due. Every employer
and every taxpayer and every person whom the officer reasonably believes to be
an employer or taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to give to the
officer, or to any agent designated by him or her, the means, facilities, and
opportunity for such examination and investigations, as are hereby authorized.
   (F)   Any information gained by the officer, his or her agents, or by any
other official or agent of the borough as a result of any declarations,
returns, investigations, hearings, or verifications required or authorized by
this subchpater shall be confidential, except for official purposes and except
in accordance with a proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law.
   (G)   The officer is authorized to establish different filing, reporting,
and payment dates for taxpayers whose fiscal years do not coincide with the
calendar year.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.065 COMPENSATION OF INCOME TAX OFFICER.
   The income tax officer shall receive such compensation for his or her
services and expenses as determined by the Borough Council. In the case of a
single collector established pursuant to subsection (b) of § 10 of the Local
Tax Enabling Act, being 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., the taxing jurisdictions
shall share in the compensation and expenses of a single officer according to
the proportionate share that the total annual collections for each jurisdiction
bears to the total annual collection for all political subdivisions in a single
collector district, except that with the agreement of two-thirds of all
participating political subdivisions, a different manner of sharing may be
substituted.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.066 SUIT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The officer may sue in the name of the borough for the recovery of
taxes due and unpaid under this subchapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought to recover the tax imposed by this subchapter shall
be begun within three years after such tax is due, or within three years after
the declaration or return has been filed, whichever date is later; provided,
however, that this limitation shall not prevent the institution of a suit for
the collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases:
      (1)   Where no declaration or return was filed by any person although a
declaration or return was required to be filed by him or her under the
provisions of this subchapter, there shall be no limitation;
      (2)   Where an examination of the declaration or return filed by any
person or of other evidence relating to such declaration or return in the
possession of the officer reveals a fraudulent evasion of taxes, there shall be
no limitation;
      (3)   In the case of substantial understatement of tax liability of 25%
or more, and no fraud, suit shall be begun within six years;
      (4)   Where any person has deducted taxes under the provisions of this
subchapter, and has failed to pay the amounts so deducted to the officer, or
where any person has wilfully failed or omitted to make the deductions required
by this section, there shall be no limitation; and
      (5)   This section shall not be construed to limit the Borough Council
from recovering delinquent taxes by any other means provided by the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
   (C)   The officer may sue for recovery of an erroneous refund provided such
suit is begun two years after making such refund, except that the suit may be
brought within five years if it appears that any part of the refund was induced
by fraud or misrepresentation of material fact.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.067 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of 6%
per annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 0.05% of the
amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof during which the
tax remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. Where suit is brought for the
recovery of any such tax, the person liable therefor shall, in addition, be
liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein
imposed.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.068 DISTRESS AND SALE OF GOODS AND CHATTELS OF TAXPAYER.
   (A)   The income tax officer shall have power, in case of the neglect or
refusal of any person, copartnership, association, or corporation, to make
payment of the amount of any tax due by him or her, after two months from the
date of the tax notice, to levy the amount of such tax, any penalty due
thereon, and costs, not exceeding costs and charges allowed constables for
similar services by distress and sale of the goods and chattels of such
delinquent, wherever situate or found, upon giving at least ten days’ public
notice of such sale, by posting ten written or printed notices, and by one
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county.
   (B)   No failure to demand or collect any taxes by distress and sale of
goods and chattels shall invalidate any return made, or lien filed for
nonpayment of taxes, or any tax sale for the collection of taxes.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.069 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT EARNED INCOME TAX FROM EMPLOYERS AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The tax officer shall demand, receive, and collect from all
corporations, political subdivisions, associations, companies, firms, or
individuals, employing persons owing delinquent earned income taxes, or whose
spouse owes delinquent earned income taxes, or having in possession unpaid
commissions or earnings belonging to any person or persons owing delinquent
earned income taxes, or whose spouse owes delinquent earned income taxes, upon
the presentation of a written notice and demand under oath or affirmation,
containing the name of the taxable or the spouse thereof and the amount of tax
due.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the presentation of such written notice and demand, it
shall be the duty of any such corporation, political subdivision, association,
company, firm, or individual to deduct from the wages, commissions, or earnings
of such individual employees, then owing or that shall within 60 days
thereafter become due, or from any unpaid commissions or earnings of any such
taxable in its or his or her possession or that shall within 60 days thereafter
come into its or his or her possession, a sum sufficient to pay the respective
amount of the delinquent earned income taxes, and costs, shown upon the written
notice or demand, and to pay the same to the tax officer of the borough within
60 days after such notice shall have been given.
      (2)   Such corporation, political subdivision, association, firm, or
individual shall be entitled to deduct from the monies collected from each
employee the costs incurred from the extra bookkeeping necessary to record such
transactions, not exceeding 2% of the amount of money so collected and paid
over to the tax officer.
   (C)   Upon the failure of any such corporation, political subdivision,
association, company, firm, or individual to deduct the amount of such taxes or
to pay the same over to the tax officer, less the cost of bookkeeping involved
in such transaction, as herein provided, within the time hereby required, such
corporation, political subdivision, association, company, firm, or individual
shall forfeit and pay the amount of such tax for each such taxable whose taxes
are not withheld and paid over, or that are withheld and not paid over together
with a penalty of 10% added thereto, to be recovered by an action of assumpsit
in a suit to be instituted by the tax officer, or by the proper authorities of
the borough as debts of like amount are now by law recoverable, except that
such person shall not have the benefit of any stay of execution or exemption
law.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 32.070 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT EARNED INCOME TAXES FROM THE STATE.
   Upon presentation of a written notice and demand under oath or affirmation
to the State Treasurer or any other fiscal officer of the state, or its boards,
authorities, agencies, or commissions, it shall be the duty of the Treasurer or
officer to deduct from the wages then owing, or that shall within 60 days
thereafter become due to any employee, a sum sufficient to pay the respective
amount of the delinquent earned income taxes and costs shown on the written
notice. The same shall be paid to the tax officer of the borough within 60 days
after such notice shall have been given.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966)
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 32.085 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COLLECTOR. Refers to the person designated by the Council of Summerhill
Borough to collect or receive the tax imposed by this subchapter.
      PERSON. Any natural person.
      RESIDENT. Any person domiciled in the Borough of Summerhill.
      TAXPAYER. Any person required hereunder to pay a per capita tax.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.086 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A per capita tax for general borough purposes is hereby levied and assessed
under the authority of Act No. 511 of 1965, known as the Local Tax Enabling
Act, upon each resident or inhabitant of the borough over the age of 18 years,
which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes levied and assessed by the
said borough pursuant to any other laws of the state.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Current state per capita/occupation taxes may yield higher rates than those
originally set in 1973; refer to Act 51 of 2019 and 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
for further detail.
§ 32.087 COLLECTED BY TAX COLLECTOR.
   Such tax shall be collected by the duly elected or appointed Tax Collector
of the borough in the same manner and at the same times as other borough taxes
are collected, as provided by Act No. 511 of 1965, known as the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.088 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Tax Collector shall give bond secured and conditioned for the collection
and payment of such taxes as provided by law for other borough taxes.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.089 WARRANT FOR COLLECTION.
   The entry of the per capita tax in the tax duplicate and the issuance of
such duplicate to the Tax Collector shall constitute his or her warrant for the
collection of the per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.090 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
   The expense of collection and compensation of the Tax Collector shall be
paid and allowed as provided by Act No. 511 of 1965, known as the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.091 NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS.
   The Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers of the amount of per
capita tax due under this subchapter at the same time and in the same manner as
provided by Act No. 511 of 1965, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.092 ENSURING THAT ALL CITIZENS ARE INCLUDED ON TAX DOCUMENTS.
   In case the Tax Collector shall at any time find within the borough any
resident or inhabitant above the age of 18 years, whose name does not appear
upon the tax duplicate, he or she shall report the name of such person
forthwith to the Assessor, who shall thereupon certify the same unto the
Borough Council, who shall promptly certify the same to the Tax Collector
reporting such name, whereupon the Tax Collector shall add such name and the
assessment of this per capita tax against such person to the duplicate of the
borough, and shall proceed to collect the same.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.093 DISCOUNTS AND PENALTIES FOR TIMING OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxpayers subject to the payment of the tax under this subchapter
shall be entitled to a discount of 2% on the amount of such tax upon making
payment of the whole amount thereof within two months after the date of the tax
notice.
   (B)   All taxpayers who fail to make payment of any such taxes imposed
against them for four months after the date of the notice shall be charged a
penalty of 5%, which penalty shall be added to the taxes by the Collector and
collected by him or her.
   (C)   The Collector shall furnish a receipt to every person paying such tax.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.094 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   All taxes levied under this subchapter, together with all penalties, shall
be recoverable by the Collector in the manner authorized by the said Act No.
511 of 1965, known as “The Local Tax Enabling Act”.
(Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails, neglects, or refuses to make any
declaration or return required by §§
32.055 to
32.070, any employer who fails, neglects, or refuses to register or to pay the
tax deducted from his or her employees, or fails, neglects, or refuses to
deduct or withhold the tax from his or her employees, any person who refuses to
permit the officer or any agent designated by him or her to examine his or her
books, records, and papers, and any person who knowingly makes any incomplete,
false, or fraudulent return, or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the
full disclosure of the amount of his or her net profits or earned income in
order to avoid the payment of the whole or any part at the tax imposed by §§
32.055 to
32.070, shall, upon conviction thereof before any Justice of the Peace in the
county, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 for each offense, and
costs, and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to be imprisoned for
a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (2)   Any person who divulges any information which is confidential under
the provisions of §§
32.055 to
32.070, shall, upon conviction thereof before any Justice of the Peace,
alderman, or magistrate, or court of the county, be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $500 for each offense, and costs, and, in default of payment of
said fines and costs, to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (3)   The penalties imposed under this section shall be in addition to
any other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
32.055 to
32.070.
      (4)   The failure of any person to receive or procure forms required for
making the declaration or returns required by §§
32.055 to
32.070 shall not excuse him or her from making such declaration or return.
      (5)   Any taxpayer convicted before any Justice of the Peace in the
county of failing, neglecting, or refusing to pay any tax, penalties, or
interest imposed under §§
32.055 to
32.070 shall be liable to a fine or penalty not exceeding $100, and costs of
prosecution and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment
for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Any person convicted before a Justice of the Peace of violating or
failing to carry out any of the provisions of §§
32.085 to
32.094; or of failing, neglecting, or refusing to pay any taxes or penalties;
or of attempting to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole or
any part of the tax imposed under §§
32.085 to
32.094 shall be liable to a fine or penalty not to exceed $25 for each and
every offense and the cost of prosecution thereof, and in default thereof, to
undergo imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days;
provided that such fine or penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed by any other section of §§
32.085 to
32.094.
(Ord. 17-1966, passed 4-12-1966; Ord. 2-1973, passed 2-13-1973)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   General administration
   
50.04   Pre-collection
   
50.05   Collection
   
50.06   Fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “the Garbage Disposal Ordinance of the Borough
of Summerhill”.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building used by three or more families living
independently of each other and containing dwelling units.
   BACKYARD. Any point or location other than as set forth in the definition of
curbside.
   BUSINESS. Any business of any nature operated within the borough, including
apartment buildings.
   CURBSIDE. A point bordering on the front street immediately adjacent to
premises of the owner or occupant.
   FAMILY UNIT. The residence of each separate residential household supported
and/or maintained by a person qualified as “head of household” under the
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, excluding apartment buildings.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of foods. It shall not include more than
a minimum of free liquids.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or corporation.
   REFUSE. Garbage and rubbish as herein defined.
   RUBBISH. All waste materials (including ashes) not included in garbage,
except building rubbish from building construction or reconstruction, street
refuse, industrial refuse, dead animals, abandoned large machinery or vehicles,
or such other waste materials as are not commonly produced in homes, stores,
and institutions.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 50.03 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be mandatory that all refuse accumulated in the borough
in family units shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the borough or
such private garbage collection service with which the borough may enter into a
contract for the collection of refuse within the borough, and the cost of such
service shall be paid for as provided in the schedule of fees, as amended from
time to time by the borough, by the person producing the refuse or responsible
for the existence or disposal thereof or for whom such refuse is removed.
      (2)   Final responsibility will be with the property owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, convey, or dispose of
any refuse accumulated in the borough in family units, except employees of the
borough or the contractor engaged by the borough, and in accordance with the
regulations contained in this chapter.
   (C)   The owners or operators of a business within the borough may arrange
for the removal and disposal of waste by the contractor engaged by the borough
or by private contractors and in accordance with the regulations contained
herein and provide verification of collection.
   (D)   Any refuse collected and disposed of from a business within the
borough shall be hauled in a power-compaction-type vehicle provided with a
tight cover and so operated as to prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom
and refuse from being blown, dropped, or spilled.
   (E)   The collection and disposal of refuse in the borough shall be under
the supervision of the Borough Council, who shall have authority to make
regulations concerning the days of collection, type and location of waste
containers, and such other matters pertaining to the collection and disposal as
they may deem advisable and to change and modify the same after notice as
required by law, provided that such regulations are not contrary to the
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PRE-COLLECTION.
   (A)   Yard waste. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings, and similar materials are
not classified as trash, garbage, or rubbish and shall not be deposited for
collection. The borough may accept the deposit of such materials at a location
as determined from time to time by the Borough Council for the purposes of
composting, chipping, or other appropriate use.
   (B)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   Garbage receptacles shall be made of metal or plastic and must be
watertight and be provided with a tight-fitting cover.
      (2)   Pending disposal as herein authorized, garbage shall be stored in
such limited quantities and for such limited period of time as shall ensure
that no annoyance, nuisance, or health hazard shall be created or maintained
thereby.
      (3)   No person shall use for the reception of garbage any receptacle
having the capacity of more than 30 gallons.
      (4)   All garbage receptacles shall be kept as sanitary as possible in
view of the use to which they are put and shall be thoroughly cleansed by the
occupant after garbage is removed by the collector.
      (5)   Rubbish receptacles shall be of a suitable kind, which can easily
be handled by one person.
      (6)   All refuse receptacles shall be provided by the owner, tenant,
lessee, or occupant of the premises.
      (7)   All refuse receptacles shall be maintained in good condition. Any
receptacle that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter or that may
have jagged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to hamper or injure the
person collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced upon notice.
Failure to comply may result in refusal to collect or the removal of the
defective receptacle as refuse.
   (C)   Storing of refuse.
      (1)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, or other
public place or upon any private property, whether owned by such person or not,
within the borough except that it is in proper receptacles for collection or
under an express approval granted by the Borough Council. No person shall throw
or deposit any refuse in any stream or other body of water.
      (2)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing
accumulation of refuse within 30 days after the effective date of this section
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the occupants of
the premises on which refuse receptacles are stored, or the collector, to
remove the covers or any of the contents of refuse receptacles.
      (4)   The container to be picked up shall be placed within five feet of
the curb or alley line, except for backyard pickup.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Refuse and trash shall be collected on a regular basis on the days
established by the Borough Council.
    (B)   For the borough’s annual spring trash collection, residents shall not
place trash at the curb or alley earlier than the weekend before the
commencement of the trash collection scheduled pickup date. There will be no
limit on the amount of trash a resident may put out. Containers shall be
limited to 60 pounds except for allowable appliances. Brush, limbs, cuttings,
and boards must be bundled in three-foot lengths. The following items will not
be picked up: refrigerators, freezers, and air conditioners (with Freon);
stones, rocks, and broken concrete; automotive parts, tires, and wheels; refuse
from repairs, alterations, remodeling, demolition, and/or construction of
buildings and other structures; explosives, highly flammable, toxic,
radioactive, volatile, or illegal materials; and paint.
   (C)   The quantity of refuse permitted for each family unit shall be four
cans or four bags of refuse per week, each can or bag to have a capacity of not
more than 30 gallons at the discretion of the disposal company.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to place, or allow to be placed, the refuse from
one premises at another premises for pickup; except that the resident owner of
a residential property may dispose of refuse from that property at a business
owned by that same resident and for which a separate contract exists for the
disposal of refuse.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for the collection and disposal of refuse, including
fees for incidental services, shall be as set forth from time to time by
resolution of the Borough Council.
   (B)   In the event that a dwelling unit is newly erected or occupied within
the borough during the course of the year, the fee for garbage collection shall
be assessed beginning on the first day of the billing period during which the
premises are occupied.
   (C)   In the event that a dwelling unit is vacated within the borough during
the course of the year, the fee for garbage collection shall be assessed
through the last day of the billing period during which the premises are
vacated.
   (D)   In the event of the failure of a resident to pay the garbage
collection and disposal fee established herein, the borough reserves the right
to stop the service herein provided for and to proceed to collect the unpaid
charge, including late fees, in the manner provided by law for the collection
of a municipal claim or by filing of an action in assumpsits for the amount of
said delinquency, plus legal interest thereon, plus any additional costs to the
municipality.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as principal, agent, or employee, violating or assisting
in the violation of any of the provision of the part or of any regulation made
by the Borough Council under the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction
thereof, pay a fine up to a maximum of $600, plus legal costs.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 12-13-2011)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Connection to sewer system required
   
51.03   Failure to connect
   
51.04   Alternative sewage disposal prohibited
   
51.05   Septic tanks and the like prohibited from connecting to sewer system
   
51.06   Procedure for connection
   
51.07   Compliance with regulations; expenses
   
51.08   Roof drains and the like prohibited from connecting to sewer system
   
51.09   Official plan adopted
Holding Tanks
   
51.20   Purpose
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Rights and privileges granted
   
51.23   Rules and regulations
   
51.24   Compliance with state law
   
51.25   Rates and charges
   
51.26   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
51.27   Duties of improved property owner
   
51.28   Abatement of nuisances
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 203. The Act of 1990 setting and establishing connection and tapping
fees for sanitary sewer systems, being 53 P.S. Ch. 14B.
   AUTHORITY. The Forest Hills Municipal Authority.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). The average amount of sewage flow expected
to be generated by a single-family dwelling.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any property located in this municipality used or
intended for use, wholly or in part, for the manufacturing, processing,
cleaning, laundering, or assembling of any product, commodity, or article, or
any other property located in this municipality from which wastes, in addition
to or other than sanitary sewage, shall be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any and all wastes discharged from an industrial
establishment, other than sanitary sewage.
   INFLOW AND INFILTRATION (I & I). Surface water and/or ground water which
enters the sewer system by any means. This subchapter expressly prohibits any
person from causing, allowing, or permitting any quantity of inflow and
infiltration to enter the sewer system.
   LATERAL. The part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the property
line, to a point designated by the municipality or authority, or if no such
lateral shall be provided, the LATERAL shall mean that portion of, or place in
a sewer which is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Summerhill.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation, or other group or entity.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
property.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating, and disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes situated in or adjacent to this municipality and owned by the
authority.
   WILDCAT SEWER. A sewer that provides collection but no treatment.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 51.02 CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All persons in the municipality owning property which is adjoining and
adjacent to the sewer system are hereby required to connect with and use said
sewer system. Failure to connect within 60 days after written notice to do so
has been provided, as defined herein in §
51.03, shall be a violation of this subchapter. Said connection shall be at the
sole cost of the owner. Any persons who cannot comply with the above
requirements due to causes beyond their control, shall apply to the
municipality or authority within said 60-day period for a time extension not to
exceed six months’ duration. Said application shall be made on a form furnished
by the municipality or the authority and shall contain an agreement whereby the
applicant voluntarily commences payment of the regular, monthly sewer rates
immediately, even though actual connection to the sewer system will not be
accomplished until some later date within the said six-month extension period.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   In addition to any other remedies provided herein, should any adjoining or
adjacent owners or persons whose principal building is within 150 feet from the
sewer system fail to connect with and use the sewer system for a period of 60
days after written notice to do so has been served by the municipality or the
authority, either by personal service or certified mail, the municipality or
the authority, their designated agent, may enter the property and construct the
connection. The municipality or authority shall send an itemized bill of the
cost of construction to the owner of the property to which the connection has
been made, which bill is payable immediately. If the owner fails to pay the
bill, the municipality or the authority shall, within six months of the date of
completion of the connection, file a municipal lien for the cost of
construction, plus a 10% surcharge thereon.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 51.04 ALTERNATIVE SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupier of any property adjoining or
adjacent to the sewer system to employ any means for disposal of acceptable
sanitary sewage (as determined by the authority’s rules and regulations) other
than into and through the sewer system.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 SEPTIC TANKS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM CONNECTING TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   No privies, cesspools, sinkholes, septic tanks, or other receptacle for
human excrement shall at the present time or any time in the future be
connected with the sewer system.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PROCEDURE FOR CONNECTION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall connect to the sewer system until the
following has been complied with.
   (A)   Application shall be made to the authority, as the municipality’s
agent, upon a form supplied by the authority for permission to connect to the
sewer system. A separate application form must be completed for each individual
unit intended to be provided sewer service and said application(s) shall fully
describe the character and use of each unit.
   (B)   Payment of the required fee imposed by the authority shall be made by
the owner for each EDU (equivalent dwelling unit) to be connected to the sewer
system at the time of making application therefor. The method of determining an
EDU and calculation of multiple EDUs is covered by the rules and regulations of
the authority.
   (C)   No work shall be done prior to the payment of said fee(s) and until
the applicant has familiarized themselves with the authority rules and
regulations relating to completion of an acceptable connection, including, but
not limited to, materials, fittings, installation, backfilling, inspection, and
testing, particularly as the construction relates to the elimination of inflow
and infiltration.
   (D)   At least 24 hours’ notice of the time when a connection is to be made
shall be given to an inspector designated by the municipality or the authority
so that said Inspector can be present to inspect the building sewer line and
connection. Such inspection shall include witnessing the testing as required by
the authority rules and regulations, as performed by the applicant and
determining that the connection complies with all requirements as to the proper
construction and elimination of all sources of inflow and infiltration. If the
connection passes all tests, the inspector shall signify his or her approval by
endorsing his or her name and the date of approval on the application in the
possession of the owner or occupier, said application shall contain language
that the owner understands, the requirement of elimination, and exclusion of
inflow and infiltration, and thereafter will not make any modifications to the
plumbing and drainage without the knowledge, inspection, and approval of the
authority.
   (E)   At the time of inspection, the Inspector shall be permitted complete
access to all sanitary and drainage arrangements and facilities in each
building and in and about all parts of the property in order to determine the
nature and extent of the piping network to be connected to the authority’s
sewer system. (No pre-existing drain piping may be connected to the applicant’s
new building sewer until such pre-existing piping has passed the required tests
as specified in division (F) below and the rules and regulations of the
authority.) No building sewer line shall be backfilled, or in any manner
concealed, until after approval by the Inspector.
   (F)   Testing requirements must meet or exceed those as contained in the
most current edition of the BOCA National Plumbing Code or the CABO One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code.
   (G)   No approved sewer may be extended, altered, repaired, replaced, and/or
tampered with in any way without notice to the authority. Subsequent to any
alteration of any sewer connection, retesting following the authority’s
requirements is required. In addition, retesting to ensure continued compliance
with the rules and regulations shall be performed at any time necessary based
upon inspections by the authority or municipality.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS; EXPENSES.
   The construction of all building sewer lines to the lateral of the sewer
system shall be done at the sole expense of the owner. Said construction shall
be done to eliminate all sources of I & I in accordance with the
specifications, plans, and procedures established by the municipality and the
authority as set forth in the authority’s sewer system rules and regulations,
as the same may from time to time be published and amended, copies of which,
upon adoption, shall be maintained on file with the Municipal Secretary and the
authority.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 51.08 ROOF DRAINS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM CONNECTING TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation connected to the
sewer system to connect any roof drain thereto or permit any roof drain to
remain connected thereto or to permit, allow, or cause to enter into said sewer
system any stormwater, foundation water, spring water, surface water, any
unacceptable sewage or industrial waste (as determined by the authority’s rules
and regulations), or any sewage or industrial waste from any property or
building other than that for which an application has been made.
(Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 OFFICIAL PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Borough Council hereby adopt and submit to the Department of
Environmental Protection for its approval as a revision to the “Official Plan”
of the municipality, the Facility Plan. The municipality hereby assures the
Department of the complete and timely implementation of the said plan as
required by law (§ 5 of the state’s Sewage Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750
et seq., as amended).
(Res. 1-2011, passed 6-14-2011)
HOLDING TANKS
§ 51.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of holding tanks designed to receive and retain sewage, whether
from residential or commercial uses, and it is hereby declared that the
enactment of this subchapter is necessary for the protection, benefit, and
preservation of the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of this
municipality.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Council of the Borough of Summerhill, Cambria County,
Pennsylvania.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site. HOLDING TANKS include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   CHEMICAL TOILET. A toilet using chemicals that discharge to a
holding tank;
      (2)   RETENTION TANK. A holding tank where sewage is conveyed to it by a
water-carrying system; and
      (3)   VAULT PIT, PRIVY. A holding tank designed to receive sewage where
water under pressure is not available.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the borough upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy,
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Summerhill, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the borough.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation, or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, to
animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.22 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES GRANTED.
   The authority is hereby authorized and empowered to undertake within the
borough the control and methods of holding tank sewage disposal and the
collection and transportation thereof.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The authority is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations concerning sewage which it may deem necessary from time to time to
effect the purpose herein.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.24 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the authority shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the borough, and
all applicable laws, and applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies of the state.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.25 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The authority shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge, and
collect rates, assessments, and other charges in the area served by its
facilities at reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by applicable law.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.26 EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any improved property
utilizing a holding tank shall be done solely by or under the direction and
control of the authority, and the disposal thereof shall be made only at such
site or sites as may be approved by the state’s Department of Environmental
Resources.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.27 DUTIES OF IMPROVED PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   (A)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this subchapter or any
ordinance of this borough, the provisions of any applicable law, and the rules
and regulations of the authority and any administrative agency of the state;
and
   (B)   Permit only the authority or its agent to collect, transport, and
dispose of the contents therein.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.28 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of §
51.27 shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated by the municipality or
the authority by either seeking appropriate equitable or legal relief from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any penalty hereinabove prescribed, any person or
persons failing to make a proper connection within the time specified after due
notice, shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with the state’s Rules of
Criminal Procedure for the enforcement of summary offenses. Upon conviction of
same, said person shall pay a fine not to exceed $1,000 and may be imprisoned
in the county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days. Each day or portion
thereof for which said violation is found to exist shall constitute a separate
offense hereunder.
      (2)   Any person or persons violating any other provision of §§
51.01 to
51.08 (other than a failure to connect) shall be prosecuted as hereinbefore set
forth and, upon conviction, shall pay a fine not to exceed $300 and may be
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days in the county jail. Each day or
portion thereof for which said violation is found to exist shall constitute a
separate offense hereunder.
      (3)   For purposes of enforcement of §§
51.01 to
51.08, the authority is hereby empowered to make the initial determination of
violation and is similarly empowered to serve the notice of violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
51.27 shall, upon conviction thereof by summary proceedings, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $300 and costs, and in
default of said fine and costs to undergo imprisonment in the county prison for
a period not in excess of 30 days.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed 5-13-1995; Ord. 2-1997, passed 12-9-1997)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Borough to provide electric power
   
52.03   Application; nontransferable
   
52.04   Location of service connection
   
52.05   Electric meters
   
52.06   Repairs to damaged property
   
52.07   Agents authorized on premises
   
52.08   Location of wiring
   
52.09   Supports for attachments
   
52.10   Subscriber responsibilities
   
52.11   Number of service connections
   
52.12   Inspection and approval
   
52.13   Employee compensation
   
52.14   Interference with equipment
   
52.15   Maintenance of equipment
   
52.16   Reselling energy prohibited
   
52.17   Interruption of service
   
52.18   Reasons to shut off supply of electricity
   
52.19   Application for service
   
52.20   Temporary service
   
52.21   [Reserved]
   
52.22   Billing
   
52.23   Notice of unsatisfactory service
   
52.24   Rates and charges
   
52.25   Payment for new installation of electricity
   
52.26   Electric and ancillary services markets
   
52.27   Solar panels
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In this chapter the singular shall include the plural
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSUMER. Any person who is owner or occupant of a specific property, now
being furnished with electric light and/or power by the borough’s Electric
Department.
      PERSON. Any natural person, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person who shall enter into a contract with the borough
for the furnishing of electric light and/or power from the borough’s Electric
Department to a specific property.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.02 BOROUGH TO PROVIDE ELECTRIC POWER.
   (A)   (1)   Electric light and power shall be furnished by the borough’s
Electric Department only under the rules and regulations as set forth in this
chapter and under contracts entered into between the borough and subscribers
thereof.
      (2)   No electric light or power shall be furnished to any subscriber
without a valid contract, as subscribed by the borough, having been entered
into between such subscriber and the borough. In entering into such a contract,
the subscriber shall agree to be bound by and adhere to all the provisions of
this chapter and to any special provisions inserted into such contract by the
borough’s Electric Department, because of special conditions and uses of
electric light and/or power by such subscriber in such premises.
      (3)   Any failure on the part of any subscriber to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or of his or her contract shall annul such contract
and the borough, without further notice, may thereupon cease to furnish
electric light and/or power to such subscriber upon such premises and may
remove any or all of its property from such premises.
   (B)   The borough, upon failure on the part of any consumer to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, may thereupon cease to furnish electric
light and/or power to the premises owned or occupied by such consumer and may
remove any or all of its property from such premises.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.03 APPLICATION; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No contract for electric service shall be transferable. In every case, a new
occupant of a property shall make application in writing at the office of the
borough’s Electric Department for a contract. Otherwise, he or she shall be
liable for all amounts due and unpaid for electric light and/or power furnished
to such property under the previous contract or to the consumer previously
owning or occupying such property.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.04 LOCATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION.
   The location of the service connection shall be as designated by the
borough, and the subscriber shall provide, free of expense to the borough, a
suitable place satisfactory to the borough for installation of transformers,
meters, and other equipment of the borough which may be necessary for the
supply of electric service contracted for.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.05 ELECTRIC METERS.
   (A)   Every electric meter heretofore or hereafter installed by the borough
on private property shall at all times remain the absolute property of the
borough, and the borough shall not lose title thereto by attaching it to real
estate. The borough shall not be obliged to test any of its meters more often
than once in five years.
   (B)   The borough shall have the right, at its own option and expense, to
place demand meters, reactive-component meters, or other instruments on
property of any subscriber or consumer, for the purpose of measuring the demand
and/or the power factor, or for other tests at all, or any part, of the
subscriber’s or consumer’s land.
   (C)   No person shall install any electric connection or contrivance on his
or her premises or upon property used by him or her for the purpose of
procuring electric current without registering the same on a meter, nor shall
any person knowingly use any such connection or contrivance. The borough’s
Electric Department, through any of its officers, employees, or agents, shall
have the right of access to any subscriber’s or consumer’s premises, at all
times, for the purpose of reading any meter, inspecting or repairing apparatus
used in connection with its service, investigating possible bypassing of any
meter, or removing its property.
   (D)   No person shall interfere in any way with any such officer, employee,
or agent while in the performance of his or her duties or exercising his or her
authority under this chapter.
   (E)   Each customer requesting service shall pay to the borough the sum of
$250 as a security deposit for the electric meter box to be installed by the
Municipal Light Plant.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963; Ord. 2-1991, passed 10-8-1991) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 REPAIRS TO DAMAGED PROPERTY.
   If any of the property of the borough upon the premises of any subscriber or
consumer becomes damaged in a manner other than by normal usage or act of God,
the cost of inspection, repairs, or replacement of such damaged property, or
any part thereof, shall be paid by the subscriber or consumer.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.07 AGENTS AUTHORIZED ON PREMISES.
   No subscriber or consumer shall permit any person, except an authorized
officer, agent, or employee of the borough’s Electric Department, to have
access to or do any work upon any meter or other borough apparatus or property
located upon such subscriber’s premises.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.08 LOCATION OF WIRING.
   The subscriber’s wiring shall be brought to the outside of the building at
an approved location in such a manner that it will be easily accessible for
attachment to the borough’s lines, and all construction and connections from
that point of attachment shall be at the expense of the subscriber, and shall
include approved type service entrance equipment, which may be sealed by the
borough and shall be accessible only to its authorized representative.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.09 SUPPORTS FOR ATTACHMENTS.
   The subscriber shall provide substantial supports for attaching the
borough’s service brackets to buildings. Such supports shall be at such height
that there will be a minimum clearance of 15 feet between the borough’s wires
and the ground, except in such instances where, at the discretion of the
borough’s Electric Department, a lesser clearance shall be allowed.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.10 SUBSCRIBER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   With the exception of metering equipment, the borough’s service
equipment shall, in ordinary installations, terminate at the service bracket
attached to the building.
   (B)   The subscriber shall pay for, install, and maintain all inside work,
including wiring, cutouts, fixtures, sockets, and lamps.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.11 NUMBER OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The borough shall not install more than one power service or more than one
lighting service at any one building, except where two or more separate and
distinct subscribers occupy the same premises, unless authorized by the borough
agents due to extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.12 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No person shall have electric current turned on or used in any new building
or in any building hereafter wired for electricity unless and until all the
electric wiring in such building shall first have been inspected and approved
in writing by the Middle Department Association of Fire Underwriters and proof
of such inspection and approval shall have been exhibited to the borough’s
Electric Department.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.
   No officer, agent, or employee of the borough’s Electric Department shall
demand or accept any compensation or reward from any subscriber or other person
for services rendered in connection with the electric system, it being the
intent of this section that all officers, agents, and employees of the
borough’s Electric Department shall be compensated for such services solely, by
salaries and/or wages paid therefor by the borough.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 INTERFERENCE WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall wilfully and intentionally interfere with or molest in any
way the wires or equipment of the borough, over or by which the borough
furnishes or intends to furnish electric current to any of its subscribers or
to the street lights operated by it.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All persons using electrical energy shall maintain their equipment in
such manner and shall provide such auxiliary devices as may be necessary so as
to prevent interference with radio or other communication signals, and to
prevent undue fluctuation of load resulting in flickering lights or other
disturbance.
   (B)   The borough’s Electric Department may refuse to serve or continue to
serve premises wherein the requirements of this section are not carried out.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.16 RESELLING ENERGY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall purchase electric energy from the borough’s Electric
Department and resell such energy to another person within the borough on a
metered basis, unless prior approval therefor has been obtained from the
Borough Council.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The borough’s Electric Department will use reasonable diligence to provide a
continuous, regular, and uninterrupted supply of service, but, should the
supply be interrupted by the Electric Department for the purpose of making
repairs, changes, or improvements in any part of its system for the general
good of the service or for the safety of the public, or should the supply or
service be interrupted, or fail, by reason of accident, strike, legal process,
state interference, or any other cause whatever, the borough shall not be
liable for damages, direct or consequential, resulting from such interruption
or failure.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.18 REASONS TO SHUT OFF SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY.
   The borough, through its Electric Department, hereby reserves the right to
shut off the supply of electricity for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   For repairs;
   (B)   For want of supply;
   (C)   For non-payment of bill when due;
   (D)   For fraudulent representation in relation to consumption of electric
light or power; and/or
   (E)   For violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of the
contract with the subscriber.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.19 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   A written application for service under one of the established rate
schedules of the borough’s Electric Department shall be required from each
person who becomes a subscriber after the date of this chapter, and on the
basis of such application, a contract for service shall be entered into between
the borough and such subscriber.
   (B)   The charge for installation of each power service connection shall be
$150, which sum shall be paid to the borough at the time the contract for
service is entered into.
   (C)   In addition to the power service connection installation charge, a
reasonable deposit or a suitable guarantee of security may be required of a
subscriber, and shall be required of every applicant for temporary service and
of every person not previously a subscriber who is a tenant of the premises to
be served with electric current. The deposit required under this division (C)
shall not be less than $150 or more than the maximum estimated bill that would
be rendered for the period of temporary service or, in the case of an applicant
for permanent service, for 60 days’ service at the applicable rate or rates.
Upon discontinuance of the service, the deposit shall be refunded, less the
amount of any indebtedness of the subscriber to the borough’s Electric
Department.
(Ord. 2-1975, passed 7- -1975)
§ 52.20 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Temporary service may be supplied by the borough’s Electric Department where
and when the said Department has available facilities. Temporary service shall
be supplied at the rate applicable to such service, with an additional charge
for service connection and disconnection upon discontinuance of service. The
charge for such connection and disconnection shall be based upon the cost of
providing and removing such service, but in no case shall it be less than $150.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.21 [RESERVED]
§ 52.22 BILLING.
   (A)   Bills for electric service shall be rendered to subscribers by the
borough’s Electric Department at one-month intervals. Upon failure, refusal, or
neglect of any subscriber to pay for electrical service, within 30 days after
being billed therefor, electric service to the premises for which such bill was
rendered shall be discontinued. No such service shall be discontinued, however,
until the borough’s Electric Department shall have given notice to such
subscriber, personally, or by mail addressed to such premises, and until ten
days shall have elapsed, after such notice. Thereupon, following the expiration
of such ten-day period, service may be discontinued without further notice.
Where service shall have been discontinued for nonpayment of any bill,
reconnection shall not be made until all outstanding bills have been paid and,
in addition, a charge of up to $300 for reconnection has been paid.
   (B)   (1)   All owners of real estate located in the borough shall be
responsible for the prompt payment of utility charges assessed by the borough’s
Electric Company.
      (2)   In the event that any tenant, renter, or occupant of the real
estate fails to pay the outstanding obligation, the landowner shall be liable
for the payment of same.
      (3)   Upon failure of the tenant, renter, occupant, or landowner to pay
said account, the borough shall be authorized to initiate legal proceedings to
collect same along with court costs and enter a judgment lien against the
landowner and real estate.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963; Ord. 97-1, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 52.23 NOTICE OF UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE.
   Subscribers shall notify the borough’s Electric Department Office in
writing, giving full details, should the electric service, in any respect, be
unsatisfactory.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
§ 52.24 RATES AND CHARGES.
   See electric fee schedule for current rates and charges.
§ 52.25 PAYMENT FOR NEW INSTALLATION OF ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Residential “underground” property owner to pay for all materials up-
front. The borough will specify conduit size required.
   (B)   Residential service will give 125 feet overhead at no cost to property
owner. Anything thereafter (additional footage), the property owner will need
to pay for material and costs.
   (C)   The borough will pay for the supplies and labor on the first 125 feet.
   (D)   The property owner agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of this
resolution.
(Res. passed 3-9-2004)
§ 52.26 ELECTRIC AND ANCILLARY SERVICES MARKETS.
   (A)   The Borough Council, as the retail electric regulatory authority for
the municipality and its retail electric consumers, determines it to be
desirable that the aggregation of demand response on behalf of its retail
customers to be bid directly into the organized electric and ancillary services
markets administered by the regional transmission organization that includes
the borough be performed by the borough or its authorized designee, unless
authorized by borough agents due to extenuating circumstances.
   (B)   The borough or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
aggregate retail customers’ demand response and bid demand response on behalf
of retail customers of the borough directly into any Commission-approved
independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s organized
electric markets.
   (C)   Retail customers on the borough’s electric system desiring to bid
their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s
or regional transmission organization’s organized electric markets may do so
only by participating in the program established by the borough or its
authorized designee.
   (D)   The borough or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers of the borough directly into
any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission
organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning reserves,
supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or regulation and
frequency response ancillary services (or its functional equivalent in the
Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission
organization’s tariff).
   (E)   Retail customers of the borough’s electric system desiring to bid
their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s
or regional transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance,
spinning reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control,
or regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff) may do so only by participating in the
program established by the borough or its authorized designee.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 52.27 SOLAR PANELS.
   Solar panels or other means of power generation may not be sized larger than
what the home/property can consume as to not put power back on the grid.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall do or perform any act prohibited by this chapter or who
shall in any way violate any specific prohibitory provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to and, in default of payment of
such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days; provided,
prosecution under this section may be carried out regardless of whether such
electric service has been discontinued under this chapter for violation of such
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-1963, passed 6-11-1963)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Speed limit
   
70.03   Crossing sidewalks
   
70.04   Stopping on the street
   
70.05   Vehicles standing in streets
   
70.06   Right-of-way at intersections
   
70.07   Lights and sound signals
   
70.08   Leaving cars without an operator
   
70.09   Muffler cut-out
   
70.10   Where to cross sidewalks
   
70.11   Following police directions
   
70.12   Weight limits
Additional Regulations
   
70.30   State-approved speed monitoring devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. The whole width from property line to property line of any street,
lane, alley, avenue, boulevard, viaduct, bridge, or other place intended, used,
or set apart for the public, including sidewalks, curb, street, and other
intervening space therein.
   STREET. The part of a public highway intended for vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices used exclusively upon
rails or tracks. The term does not include self-propelled wheelchair, or an
electrical mobility device operated by and designed for exclusive use of a
person with a mobility related disability.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922)
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed of vehicles within the borough shall not exceed the rate of speed
established by law (25 mph), and all shall proceed with great caution in making
turns in crossing other streets, crosswalks, and in passing other vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922)
§ 70.03 CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   A vehicle shall not cross a sidewalk at an alley or driveway except very
slowly and with great caution.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 STOPPING ON THE STREET.
   A vehicle shall not stop with its left side to the curb.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 VEHICLES STANDING IN STREETS.
   (A)   A vehicle shall not stand within any portion of a street for a longer
period of time than that designated by signs erected on said street by said
borough, nor shall a vehicle stand within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (B)   A vehicle shall not stand so as to prevent free passages of other
vehicles in both directions at the same time.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   When two or more vehicles arrive at a street intersection at the same time,
the vehicle to the right hand of any driver shall have the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922)
§ 70.07 LIGHTS AND SOUND SIGNALS.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be equipped with lights and sound signals as
prescribed by law. A driver of a vehicle carrying bright lights shall dim them
when approaching or overtaking another vehicle.
   (B)   All sound signals are prohibited, except for necessary warning.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 LEAVING CARS WITHOUT AN OPERATOR.
   A motor vehicle left standing, without operator in charge, shall be
efficiently locked and its park brake set.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922)
§ 70.09 MUFFLER CUT-OUT.
   The use of a muffler cut-out within the borough limits is prohibited; dense
smoke from motor is also prohibited.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 WHERE TO CROSS SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate a vehicle across or upon any sidewalk except at an
alley or driveway for the purpose of ingress or egress.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 FOLLOWING POLICE DIRECTIONS.
   Pedestrians and drivers shall at all times obey the directions and orders
given to them by the police officers of this borough with reference to the use
of the highways of the borough.
(Ord. passed 5-17-1922)
§ 70.12 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The operation of vehicles, other than emergency vehicles and vehicles
making local deliveries to residents of the borough, and all borough vehicles
or borough subcontractors performing any type of work within the borough limits
having a weight in excess of 15 tons is prohibited on all streets and alleys in
the borough.
   (B)   Official signs setting forth the restrictions set forth in division
(A) above shall be erected and maintained in accordance with § 4902(d) of the
Vehicle Code, being 75 Pa.CS. §§ 101 et seq.
(Ord. 2-1979, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.30 STATE-APPROVED SPEED MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   The rate of speed of any vehicle may be timed on any street, alley, or
highway within the corporate limits of the borough by properly trained and
certified full-time or part-time police officers of the borough using a
mechanical or electrical speed timing device.
   (B)   All mechanical or electrical state-approved speed monitoring devices
shall be of a type approved by the state’s Department of Transportation and
shall be calibrated and tested as required by the regulations of the state’s
Department of Transportation and the statutes of the state.
   (C)   The borough is hereby authorized and directed to enter into an
agreement with the State Police to permit the enforcement of speed restrictions
by properly trained and certified full-time and part-time police officers of
the borough through the use of mechanical or electrical state-approved speed
monitoring devices on all limited access or divided highways and/or state
designated highways within the physical boundaries of the borough.
   (D)   The borough shall erect official traffic-control devices, giving
notice of the use of mechanical or electrical state-approved speed monitoring
devices upon or at the entrances to the highway, street, or alley or part
thereof affected as may be most appropriate, pursuant to the provisions of 75
Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(c).
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-11-1981)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation convicted of violating any
of the provisions of §§
70.01 to
70.11 before the Burgess or any Justice of the Peace, shall be sentenced to pay
a fine not exceeding $100, with costs, in default of payment of which the
defendant shall be sentenced to the borough lookup for a period of not more
than five days or to the county jail for a period of not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Any person violating §
70.12 is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
in accordance with § 4902(e) of the Vehicle Code, being 75 Pa. CS. §§ 101 et
seq.
(Ord. passed 8-7-1916; Ord. passed 5-17-1922; Ord. 2-1979, passed 5-8-1979)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Street names
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections established.
      (1)   The following intersections are established as stop intersections
and official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if previously
erected) in such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named
street (the intersecting or through -street) on the first-named street (the
stop street) in the direction or directions indicated for that intersection.
      (2)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the
first-named or stop street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall stop
the vehicle as required by § 3323(b) of the Vehicle Code,, being 75 Pa.C.S. §§
101 et seq., and shall not proceed into or across the second-named or
intersecting street or through street until he or she has followed all
applicable requirements of that section of the law.
   (B)   Table of stop intersections.
Stop Street Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street       Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
Aspen Street      Madison Street                 Southbound
Brown Lane        Tunnel Street                  Eastbound
Croyle Street     Railroad Street                Southbound
Dibert Street     W. Jackson Street              Southeastbound
Elm Street        Spruce Street                  Southbound
First Avenue      New Germany Road               Eastbound
First Avenue      Jackson Street                 Westbound
First Avenue      Main Street                    Eastbound and westbound
First Avenue      Market Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Hill Street       Dibert Street                  Southbound
Jackson Street    Main Street                    Southbound
Laurel Street     Mill Street                    Southeastbound
Laurel Street     Wendroth Avenue                Northwestbound
Madison Street    Aspen Street                   Westbound
Madison Street    Main Street                    Eastbound
Main Street       New Germany Road               Southbound
Main Street       Second Avenue                  Northbound
Main Street       State Hwy. Rt. 53              Southbound
Manor Drive       Tunnel Street                  Eastbound
Market Street     New Germany Road               Southbound
Market Street     Second Avenue                  Northbound
McArdle Street    Mill Street                    Northbound
McArdle Street    Railroad Street                Southbound
Mill Street       Croyle Street                  Westbound and eastbound
Mill Street       Railroad Street                Eastbound
Bridge Street     Main Street                    Northbound
Tunnel Street     Oaks Road                      Southbound
Tunnel Street     Railroad Street                Southbound
Orchard Street    Portage Lane                   Southeastbound
Orchard Street    Wendroth Avenue                Northwestbound
Portage Lane      Main Street                    Northbound
Oaks Road         Tunnel Street                  Southbound
Railroad Street   Main Street                    Northbound
Second Avenue     Jackson Street                 Westbound
Second Avenue     Main Street                    Eastbound and westbound
Second Avenue     Market Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Spring Street     New Germany Road               Southbound
Spring Street     Second Avenue                  Southbound
W. Jackson Street Jackson Street                 Southeastbound
Wendroth Ave.     Croyle Street                  Southeastbound
Wendroth Ave.     Main Street                    Northeastbound
 
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 12-13-1988; Ord. 1992-2, passed 12-8-1992; Ord. 4-1995,
passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 1998-1, passed 9-8-1998)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   One-way streets established. The following is established as a one-way
street: Wendroth Avenue from Croyle Street to Laurel Street vehicular traffic
to move both eastbound and westbound directions, and Wendroth Avenue from
Orchard Street to Main Street vehicular traffic to move in an eastbound
direction only.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who shall operate a vehicle on said street or
portion thereof hereby established as a one-way street other than in the
direction established hereby for vehicular traffic thereon shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of penalties in accordance with
Title 75 of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, being 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 8-10-2004)
SCHEDULE III: STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The name of the street now designated as South Street be and the same
hereby is changed to Orchard Street.
   (B)   The borough hereby resolves that the streets and alleys within the
borough be identified as follows.
      (1)   The street known as Route #53 shall be Railroad Street.
      (2)   The street which begins at Railroad Street (Route #53),
approximately 700 feet from the western municipal boundary, and extends due
north to Mill Street shall be known as McArdles Street.
      (3)   The street which begins at Railroad Street (Route #53),
approximately 500 feet east of McArdles Street, and extends due north to Bridge
Street shall be known as Croyle Street.
      (4)   The street which begins at Railroad Street (Route #53),
approximately 600 feet east of Croyle Street, and extends due west
perpendicular to Croyle Street to the railroad right-of-way shall be known as
Mill Street.
      (5)   The street which begins at Railroad Street (Route #53),
approximately 350 feet east of Mill Street, and extends northwest to the
railroad right-of-way, west to a point at which it crosses the railroad, east a
distance of approximately 400 feet, north to the New Germany Road, and then
northwest to Second Avenue shall be known as Main Street.
      (6)   The street which begins at Railroad Street (Route #53),
approximately 200 feet east of Main Street, and extends northeast under the
railroad right-of-way to the municipal line shall be known as Tunnel Street.
      (7)   The street which begins at Tunnel Street, approximately 50 feet
north of the railroad right-of-way, and extends due north to the municipal line
shall be known as Oaks Road.
      (8)   The street which begins at Tunnel Street, approximately 45 feet
north of the railroad right-of-way, and extends southwest to a private lane
shall be known as Manor Drive.
      (9)   The street which begins at Tunnel Street, approximately 75 feet
north of Railroad Street, and extends due west to the railroad right-of-way
shall be known as Brown Lane.
      (10)   The alley which begins at Main Street, approximately five feet
west of Railroad Street, and extends southwest parallel to Railroad Street to
Mill Street shall be known as Portage Lane.
      (11)   The street which begins at Main Street, approximately 400 feet
west of Railroad Street, and extends southwest to Croyle Street shall be known
as Wendroth Avenue.
      (12)   The street which begins at Portage Lane, approximately 500 feet
southwest of Main Street, and extends northwest to Wendroth Avenue shall be
known as Orchard Street.
      (13)   The street which begins at Mill Street, approximately 150 feet
west of Railroad Street, and extends northwest to Wendroth Avenue shall be
known as Laurel Street.
      (14)   The street which begins at the north end of Croyle Street, and
extends east to Main Street shall be known as Bridge Street.
      (15)   The alley which begins at Bridge Street, approximately 400 feet
east of Croyle Street, and extends southeast beyond Wendroth Avenue shall be
known as Cypress Street.
      (16)   The street which begins at Main Street at the north end of the
bridge, and extends southwest to private property shall be known as Madison
Street.
      (17)   The street (LR11021) which begins at Main Street and extends
northwest to the municipal line shall be known as Jackson Street.
      (18)   The street (LR11025) which begins at Main Street, approximately
550 feet north of the railroad right-of-way, and extends due north to the
municipal line shall be known as New Germany Road.
      (19)   The street which begins at Madison Street, approximately 150 feet
southwest of Main Street, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to
Quarry Alley shall be known as Aspen Street.
      (20)   The alley which begins at Main Street, approximately 50 feet east
of Madison Street, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to Quarry
Alley shall be known as Willow Street.
      (21)   The alley which begins at Main Street, approximately 150 feet east
of Jackson Street, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to Quarry
Alley shall be known as Hickory Street.
      (22)   The alley which begins at the north end of Aspen Street and
extends northeast to Main Street shall be known as Quarry Street.
      (23)   The alley which begins at Jackson Street, approximately 200 feet
northwest of Quarry Street, and extends northeast to Main Street shall be known
as Holly Street.
      (24)   The alley which begins at Jackson Street, approximately 200 feet
northwest of Holly Street, and extends northeast to New Germany Road shall be
known as Elm Street.
      (25)   The street which begins at Jackson Street, approximately 200 feet
northwest of Elm Street, and extends northeast to New Germany Road shall be
known as First Avenue.
      (26)   The street which begins at Jackson Street, approximately 200 feet
northwest of First Avenue, and extends northeast to Spring Street shall be
known as Second Avenue.
      (27)   The alley which begins at the middle of Holly Street and extends
parallel to Jackson Street northwest to Second Avenue shall be known as Spruce
Street.
      (28)   The alley which begins at Elm Street, approximately 200 feet
northeast of Main Street, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to
Second Avenue shall be known as Chestnut Street.
      (29)   The street which begins at New Germany Road, approximately 100
feet north of Elm Street and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to
Second Avenue shall be known as Market Street.
      (30)   The street which begins at New Germany Road, approximately 150
feet north of First Avenue, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest to
Second Avenue shall be known as Spring Street.
      (31)   The alley which begins at Quarry Street, approximately 200 feet
southwest of Jackson Street, and extends parallel to Jackson Street northwest
to Birch Street shall be known as Dogwood Street.
      (32)   The alley which begins at the north end of Dogwood Street and
extends northeast to Jackson Street shall be known as Birch Street.
      (33)   The alley which begins at the middle of Dogwood Street and extends
northeast to Jackson Street shall be known as Poplar Street.
      (34)   The street which begins at Jackson Street at the Route #219 right-
of-way and extends west to the municipal line shall be known as West Jackson
Street.
      (35)   The street which begins at West Jackson Street, approximately 500
feet west of Jackson Street, and extends west to the municipal line shall be
known as Dibert Street.
      (36)   The street that begins at Dibert Street, approximately 500 feet
west of West Jackson Street, and extends north to Pine Street shall be known as
Hill Street.
      (37)   The alley that begins at West Jackson Street, approximately 300
feet west of Jackson Street, and extends west beyond Hill Street to private
property shall be known as Pine Street.
      (38)   The private lane that begins at Jackson Street, approximately 300
feet northwest of West Jackson Street, and extends east onto private property
shall be known as Cherry Street.
      (39)   The street that begins at Main Street, approximately 200 feet east
of Jackson Street, and extends southeast to the railroad right-of-way shall be
known as Station Street.
      (40)   The private lane that begins at New Germany Road, approximately
500 feet north of Spring Street, and extends northeast across Laurel Run to
private property shall be known as Whitestone Drive.
      (41)   The private lane that begins at New Germany Road, approximately
300 feet north of Whitestone Drive, and extends northeast onto private property
to the municipal line shall be known as Hemlock Street.
      (42)   The private lane that begins at New Germany Road, approximately
150 feet north of Whitestone Drive, and extends southwest onto private property
to the Route #219 right-of-way shall be known as Beech Street.
      (43)   The private lane that begins at New Germany Road, approximately 20
feet north of Beech Street, and extends southwest onto private property to the
Route #219 right-of-way shall be known as Locust Street.
      (44)   The private lane that begins at Beech Street, approximately 350
feet southwest of New Germany Road, and extends south onto private property to
the Route #219 right-of-way shall be known as Mountain Drive.
      (45)   The private lane that begins at Beech Street, approximately 360
feet southwest of New Germany Road, and extends northwest to Locust Street
shall be known as Ash Street.
      (46)   The private lane that begins at Locust Street, approximately 150
feet southwest of New Germany Road, and extends northwest forming a circle that
ends again on Locust Street shall be known as Hawthorne circle.
(Ord. 2-1960, passed 5-10-1960; Ord. passed 1-25-1973; Res. 1992-01, passed 12-
8-1992)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking regulations
SCHEDULE I. PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Parking is hereby prohibited on the following streets between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 9:00 a.m. during the period from December 1 to
April 1:
         (a)   West side of Main Street from a point where said Main Street
intersects Railroad Street and extending thence in a northwesterly direction to
the right-of-way of Penn Central Railroad;
         (b)   West side of Jackson Street from the intersection of Jackson
Street with Main Street and extending thence north to the borough line;
         (c)   West side of Main Street from a point opposite the Borough Fire
Hall thence in a northerly direction to New Germany Road; and
         (d)   West side of New Germany Road (Legislative Route No. 11025) from
its intersection with Main Street thence in a northerly direction to the
borough line.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of division (A)(1) above
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than two days.
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
both sides of Madison Street from Main Street to the westerly terminus of
Madison Street.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on Madison
Avenue or Elm Street at any time. Said area is hereby designated as a no
parking street and shall be posted as such by the borough.
      (2)   Any person who violates division (C)(1) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall pay a fine to the borough of $25. The borough shall, at its
discretion, provide for the towing of any vehicle from Madison Avenue or Elm
Street and all costs of same shall be paid by the violator.
   (D)   (1)   Parking shall be prohibited on the following designated streets
from November 15 through April 15 from a period of 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. for
the purpose of providing snow removal:
         (a)   Bridge Street;
         (b)   Dibert Street;
         (c)   First Avenue;
         (d)   Hill Street;
         (e)   Main Street;
         (f)   Market Street;
         (g)   Mill Street;
         (h)   Second Avenue;
         (i)   Spring Street;
         (j)   Station Street; and
         (k)   Wendroth Avenue.
      (2)   Parking changes on Spring Street and Second Avenue:
         (a)   No parking on either side of Spring Street (east and west) from
New Germany Road to Second Avenue; and
         (b)   Parking will commence on the west side of Spring Street from
Second Avenue to the top.
   (E)   (1)   Motor vehicles parking on Wendroth Avenue, Mill Street, and
Portage Lane are prohibited as of the effective date of this amendment. No
vehicle shall be permitted to park on either side of the aforesaid Wendroth
Avenue, Mill Street, and Portage Lane under penalty of law.
      (2)   Any person who shall park a vehicle on said street or portion
thereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to a fine in accordance
with Title 75 of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, being 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et
seq.
(Ord. 2-1970, passed 11-10-1970; Ord. 3-1976, passed 9-14-1976; Ord. 1-1993,
passed 4-1-1993; Ord. 4-2006, passed 11-14-2006; Ord. 3-2007, passed 11-13-
2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dog Regulations
   
90.01   Running at large
   
90.02   Disturbing the peace
   
90.03   Warnings to owners of disturbing dogs
   
90.04   Injury to humans
   
90.05   Nuisances
   
90.06   Number of dogs limited
   
90.07   Permission required to harbor; conditions; revocation
   
90.08   Dog registration
Livestock and Other Animals
   
90.20   Prohibited animals
   
90.21   Conditions to harbor horses and cows
   
90.22   Conditions to harbor hamsters, guinea pigs, and rabbits
   
90.23   Laying hens/chickens
   
90.24   Burying dead farm animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOG REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or keeps any dog to permit such
dog to run at large in the borough in violation of the provisions of the Dog
Law of 1982, 3 P.S. §§ 459-101 et seq. Any dog running at large in violation of
said law shall be subject to seizure, detention, and disposal as provided
therein.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, harbor, control, or keep in custody
any animal or bird which makes any noise continuously and/or incessantly for a
period of ten minutes or makes such noise intermittently for one-half hour or
more to the disturbance of any person any time of the day or night regardless
of whether the animal or bird is physically situated in or upon private
property, said noise being a nuisance.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 WARNINGS TO OWNERS OF DISTURBING DOGS.
   (A)   Any person may request the local Police Department to warn any person
who shall own, harbor, or keep in custody any dog or animal which disturbs the
peace by barking, howling, or making other loud noise to the annoyance and
discomfort of persons in the borough.
   (B)   Any such request shall be in writing and shall identify and specify
the residence of the owner, keeper, or custodian of the dog or other animal;
shall identify and specify the residence of the person making the request. Upon
receipt of such request, the Police Department shall mail a copy of this
section to the person identified as the owner, keeper, or custodian of the dog
or other animal.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be deemed to have occurred upon a
second or subsequent violation of division (B) above after the date of delivery
of the warning.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 INJURY TO HUMANS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to permit said dog to injure
any human being by biting, jumping on, knocking down, or attacking said human
being.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person owning, harboring, keeping, or in charge of any dog shall
cause, suffer, or allow such dog to soil, defile, defecate on, or commit any
nuisance on any common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area,
park, or any place where people congregate or walk, or on any public property
whatsoever, or on any private property without the permission of the owner of
said property.
   (B)   The restriction in this section shall not apply to that portion of the
street lying between the curb lines which may be used to curb such dog under
the following conditions:
      (1)   The person who so curbs such dog shall immediately remove all feces
deposited by such dog by any sanitary method; or
      (2)   The feces removed from the aforementioned designated area shall be
disposed of in a sanitary manner by the person owning, harboring, keeping, or
in charge of any dog curbed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 NUMBER OF DOGS LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep more than four dogs, six months of age or
older, on any premises, regardless of the number of owners; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any premises for which a kennel license
has been obtained pursuant to the Dog Law of 1982, 3 P.S. §§ 459-101 et seq.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO HARBOR; CONDITIONS; REVOCATION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, without special permission of the
Borough Council, as hereinafter provided, shall harbor or keep any livestock or
fowls at any place within the borough. LIVESTOCK, as used in this section,
shall include horses, donkeys, mules, ponies, cattle, sheep, pigs, hogs,
llamas, and alpacas. Permission to keep or harbor livestock or fowls may be
granted by the Borough Council, at its discretion, in special cases where the
Council considers that the keeping or harboring of such animals or fowls is not
likely to become a source of annoyance to anyone in the borough or a health
hazard. Such permission may be granted upon conditions prescribed by the
Council, such conditions to include such matters as:
      (1)   Limitation of the number and kind of animals or fowls to be kept or
harbored on the premises;
      (2)   The type of shelter or pen to be provided and the location thereof;
      (3)   Sanitary standards to be adhered to; and
      (4)   Any other factors deemed pertinent by the Council.
   (B)   At any time, with or without cause, the Council may revoke a
permission granted under this section, and within 30 to 60 days after such
revocation, the person, firm, or corporation previously keeping or harboring
any livestock or fowls under the permission thereby revoked shall cease to keep
or harbor such livestock or fowls at any place within the borough.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 10-12-2004)
§ 90.08 DOG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All dogs in the borough are to be registered with the County
Courthouse.
   (B)   All taxes and fines provided for in this section shall be collected
for borough purposes and in the same manner as other taxes and fines are
collected as provided for by law, and the Collector thereof shall receive 10%
commission on every dollar collected.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-1-1907)
LIVESTOCK AND OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.20 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall keep any hog, goat, mink, or sheep at
any place within the borough.
(Ord. 13-1964, passed 2-11-1964) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 CONDITIONS TO HARBOR HORSES AND COWS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall keep any horse or horses, cow or
cows at any place within the borough, except with special permission from the
Board of Health.
   (B)   Such permission shall be granted on the following conditions.
      (1)   The place where the horse or horses, cow or cows is proposed to be
kept, and the stable or barn to be provided shall be so located that no
nuisance shall result therefrom.
      (2)   No stable or barn shall be located within 50 feet of any dwelling
house or within 30 feet of any street.
      (3)   Every stable or barn shall be kept in a sanitary condition and free
from unpleasant odors and conditions contributing to the breeding of flies.
      (4)   Manure and filth shall not be permitted to accumulate to the
annoyance of any resident of the vicinity or persons traveling thereby.
      (5)   Any permission granted by the Board of Health under this section
may be revoked thereby at any time when any of the conditions of this section
are not complied with.
(Ord. 13-1964, passed 2-11-1964) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 CONDITIONS TO HARBOR HAMSTERS, GUINEA PIGS, AND RABBITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall keep any hamsters, guinea pigs,
or rabbits at any place within the borough, except with special permission from
the Board of Health.
   (B)   Such permission shall be granted only on the following conditions.
      (1)   Such hamsters, guinea pigs, or rabbits shall be kept in good
condition, healthy, clean, and free from disease.
      (2)   Pens shall be provided for all hamsters, guinea pigs, or rabbits,
and no hamsters, guinea pigs, or rabbits shall be permitted to run at large.
      (3)   No pen shall be located within 50 feet of any dwelling house or
within 30 feet of any street.
      (4)   All pens shall be kept clean and free from vermin, and shall be
dry, airy, well lighted, and not overcrowded.
      (5)   All refuse, food, and excrement shall be removed as often as
necessary to prevent odors from developing therefrom.
      (6)   Any permission granted by the Board of Health under this section
may stipulate the maximum number of hamsters, guinea pigs, or rabbits that may
be kept upon any premises thereunder.
      (7)   Any permission granted by the Board of Health under this section
may be revoked thereby at any time when any of the conditions of this section
are not complied with.
(Ord. 13-1964, passed 2-11-1964) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LAYING HENS/CHICKENS.
   (A)   Only laying hens from chicken breeds are permitted in town. Chickens
must be female and used for egg laying only. The following types of chickens
and chicken services/products are not permitted:
      (1)   Males (Roosters or Capons);
      (2)   Meat breeds; or
       (3)   Commercial sales of eggs or hatching of chicks.
   (B)   No more than eight laying hens are permitted on a residential lot. If
the property owner has two lots, then up to 16 laying hens are permitted.
   (C)   Each lot must be at least 5,000 square feet.
   (D)   Chickens must be housed in an approved chicken coop or pen, which must
receive Council approval prior to building or purchasing.
      (1)   The coop or shelter must be fully contained (including roof), be
well ventilated, be fully screened in openings, and have at least one square
foot per bird.
      (2)   The coop or shelter must be fully screened and buffered by fencing
and/or vegetation so as not to be visible from any public right-of-way or
street.
      (3)   The coop or shelter must be designed in compliance with any state
standards or regulations pertaining to livestock or animal protection and/or
health standards.
   (E)   Structures must be placed at least 20 feet from neighboring property
line.
   (F)   Structures may not be located in the front of a residence.
   (G)   Pens must be kept clean and regularly have bedding and nesting
material changed. Applicants are not permitted to have open compost piles or
place materials in town compost areas.
   (H)   Chickens must receive clean water and food regularly and eggs must be
gathered regularly. Feed, scratch, and other edibles must be stored in sealed
containers.
   (I)   Applicants are not permitted to have “free range” chickens or chickens
running at large. Outdoor enclosures are permitted and encouraged; these should
not exceed more than 50 square feet unless Council approval is granted.
   (J)   The slaughtering or disposal of chickens is not permitted in town.
   (K)   Renters are prohibited from applying for this permit unless written
approval from landlord is obtain and a written authorization is attached to
this application.
   (L)   The applicant agrees to have a representative from the Council
evaluate the proposed area to ensure it meets requirements set forth in the
ordinance and application. Should the Council be denied access, the application
will be rejected and returned to applicant.
   (M)   The applicant agrees to all items expressed above and agrees to
receive up to a $100 per day fine if found in violation of this application
which also serves as an agreement between the property owners or tenant and the
borough.
   (N)   The applicant understands if any legal action occurs, they will be
responsible for any and all legal fees acquired by Summerhill.
   (O)   The applicant acknowledges no chickens may be placed or maintained on
a lot until a permit is issued by the borough. The permit shall be issued after
an inspection is performed confirming compliance with the requirements of § 5-
2004 and upon payment of a $50 application fee. The permit shall be valid for
one year and must be renewed annually after inspection and payment of the
required $25 fee.
   (P)   A building permit is also required for the placement of the coop/pen
and must be obtained by contacting Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency (phone:
(814)-471-0424).
   (Q)   Incomplete applications will be rejected and returned.
   (R)   If property is unable to be viewed or inspected, the application will
be rejected and returned. If a permit has already been issued, the permit will
be revoked.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-14-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 BURYING DEAD FARM ANIMALS.
   No person shall bury any horse, cattle, sheep, or swine at any place within
the limits of the borough. Any person burying any other dead animal within the
limits of the borough shall be required to bury the same not less than three
feet below the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 13-1964, passed 2-11-1964) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
90.01 to
90.07 shall be, upon conviction thereof, sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $10 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any dog found running at large contrary to provisions of §
90.08 is hereby declared a public nuisance, and the police or such other person
as the Council may appoint for that purpose shall call the dog warden to
remove. Persons shall receive from the borough a fee of $150 for removal of
each dog.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who or which shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
90.20 to
90.24 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $100 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (E)   Any person who shall willfully suffer his or her horse, mare, gelding,
mule, hog, cow, goat, or goose to run at large within the borough shall, for
each offense, upon conviction thereof, forfeit and pay for each of the said
animals or fowl so running at large the sum of $10 to $100, and every of the
above mentioned animals or fowl so running at large shall be considered as a
public and common nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the High Constable or
police officer to seize and take into custody and impound every of the said
animals so found running at large; and if, after four days’ public notice, no
person, shall come forward, claim the same and pay the fine, and all costs and
charges attending the seizing and keeping of the same, every such animal shall
be sold at public sale by the High Constable or any police officer, and after
retaining all reasonable costs and expenses, he or she shall pay the balance,
if any, to the Treasurer for the use of the city.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-1-1907; Ord. 13-1964, passed 2-11-1964; Ord. 5-2004, passed
10-12-2004)
CHAPTER 91: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Grass and Weeds
   
91.001   Definition
   
91.002   Height requirement
   
91.003   Failure to cut grass
   
91.004   Abatement by the borough
   
91.005   Cost of abatement
   
91.006   Appeal of order to cut grass
Storage of Motor Vehicles
   
91.020   Definitions
   
91.021   Motor vehicle nuisances
   
91.022   Storage of motor vehicle nuisances
   
91.023   Inspection of premises; notice to comply
   
91.024   Authority to remedy noncompliance
Storage of Machinery and Equipment
   
91.035   Definitions
   
91.036   Storage of nuisances
   
91.037   Storage requirements
   
91.038   Inspection of premises; notice to comply
   
91.039   Authority to remedy noncompliance
Vector Control Program
   
91.050   Definitions
   
91.051   Prohibited acts
   
91.052   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
91.053   Vector-proofing
   
91.054   Private vector control programs
   
91.055   Authority to abate vector problems
Property Maintenance Requirement
   
91.070   Definitions
   
91.071   Application
   
91.072   Buildings and structures
   
91.073   Yards, open lots, and parking areas
   
91.074   Infestation, prevention, and correction
   
91.075   Miscellaneous provisions
   
91.076   Responsibilities of occupants
   
91.077   Responsibilities of owners
   
91.078   Inspection
   
91.079   Notice to comply
   
91.080   Authority to remedy noncompliance
   
91.081   Hearing
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GRASS AND WEEDS
§ 91.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND GRASS. Include all weeds, grasses, plants, bushes, poison oak,
poison ivy, and other vegetation, except trees, ornamental shrubbery, flowers,
garden vegetables, compost piles, or other plants or vegetables customarily
planted and/or cultivated by farmers or gardeners. A general growth of WEEDS
AND GRASS in excess of eight inches is hereby declared to be a menace to public
health and safety.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 91.002 HEIGHT REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee, or agent in charge of
land in the borough to permit weeds and grass to remain uncut and exceed a
general height of eight inches.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 FAILURE TO CUT GRASS.
   (A)   Upon the failure, refusal, or neglect of an owner, occupant, lessee,
or agent to cut weeds and grass as required hereby, the Council shall notify
such owner, occupant, lessee, or agent of such condition and shall order such
person to eliminate such weeds and grass within ten days.
   (B)   Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on, or
sent by ordinary mail to, the owner of the property at the address shown on the
assessment records of the county.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 91.004 ABATEMENT BY THE BOROUGH.
   If said order is not complied with within said ten-day period, the Council
may cause the weeds and grass to be cut and removed, or may have such failure
prosecuted as a violation of §§
91.001 to
91.006, or both.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 91.005 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for the borough to have the weeds and grass
cut and removed, as above provided, the cost thereof shall constitute a debt
owed to the borough, and unless paid, the same shall be added to the personal
property tax bill or real estate tax bill sent to the owner, and may thereafter
be collected in the same manner as taxes are collected. Or, if the Council so
determine, said charges may be collected as a debt.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 91.006 APPEAL OF ORDER TO CUT GRASS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to the provisions of
§§
91.001 to
91.006 may file a written appeal to the Council within ten days from the date
of such order, whereupon the Council shall promptly thereafter, upon written
notice, hold a hearing granting to such person the right and opportunity to
show cause why he or she should not comply with the order.
   (B)   Said appeal shall not stay the effectiveness or execution of said
order, unless the Council shall specifically so provide.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LESSEE. Owner, for the purpose of this chapter, when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in which
persons or property may be transported upon public streets or highways, and
including trailers or semi-trailers pulled thereby.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, structure, or improvement which shall constitute a
danger or potential danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of
the borough.
   OWNER. The actual owner, agent, or custodian of the property on which motor
vehicles are stored, whether individual or partnership, association, or
corporation.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.021 MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to maintain a
motor vehicle nuisance upon the open private grounds of such person, owner, or
lessee within the borough.
   (B)   A motor vehicle nuisance shall include any motor vehicle which is
unable to move under its own power and has any of the following physical
defects:
      (1)   Broken windshields, mirrors, or other glass with sharp edges;
      (2)   One or more flat or open tires or tubes which could permit vermin
harborage;
      (3)   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk, or other body parts which
could permit animal harborage;
      (4)   Any body parts with sharp edges including holes resulting from
rust;
      (5)   Missing tires resulting in unsafe suspension of the motor vehicle;
      (6)   Upholstery which is torn or open which could permit animal and/or
vermin harborage;
      (7)   Broken headlamps or tail lamps with sharp edges;
      (8)   Disassembled chassis parts apart from the motor vehicle stored in a
disorderly fashion or loose in or on the vehicle;
      (9)   Protruding sharp objects from the chassis;
      (10)   Broken vehicle frame suspended from the ground in an unstable
manner;
      (11)   Leaking or damaged oil pan or gas tank which could cause fire or
explosion;
      (12)   Exposed battery containing acid;
      (13)   Inoperable locking mechanism for doors or trunk;
      (14)   Open or damaged floorboards including trunk and firewall;
      (15)   Damaged bumpers pulled away from the perimeter of vehicle;
      (16)   Broken grill with protruding edges;
      (17)   Loose or damaged metal trim and clips;
      (18)   Broken communication equipment antennas;
      (19)   Suspended on unstable supports;
      (20)   Such other defects which could threaten the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the borough; or
      (21)   Any vehicle outside of a fully enclosed building which is not
physically operable or without valid registration or current inspection
certification.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any person, owner, or lessee who has one or more motor vehicle
nuisances, as defined in §
91.021, may store such vehicle(s) within a garage or other enclosed building
or, outside within an opaque fence at least six feet high which is locked at
all times when unattended.
   (B)   With the special approval of the Borough Council, motor vehicle
nuisances may also be stored outside in an area enclosed by a chain link fence,
at least six feet high, screened by shrubbery around the perimeter to the
height of the fence, with an unobstructed gate capable of admitting fire or
emergency equipment. Such gate shall remain locked at all times when
unattended. In addition, all gas and oil or other flammable liquid shall be
removed from the motor vehicle and it shall be kept free of vermin infestation
while being stored. The total area of storage of motor vehicle nuisance may not
exceed 300 square feet.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the storage of motor
vehicle nuisances contrary to the provisions of any applicable zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.023 INSPECTION OF PREMISES; NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The local Police Department is hereby empowered to inspect private
property on which motor vehicles are stored to determine if there is compliance
with the provisions of the chapter. If noncompliance with the provisions of
this chapter constitutes a nuisance, or if any condition, structure, or
improvement poses a threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, he
or she shall issue a written notice to be served by registered or certified
mail upon the owner of said premises, or, if the owner’s whereabouts or
identity be unknown, by posting the notice conspicuously upon the offending
premises.
   (B)   Said notice shall specify the condition or structure or improvement
complained of, and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition or structure or improvement as set forth therein within
ten days of mailing or posting of said notice, and thereafter, to fully comply
with the requirements of the notice within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.024 AUTHORITY TO REMEDY NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner of grounds on which motor vehicles are stored does not comply
with the notice to abate the nuisance within the time limit prescribed, the
borough shall have the authority to take measures to correct the conditions and
collect the cost of such corrections plus 10% of all costs. The borough, in
such event and pursuant to its statutory or otherwise authorized police powers,
shall have the right and power to enter upon the offending premises to
accomplish the foregoing.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
STORAGE OF MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
§ 91.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LESSEE. Owner, for the purpose if this chapter, when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, structure, or improvement which shall constitute a
threat or potential threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of
the borough.
   OWNER. The actual owner, agent, or custodian of the property on which
machinery, equipment, or materials are stored, whether individual or
partnership, association, or corporation.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.036 STORAGE OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or maintain abandoned,
unused, stripped, damaged, and generally unusable appliances, machinery or
equipment, or construction materials in the open on private property.
   (B)   Such storage shall constitute a nuisance and/or health hazard if any
of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Broken glass or metal parts with sharp or protruding edges;
      (2)   Containers which are conducive to the harboring and growth of
vermin or animals;
      (3)   Storage in any manner which would allow the equipment, machinery,
material, or any parts thereof to easily shift, tilt, or fall from its original
storage position;
      (4)   Containers of any liquid or material of a hazardous or potentially
hazardous nature, including, but not limited to, gasoline, oil, battery acids,
refrigeration agents, and poisons;
      (5)   Any other condition which shall threaten the health, safety, or
welfare of the citizens; or
      (6)   Refrigerators with the doors remaining attached.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Storage of such items as listed in §
91.036 on private property shall be permitted only in strict compliance with
the regulations provided herein or with stricter regulations in other borough
ordinances, or in state or federal laws. Such nuisance(s) must be stored within
a garage or other enclosed building, or outside within an opaque fence at least
six feet high which is locked at all times when unattended.
   (B)   (1)   With the special approval of the Borough Council, nuisances may
also be stored outside in an area enclosed by a chain link fence, at least six
feet high, screened by shrubbery around the perimeter to the height of the
fence, with an unobstructed gate capable of admitting fire or emergency
equipment. Such gate shall remain locked at all times when unattended.
      (2)   In addition, the appliance, machinery, equipment, or constructions
materials shall be kept free of vermin infestation while being stored; and all
gas, oil, or other potentially hazardous substances shall be removed.
      (3)   The total area of storage of such nuisances may not exceed 100
square feet.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the storage of appliances,
machinery, equipment, or material nuisances contrary to the provisions of any
applicable zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.038 INSPECTION OF PREMISES; NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   The local Police Department is hereby empowered to inspect
private property on which appliances, machinery, equipment, and/or various
construction materials are stored to determine if there is compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
nuisance, or if any condition, structure, or improvement poses a danger to the
health, safety, or welfare of the public, he or she shall issue a written
notice to be served by registered or certified mail upon the owner of said
premises, or, if the owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting the
notice conspicuously upon the offending premises.
   (B)   Said notice shall specify the condition considered to be a hazard and/
or nuisance and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition as set forth in the notice within ten days of mailing or
posting of said notice, and thereafter, to fully comply with the requirements
of the notice within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.039 AUTHORITY TO REMEDY NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the owner of property on which appliance, machinery, equipment,
and/or construction materials are stored does not comply with the notice to
abate the nuisance, within the time limit prescribed, the borough shall have
the authority to take measures to correct the conditions and collect the cost
of such corrections plus 10% of all costs.
   (B)   The borough, in such event and pursuant to its statutory or otherwise
authorized police powers, shall have the right and power to enter upon the
offending premises to accomplish the foregoing.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
VECTOR CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 91.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure which is not used or not intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants and which is located on or
partially on any premises.
   BREEDING AREA. Any condition which provides the necessary environment for
the birth or hatching of vectors.
   COLLECTION OF WATER. Water contained in ditches, pools, ponds, streams,
excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains,
cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs, urns, cans, boxes, bottles,
tubs, buckets, roof gutters, tanks of flush closets, reservoirs, vessels,
receptacles of any kind, or other containers or devices which may hold water.
   COVERED RECEPTACLE. A container of metal, wood, heavy-duty plastic, or
synthetic material of solid construction, with a tight-fitting cover secured
against wind and leakage.
   DEP. Department of Environmental Protection, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   DILAPIDATED. Fallen into partial ruin or decay.
   DISPOSAL. Storage, collection, disposal, or handling of refuse.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of vectors by eliminating their
harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve
as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, fogging, larviciding,
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal vector control elimination
methods approved by the local or state authority having such administrative
authority.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, or consumption of food.
   HARBORAGE. Any place where vectors can live, nest, or seek shelter.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in or actually having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
In dwelling units, a guest will be considered an OCCUPANT.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
have:
      (1)   Legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Charge, care, or control of any premises, dwelling, or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or an executor, administrator, trustee,
or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if
he or she were the owner.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except human body wastes, and including handling
of refuse.
   RUBBISH. Glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood, or non-putrescible solid
wastes.
   VECTOR. A rodent, arthropod, or insect capable of transmitting a disease or
infection, including but not limited to rats, mosquitoes, cockroaches, flies,
and ticks.
   VECTOR PROOFING. A form of construction to prevent ingress or egress of
vectors to or from a given space or building or gaining access to food, water,
or harborage, including, but not limited to, rat-proofing and mosquito-
proofing.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.051 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to deposit or to knowingly permit any person acting as
agent, employee, or servant of said person to deposit any refuse, offal,
pomace, dead animals, decaying matter, or organic substance of any kind in or
upon any private lot, building, structure, accessory structure, premises, or in
or upon any street, avenue, alley, parkway, ravine, ditch, gutter, or into any
of the waters of the state so that the same shall or may afford food,
harborage, or breeding areas for vectors;
   (B)   For any person to deposit or permit to accumulate in or upon any
premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lot, or alley, any lumber, boxes,
barrels, bottles, cans, glass, scrap iron, wire, metal articles, pipe, broken
stone or cement, broken crockery, broken plaster, or rubbish of any kind,
unless the same may be kept in covered receptacles or placed on open racks that
are elevated not less than 18 inches above the ground, and evenly piled or
stacked; or unless disposed of in a manner approved by DEP;
   (C)   To maintain a junkyard or a place for the dumping or wrecking or
disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any land or of
any of the part thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or
equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons, in such a manner
as to afford harborages or breeding areas for vectors;
   (D)   To store refuse in containers other than covered receptacles, which
shall be kept clean by rinsing and draining as often as necessary so as not to
provide food or breeding areas for vectors;
   (E)   To dump, burn, bury, destroy, or otherwise dispose of refuse except at
an approved refuse disposal site;
   (F)   To collect, haul, transport, or convey garbage in open, unenclosed,
nonleak-proof vehicles;
   (G)   To construct, maintain, or use a sewage system, privy, urinal,
cesspool, or other receptacle for human excrement so that vectors may have
access to the excrementitious matter contained therein; or
   (H)   To have, keep, maintain, cause, or permit any collection of standing
or flowing water except for agricultural or industrial purposes in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless such collection of water is
treated or maintained so as effectually to prevent such breeding.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.052 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the
dwelling and premises thereof, in such a manner as to prevent breeding areas
and harborages for vectors.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than
one dwelling unit shall be responsible for extermination within his or her
dwelling unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.053 VECTOR-PROOFING.
   (A)   Any dwelling, building, structure, accessory structure, premises, or
any other place shall be required to be vector-proofed when found to provide
harborage or breeding areas for vectors, upon written notice at least ten days
prior to an inspection thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, contractor, public
utility company, plumber, or any other person to remove and fail to restore in
like condition the vector-proofing from any building, structure, or accessory
structure for any purpose.
   (C)   Within ten days after notice, the owner may petition for a hearing by
the Borough Council with an opportunity for him or her to be present, to cross-
examine witnesses, and to receive a written decision to be rendered within 30
days after the hearing. An appeal of this decision may be filed with a court of
competent jurisdiction in accordance with the rules of civil procedure.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.054 PRIVATE VECTOR CONTROL PROGRAMS.
   (A)   A program plan and specifications for private vector control programs
shall be required to be submitted by the owner to the borough upon
determination of the necessity by the Police Department or codes enforcement
officer. Said determination shall be served on the owner personally or by
certified mail. Within ten days of said service, the owner may contest the
necessity of the program by requesting a hearing to be conducted in accordance
with §
91.053. Said program plan shall be submitted by the owner to the Borough
Council within 30 days of notice.
   (B)   The program plan shall state the type of vectors to be controlled, the
name of the company contracted to carry out the program, if any, and any and
all work to be conducted in an effort to control said vectors. The Police
Department or codes enforcement officer shall review the program plan. If the
plan is found to be inadequate or incomplete, additional information may be
required as well as additional control methods. The owner may request a hearing
on the determination in accordance with §
91.053.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.055 AUTHORITY TO ABATE VECTOR PROBLEMS.
   (A)   From and after passage of this chapter, the borough and/or a
representative of the vector control program is empowered to make periodic
inspections of the interior and exterior of all dwellings, buildings,
structures, and accessory structures, premises, collections of water, or any
other place to determine full compliance with this chapter, and to determine
evidence of vector infestation and the need for vector-proofing or additions or
repairs to existing vector-proofing.
   (B)   Whenever it shall be determined by the Borough Council that any
dwelling, building, structure, accessory structure, premises, collection of
water, or any other place is in violation of this chapter, a notice shall be
issued setting forth the alleged violation(s), and advising the owner,
occupant, operator, or agent that such violation(s) must be corrected. The time
for the correction of said violation(s) must be given as well as the necessary
methods to be employed in the correction.
   (C)   Whenever any violation(s) shall fail to be corrected within the time
set forth, and an extension of time is not deemed to be necessary, the borough
may proceed to abate the violation(s) in the manner provided by law.
   (D)   The owner shall have the right to appeal from said determination by a
hearing in accordance with §
91.053.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT
§ 91.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A roofed structure, enclosed by one or more walls, for the
shelter, housing, storage or enclosure of people, goods, materials, equipment,
or animals.
   COURT. An open and unoccupied space on a lot enclosed on at least three
sides by the walls of a building.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin, and/or other pests.
   LOT. Plot, tracts, premises, or parcel of land, with or without improvements
thereto.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, jointly or severally, firm, corporation, or
other entity which, either by conveyance or inheritance or otherwise, is vested
with the title to a lot and/or improvements thereto or who retains the
exclusive control of such a lot and/or improvements thereto in his or her
capacity as a legal representative, such as an administrator, trustee,
executor, and the like.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, dead animals, and market and industrial wastes.
   UNOCCUPIED HAZARD. Any building or part thereof, or human-made structure,
which remains unoccupied for a period of more than six months, with either
doors, windows, or other openings broken, removed, boarded, or sealed up, or
any building under construction upon which little or no construction work has
been performed for a period of more than six months.
   YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building and, for the most part,
unobstructed from the ground up.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.071 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall supplement local laws, ordinances, or
regulations existing in the borough or those of the state. Where a provision of
this chapter is found to be in conflict with any provision of a local law,
ordinance, code, or regulations or those of the state, the provisions which are
more restrictive or which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.072 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No owner of any building or structure shall fail to take steps and
perform such maintenance thereto, as may be required from time to time, to
ensure the property is safe, sound, sanitary, and secure and does not present a
health and/or safety hazard to surrounding properties and to the general
populace.
   (B)   No owner of any unoccupied building or structure shall fail to take
such steps as may be required to ensure that these are securely closed so as to
prohibit and deter entry thereto and to ensure that no health and/or safety
hazard, or threat thereof, is precipitated due to a lack of maintenance or due
to neglect.
   (C)   Owners of any and all unoccupied buildings and/or structures which,
through neglect, have deteriorated to the point of being classified as
unoccupied hazards, and therefore constitute a severe health and/or safety
hazard shall, upon direction of the Borough Council, remove or cause the
removal of the building and/or structure.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 YARDS, OPEN LOTS, AND PARKING AREAS.
   No person shall permit:
   (A)   Fences and/or minor structures to be constructed and maintained so as
to present a safety or health hazard to persons and/or property;
   (B)   The development or accumulation of hazards, rodent harborage, and/or
infestation upon yards, courts, or lots;
   (C)   Objectionable materials to accumulate and to be blown about the
surrounding neighborhood;
   (D)   Wells, cesspools, cisterns, sedimentation ponds, stormwater management
impoundment ponds and/or ponds of a similar nature to remain open without
adequate fencing or barricades to prevent access thereto by the general public;
or
   (E)   The accumulation of heavy undergrowth and/or vegetation which would
impair the health and/or safety of the neighborhood; nor shall they permit any
trees, plants, or shrubbery, or any portion thereof, to grow on their property
and which constitute a safety hazard to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 INFESTATION, PREVENTION, AND CORRECTION.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect,
vermin, and rodent harborage and infestation.
   (B)   Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the
collection, storage, handling, and disposal of garbage and refuse.
   (C)   Where there exists rodent and vermin infestation, correction measures
shall be undertaken by the property owner and/or occupant to alleviate the
existing problem(s), to include screening, extermination, and/or garbage and
refuse control. Methods employed for extermination shall conform with generally
accepted practices.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.075 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   No person shall permit:
   (A)   Roof, surface, and/or sanitary drainage to create a safety and/or
health hazard to persons and/or property by reason of inadequate and/or
improper construction, maintenance, or manner of discharge;
   (B)   Roof gutters, drains, or any other system designed and constructed to
transport stormwater to be discharged into any sanitary sewage system and/or
any part thereof; or
   (C)   Any refrigerator, freezer, and/or other similar storage chest to be
discarded, abandoned, or stored in any place or location which is accessible to
the general public without first completely removing any and all locking
devices and/or doors.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   Any occupant of a premises shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter with respect to the maintenance of that part of the
premises which he or she occupies and/or controls in a safe, sound, and/or
sanitary condition pursuant to the terms of the contract/agreement under which
he or she exercises occupancy and/or control thereof.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.077 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   The owner of premises shall comply with the provisions of this chapter
as well as operators and occupants, regardless of any agreements between owners
and operators or occupants as to which party shall assume such responsibility.
   (B)   In instances where an occupant is responsible, or shares
responsibility with an owner, for the existence of one or more violations of
this chapter, said occupant shall be deemed responsible and treated as if an
owner within the true intent and meaning of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.078 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Borough Council may, or may cause, through an authorized
representative of the borough, entry onto premises for the purpose of
inspection of any and all premises, properties, buildings, and/or structures
located within the borough for ascertaining the existence of violations.
   (B)   In those matters where the nature of an alleged violation is such that
an inspection of the interior of a building or structure is necessitated, prior
arrangements must be made with the owner or his or her agent to secure access
thereof.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.079 NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   If noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter constitutes a nuisance,
or if any condition, structure, or improvement poses a threat to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public, the Police Department shall issue a written
notice to be served by registered or certified mail upon the owner of said
premises, or, if the owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting the
notice conspicuously upon the offending premises. Said notice shall specify the
condition or structure or improvement complained of, and shall require the
owner to commence to remove or otherwise rectify the condition or structure or
improvement as set forth therein within ten days of mailing or posting of said
notice, and thereafter, to fully comply with the requirements of the notice
within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.080 AUTHORITY TO REMEDY NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner does not comply with the notice to abate the conditions within
the time limit prescribed, the borough shall have the authority to take
measures to correct the conditions and collect the cost of such corrections
plus 10% of all costs. The borough, in such event and pursuant to its statutory
or otherwise authorized police powers, shall have the right and power to enter
upon the offending premises to accomplish the foregoing.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.081 HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the local Police Department may
request and shall then be granted a hearing before the Borough Council;
provided, he or she files with the Borough Council within ten days after notice
of the Police Department’s decision, a written petition requesting such hearing
and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. The hearing shall
commence not later than 30 days after the date on which the petition was filed
unless postponed for sufficient cause. After such hearing, the Borough Council
shall sustain, modify, or overrule the action of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, operation, or organization violating any of the
provisions of §§
91.001 to
91.006 shall, upon conviction by the District Magistrate, pay a fine of $300
together with costs, and in default thereof shall be sentence to undergo
imprisonment for a period not to exceed two days.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
91.020 to
91.024,
91.035 to
91.039,
91.050 to
91.055, or
91.070 to
91.081 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not more than
$600, and in default of payment, to undergo imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of §§
91.020 to
91.024,
91.035 to
91.039,
91.050 to
91.055, or
91.070 to
91.081 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of §§
91.020 to
91.024,
91.035 to
91.039,
91.050 to
91.055, or
91.070 to
91.081, or any remedy provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive;
rather they may be employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of
the Borough Council.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-2-2006; Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Disorderly conduct
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISORDERLY CONDUCT. Any act, word, or conduct whereby there is made or
caused to be made any loud, boisterous, and unseemly noise or disturbance to
the annoyance of the peaceable residents nearby or near to any public highway,
road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common, whereby the public peace is
broken or disturbed or the traveling public annoyed.
   (B)   Disorderly conduct prohibited. All the foregoing offenses coming
within the definition of said disorderly conduct are hereby declared to be
unlawful.
(Ord. passed 1-27-1937) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating §
92.01 or causing or helping others to violate it shall commit an offense under
§
92.01 as a misdemeanor of the third degree if the intent of the actor is to
cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, or if he or she persists in
disorderly conduct after reasonable warning to request or desist. A conviction
for a misdemeanor in the third degree includes from six months to one year in
prison, and a fine of up to $2,500. Otherwise, disorderly conduct shall be
considered a summary offence, punishable by a maximum penalty of 90 days in
jail and a fine of not more than $300.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 18 Pa.C.S. § 5503
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk Regulations
   
93.01   Width of sidewalks
   
93.02   Paving and repairing sidewalks
   
93.03   Doors adjacent to sidewalks
   
93.04   Keeping sidewalks clean
   
93.05   Porches, steps, and other obstructions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 WIDTH OF SIDEWALKS.
   The width of all sidewalks or pavements within said borough shall not be
less than five feet, measuring from the building line.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-1-1907)
§ 93.02 PAVING AND REPAIRING SIDEWALKS.
   If any person or persons owning a lot or lots, or any real estate, shall
refuse or neglect to pave or repair his, her, or their respective sidewalks or
footways within 20 days after having received notice from the Street
Commissioner, or the Street Committee, to have the same done, then it shall
become the duty of the Street Commissioner to have the same done or cause it to
be done at the expense of the borough, whereupon the borough authorities shall
proceed, as provided by law to recover the amount so expended, with 20% aided
thereto as a penalty for such neglect or refusal, which sum or sums shall be
paid into the Borough Treasury for the use of the borough.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-1-1907)
§ 93.03 DOORS ADJACENT TO SIDEWALKS.
   All cellar doors or cellar ways shall be securely covered or protected with
a door or doors to shut even with the sidewalk, and the same shall be kept
safely closed at all times except when in actual use.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-1-1907) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 KEEPING SIDEWALKS CLEAN.
   Any person or persons neglecting to keep the sidewalks clean and the gutters
unobstructed in front of or adjoining his, her, or their premises, or refusing
or neglecting to remove ice, snow, or other similar temporary obstruction
within 24 hours after being notified by the Borough Agent to remove the same,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each
offense, and liable to prosecution for any damage to person or property that
may result from such neglect.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-1-1907) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 PORCHES, STEPS, AND OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No porches, steps, or any other obstructions of any character whatsoever
shall be placed or erected on the sidewalks or pavements on any street or alley
in the said borough after the passage of this chapter; neither shall any
porches, steps, or other obstructions now erected be enlarged after the passage
of this chapter.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-1-1907)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
93.03 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding before any District
Justice of the County, be punishable by a fine of not more that $300 and costs
of prosecution for each and every offense, or, upon default in payment of the
fine and costs not caused by indigence or lack of sufficient assets, by
imprisonment in the county prison for a period not to exceed 30 days. Each day
that such violation is continued shall constitute a new and separate offense,
punishable by like fine, penalty, or imprisonment.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 34 Pa. Code § 7.98
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Outdoor Furnaces
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Regulations
   
94.04   Enforcement
   
94.05   Grandfather clause
Outdoor Burning
   
94.20   Storage and outdoor burning restrictions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
OUTDOOR FURNACES
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish and impose restrictions upon
the construction and operation of outdoor furnaces within the limits of the
borough for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity of the borough and its
inhabitants. It is generally recognized that the types of fuel used and the
scale and duration of the burning by such furnace create noxious and hazardous
smoke, soot, fumes, odor, air pollution, particles, and other products of
combustion that can be detrimental to citizens’ health, and can deprive
neighboring residents of the enjoyment of their property or premises.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR FURNACE. Any equipment, device, apparatus, or structure or any part
thereof which is installed, affixed, or situated outdoors for the purpose of
combustion of any type of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system providing heat for an interior space or water source.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 94.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 40 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of any other adjacent property owner’s structure
and shall have a chimney stack of at least 20 feet and/or at least two feet
above the roof line of the highest structure within 200 feet, when installed.
Said chimney stack shall also have a spark arrester installed on top.
   (B)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 20 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of the property line of another property owner.
   (C)   An area of 20 feet around the outdoor furnace structure shall be free
of vegetation, except grass not exceeding four inches in height.
   (D)   The minimum required lot size for an outdoor furnace is 40,000 square
feet.
   (E)   No other fuel other than natural wood without additive, wood pellets
without additive, and agricultural seeds in their natural state may be burned.
Processed wood products and other non-wood products, recyclable material,
plastics, rubber, paper products, garbage, and painted or treated wood are
prohibited.
   (F)   Furnaces are prohibited to burn between May 1 and September 30.
   (G)   Outdoor furnaces which are designed to heat structures that are 10%
greater than the size of the structure(s) to be heated are not permitted.
   (H)   Outdoor furnaces and associated installation shall be subject to
inspection by the zoning enforcement officer and building codes enforcement
officer at any reasonable time to assure compliance of terms hereof.
   (I)   Outdoor furnace installation is subject to the permit provisions of
the zoning and building code ordinances, including furnishing the following
information:
      (1)   A drawing providing and identifying all of the information
necessary to assure compliance herewith, including property lines, location of
the neighboring properties and structures, height of nearby buildings, and the
like;
      (2)   Manufacturer’s specifications for the outdoor furnace; and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable state and federal statutes,
including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Underwriter’s
Laboratory (UL) listing.
   (J)   Nothing contained herein shall authorize any installation that is a
public or private nuisance, regardless of compliance herewith.
   (K)   This subchapter shall not be a defense to any civil claims.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If noncompliance with the provisions of this subchapter constitutes a
nuisance, or if any condition poses a threat to the health, safety, or welfare
of the public, the Police Department shall issue a written notice to be served
by registered or certified mail upon the owner of said premises, or, if the
owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting the notice conspicuously
upon the offending premises.
   (B)   Said notice shall specify the condition complained of, and shall
require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise rectify the condition as
set forth therein within the ten days of mailing or posting of said notice, and
thereafter, to fully comply with the requirements of the notice within a
reasonable time.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 94.05 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to be retroactive and shall not
require the removal of any outdoor furnace in existence within the borough at
the effective date of this subchapter. All outdoor furnaces in existence at the
effective date of this subchapter shall have or must erect a flue or chimney in
accordance with the height requirements contained herein. If an outdoor furnace
is more than 50% torn down, damaged, deteriorated, or otherwise reduced to 50%
of its original design, any rebuilding or restoration of said outdoor furnace
shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007)
OUTDOOR BURNING
§ 94.20 STORAGE AND OUTDOOR BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall accumulate or store out of doors upon
any public or private ground within the borough, any rubbish or other flammable
material. No person shall burn any rubbish, leaves, or other material which
gives off obnoxious or unpleasant odors or otherwise pollute the air of the
borough. Nor shall any person burn paper, leaves, cardboard, or other material
upon any private ground in the borough except in metal receptacles, stoves, or
fireplaces constructed for that purpose, covered by a grating of no less than
one-half inch mesh or smaller to prevent the escape of burning materials.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
94.01 to
94.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not more than
$600, and in default of payment, to undergo imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of §§
94.01 to
94.05 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
94.20 shall be, upon conviction thereof, sentenced to pay a fine not more than
$500 plus costs, and in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 6-12-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Curfew established
   
130.02   Guardian responsibility
   
130.03   Procedure for minors violating curfew
   
130.04   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be unlawful for persons under the age of 16 years to be or remain
in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or public places in the borough
at night after the hour of 10:00 p.m., unless such person is accompanied by a
parent, guardian, or other person having the legal custody of such person.
(Ord. 3-1972, passed 8-18-1972) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 GUARDIAN RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having
the legal care or custody of any person under the age of 16 years to allow or
permit any such person, while in such custody, to go or be in or upon any of
the streets, alleys, parks, or public places in the borough after the hour of
10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 3-1972, passed 8-18-1972) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PROCEDURE FOR MINORS VIOLATING CURFEW.
   Any person under the age of 16 years found upon the borough streets, alleys,
parks, or public places within the borough in violation of §
130.01 shall be taken into custody by the Borough Police and delivered to his
or her parents, guardian, or person having the legal custody of such person,
and report thereof made immediately to the Secretary of the Borough Council,
who shall make a record thereof in a book to be kept for that purpose.
(Ord. 3-1972, passed 8-18-1972)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The police officers of the borough in taking persons into custody under this
subchapter shall use their discretion in determining age, and in doubtful cases
may require positive proof, and until such proof is furnished, the officer’s
judgment shall prevail.
(Ord. 3-1972, passed 8-18-1972)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$1,000, or 90 days in the county jail, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   If said parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of such
person under the age of 16 years shall again allow him or her to be on said
streets, alleys, parks, or public places in violation of §
130.01, said parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of such
person under the age of 16 years, so offending shall, upon conviction thereof
before a Justice of the Peace, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $5,
nor less than $1 and costs, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs,
to be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than five days at the
discretion of the Justice of the Peace, and a like fine or imprisonment shall
be imposed upon any person aiding or abetting in the violation of the intent
and purpose of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-1972, passed 8-18-1972)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING PERMITS
      
151.   STREET EXCAVATIONS
      
152.   BUILDING CODES
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING PERMITS
Section
   
150.01   Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency regulations
§ 150.01 LAUREL MUNICIPAL INSPECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   For provisions and regulations related to building permits, the Laurel
Municipal Inspection Agency’s (LMIA) current land usage guidelines shall govern
the borough. The LMIA shall enforce these regulations.
CHAPTER 151: STREET EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency regulations
Cross-reference:
   Building codes, see
Ch. 152
   Building permits, see
Ch. 150
   Vehicle regulations, see
Ch. 70
§ 151.01 LAUREL MUNICIPAL INSPECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   For provisions and regulations related to building permits, the Laurel
Municipal Inspection Agency’s (LMIA) current land usage guidelines shall govern
the borough. The LMIA shall enforce these regulations.
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
152.01   Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency regulations
§ 152.01 LAUREL MUNICIPAL INSPECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   For provisions and regulations related to building permits, the Laurel
Municipal Inspection Agency’s (LMIA) current land usage guidelines shall govern
the borough. The LMIA shall enforce these regulations.
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency regulations
§ 153.01 LAUREL MUNICIPAL INSPECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   For provisions and regulations related to building permits, the Laurel
Municipal Inspection Agency’s (LMIA) current land usage guidelines shall govern
the borough. The LMIA shall enforce these regulations.
CHAPTER 154: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
154.01   Laurel Municipal Inspection Agency regulations
§ 154.01 LAUREL MUNICIPAL INSPECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   For provisions and regulations related to building permits, the Laurel
Municipal Inspection Agency’s (LMIA) current land usage guidelines shall govern
the borough. The LMIA shall enforce these regulations.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed   Description
No.
Ord.    - -      Agreement for the collection of refuse
Ord.    - -      Fixing the license fee for telegraph and telephone poles in
                 the borough
Ord.    10-25-   Granting a franchise to a telegraph company
        1900
Ord.    - -1903  Granting the right to lay and maintain railway tracks on the
                 streets in the borough
Ord.    4-1-1918 Agreement for electric power service
Ord.    4-24-    Granting the right to lay and maintain railway tracks on
        1918     streets in the borough
Ord.    11-1-    Agreement for electric power service
        1923
Ord.    12-18-   Granting a franchise to a water supply company
        1951
Ord.    5-20-    Approval of stream clearance project
        1955
Res.    6-14-    Agreement for channel improvement services
        1955
Ord.    7-12-    Agreement for emergency storm clearance work
        1955
Ord.    8-31-    Agreement to reconstruct a retaining wall
        1963
Res. 1  11-14-   Agreement with the state concerning the administration of
        1967     health laws
Ord.    12-26-   Agreement for railroad construction
        1968
Ord. 2- 4-10-    Amendment for television franchise agreement
1984    1984
Res.    5-21-    Agreement to join the Forest Hills Municipal Authority
        1996
Ord.    8-1-2001 Agreement for police services
Ord.    12-10-   Agreement for sewer line video camera inspection system
        2002     equipment
Res.    11-9-    Intergovernmental agreement for services
        2004
Ord. 1- 7-12-    Authorization to participate in the Forest Hills Regional
2005    2005     Alliance
Res. 3- 9-13-    Granting a cable television franchise
2005    2005
Ord. 2- 11-8-    Intergovernmental cooperation agreement to share equipment
2005    2005
Res. 3- 6-13-    Intergovernmental agreement for police resources
2006    2006
Ord.    7-11-    Cable television franchise agreement
        2006
Ord.    11-14-   Agreement for the collection of refuse
        2006
Ord.    10-9-    Agreement for emergency management services
        2007
Ord. 1- 4-8-2008 Intergovernmental cooperation establishing a police service
2008             agreement
Ord.    9-1-2009 Intergovernmental agreement concerning trash collection
Ord.    12-14-   Intergovernmental agreement for garbage collection
        2009
Ord. 2- 9-1-2010 Authorizing the execution of a solar energy schedule with
2011             American Municipal Power, Inc.
Ord. 1- 4-12-    Authorizing the execution of an EDI Landfill Energy Schedule
2011    2011     with American Municipal Power, Inc.
Ord. 3- 5-10-    Authorizing the execution of a power sales contract
2011    2011
Ord. 5- 1-2-2012 Intergovernmental agreement concerning Construction Code
2011             enforcement
Res. 1- 1-3-2012 Intergovernmental agreement concerning code enforcement
2012
Res. 2- 1-3-2012 Intergovernmental agreement concerning Property Maintenance
2012             Code enforcement
Ord.    4-10-    Authorizing the Blue Creek Wind Energy Schedule to American
        2012     Municipal Power, Inc.
Res. 4- 4-10-    Authorizing the execution of the Blue Creek Wind Energy
2012    2012     Schedule
Ord.    10-9-    Agreement for collection of refuse
        2012
Res. 1- 4-9-2013 Authorizing the execution of a power sales contract
2013
Ord. 1- 2-11-    Authorizing and establishing a police service agreement
2014    2014
Res. 1- 6-14-    Authorizing the execution of a power sales contract with
2016    2016     American Municipal Power, Inc.
Ord. 1- 12-12-   Intergovernmental agreement concerning garbage collection
2017    2017
Res. 2- 10-9-    Approving the proposed bylaw amendments, strategic plan, and
2018    2018     due structure for the state’s municipal electric association
Res. 1- 1-8-2019 Agreement
2019
Res. 2- 2-12-    Authorization to execute a power sales contract
2019    2019
Res.             Authorization to enter contracts and agreements for the
2020-   - -2020  performance of public work as may be required in response to
                 COVID- 19
Res.    2-11-    Authorizing the submission of an application to the municipal
2020-1  2020     assistance program
Res. 2- 3-10-    Authorizing the submission of an application to the municipal
2020    2020     assistance program
Res. 3- 3-10-    Authorizing the execution of the 2022-2025 remaining
2020    2020     requirements of the solar energy schedule with American
                 Municipal Power, Inc.
Res. 4- 3-10-    Schedule pertaining to agreement with American Municipal
2020    2020     Power, Inc.
Res.    10-11-   Intergovernmental agreement with Croyle Township regarding the
2022-11 2022     purchase and use of crack sealer machine
Res.    11-8-    Authorizing the execution of the 2022 solar energy schedule
2022-03 2022     with American Municipal Power, Inc.
                
 
TABLE II: PROPERTY TRANSFERS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 2-1972   1-11-1972   Conveyance of a parcel of land
Ord. 5-1979   8-14-1979   Vacating a portion of former Legislative Route No.
                          11022
Ord. 1-1989   9-12-1989   Accepting a portion of Mill Street into the borough
Ord. 1-2007   2-13-2007   Vacation of an unopened alley
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cites Code Section
P.S. Cites                           Code Section
3 P.S. §§ 459-101 et seq.          90.01,
                                     90.06
35 P.S. §§ 750 et seq.             51.09
53 P.S. Ch. 14B                      51.01
53 P.S. § 10101                     30.15,
                                     31.04
53 P.S. §§ 6901 et seq.            32.033
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 through 6924.9032.056
                                     32.055,
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.        32.063,
                                     32.065
53 P.S. §§ 6926.302 et seq.        32.036
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.            32.039
72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq.          32.041
72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq.          32.031
72 P.S. § 8102-D                    32.036
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Cites Code Section
Pa.C.S. Cites             Code Section
2 Pa.C.S. § 551          30.53
2 Pa.C.S. § 751          30.53
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.10.02,
                          32.086
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5       10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 33210.99
18 Pa.C.S. § 5530        92.99
                          70.12,
                          70.99,
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seqCh. 71, Schd. I,
                          Ch. 71, Schd. II,
                          Ch. 72, Schd. I
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
 
Pa. Code Cites     Code Section
34 Pa. Code § 7.9893.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        6-14-1955   TSO Table I
1        11-14-1967  TSO Table I
1992-01  12-8-1992   Ch. 71 Schd. III
-        5-21-1996   TSO Table I
-        3-9-2004    52.25
-        11-9-2004   TSO Table I
3-2005   9-13-2005   TSO Table I
                     32.030 –
1-2006   4-11-2006   32.035,
                     32.037 –
                     32.041
3-2006   6-13-2006   TSO Table I
4-2006   7-11-2006   31.01
6-2006   12-12-2006  32.036
1-2010   11-9-2010   31.04
1-2011   6-14-2011   51.09
2-2011   10-11-2011  32.001
3-2011   10-11-2011  32.002
4-2011   11-8-2011   32.055 –
                     32.058
1-2012   1-3-2012    TSO Table I
2-2012   1-3-2012    TSO Table I
4-2012   4-10-2012   TSO Table I
1-2013   1-8-2013    31.03
1-2013   4-9-2013    TSO Table I
-        1-6-2014    31.05
1-2016   6-14-2016   TSO Table I
2-2018   10-9-2018   TSO Table I
1-2019   1-8-2019    TSO Table I
2-2019   2-12-2019    
                     TSO Table I
2020-    - -2020     TSO Table I
2020-1   2-11-2020   TSO Table I
2-2020   3-10-2020   TSO Table I
3-2020   3-10-2020   TSO Table I
4-2020   3-10-2020   TSO Table I
2022-10  8-9-2022    30.01
2022-04  6-21-2022   32.002
2022-11  10-11-2022  TSO Table I
2022-03  11-8-2022   TSO Table I
2022-12  12-13-2022  31.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        10-25-1900  TSO Table I
-        - -1903     TSO Table I
13       3-1-1907    93.01 –
                     93.05
15       3-1-1907    90.08,
                     90.99
-        4-1-1918    TSO Table I
-        4-24-1918   TSO Table I
                     70.01 –
-        5-17-1922   70.11,
                     70.99
-        11-1-1923   TSO Table I
-        1-27-1937   92.01
-        12-18-1951  TSO Table I
-        5-20-1955   TSO Table I
-        7-12-1955   TSO Table I
2-1960   5-10-1960   Ch. 71 Schd. III
                     52.01 –
                     52.18,
10-1963  6-11-1963   52.20,
                     52.22,
                     52.23,
                     52.99
-        8-31-1963   TSO Table I
                     90.20 –
13-1964  2-11-1964   90.22,
                     90.24,
                     90.99
                     32.059 –
17-1966  4-12-1966   32.070,
                     32.999
-        12-26-1968  TSO Table I
2-1970   11-10-1970  Ch. 72 Schd. I
2-1972   1-11-1972   TSO Table II
                     130.01 –
3-1972   8-18-1972   130.04,
                     130.99
-        1-25-1973   Ch. 71 Schd. III
                     32.085 –
2-1973   2-13-1973   32.094,
                     32.999
2-1975   7- -1975    52.19
3-1976   9-14-1976   Ch. 72 Schd. I
2-1979   5-8-1979    70.12,
                     70.99
5-1979   8-14-1979   TSO Table II
2-1980   5-13-1980   30.01
1-1981   8-11-1981   70.30
1-1982   8-10-1982   30.34 –
                     30.37
2-1984   4-10-1984   TSO Table I
2-1986   2-11-1986   30.30 –
                     30.33
2-1988   12-13-1988  Ch. 71 Schd. I
1-1989   9-12-1989   TSO Table II
2-1991   10-8-1991   52.05
1992-2   12-8-1992   Ch. 71 Schd. I
1-1993   4-1-1993    Ch. 72 Schd. I
2-1993   12-14-1993  32.015
                     51.20 –
2-1995   5-13-1995   51.28,
                     51.99
4-1995   7-11-1995   Ch. 71 Schd. I
97-1     3-11-1997   52.22
                     51.01 –
2-1997   12-9-1997   51.08,
                     51.99
1998-1   9-8-1998    Ch. 71 Schd. I
2-1999   11-9-1999   30.15 –
                     30.18
-        8-1-2001    TSO Table I
-        12-10-2002  TSO Table I
3-2004   8-10-2004   Ch. 71 Schd. II
                     90.01 –
5-2004   10-12-2004  90.07,
                     90.99
1-2005   7-12-2005   TSO Table I
2-2005   11-8-2005   TSO Table I
                     91.020 –
                     91.024,
                     91.035 –
                     91.039,
1-2006   1-2-2006    91.050 –
                     91.055,
                     91.070 –
                     91.081,
                     91.999
-        7-11-2006   TSO Table I
-        11-14-2006  TSO Table I
4-2006   11-14-2006  Ch. 72 Schd. I
1-2007   2-13-2007   TSO Table II
                     94.01 –
2-2007   6-12-2007   94.05,
                     94.20,
                     94.99
-        10-9-2007   TSO Table I
3-2007   11-13-2007  Ch. 72 Schd. I
1-2008   4-8-2008    TSO Table I
2-2009   4-14-2009   52.26
-        9-1-2009    TSO Table I
3-2009   12-8-2009   50.01 –
                     50.06
-        12-14-2009  TSO Table I
1-2010   1-4-2010    30.02
2-2011   9-1-2010    TSO Table I
1-2011   4-12-2011   TSO Table I
3-2011   5-10-2011   TSO Table I
4-2011   12-13-2011  50.99
5-2011   1-2-2012    TSO Table I
-        4-10-2012   TSO Table I
-        10-9-2012   TSO Table I
2-2013   11-12-2013  30.50 –
                     30.53
                     91.001 –
3-2013   12-10-2013  91.006,
                     91.999
1-2014   2-11-2014   TSO Table I
1-2017   12-12-2017  TSO Table I
2-2018   7-10-2018   32.042
2022-11  11-8-2022   32.016
2023-01  2-14-2023   90.23
                    
 
 
