TOWNSHIP OF SUMMERHILL,
PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. No. 81, passed 2-5-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   Amendments and supplements; numbering
   
10.03   Definitions and interpretation
   
10.04   Separability of provisions
   
10.05   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.06   Exemptions from repeal
 
   
10.99   General code penalty; complicity
§ 10.01  DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   This volume consists of all ordinances and resolutions of a general
and permanent nature of the municipality, as revised, codified, arranged,
numbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections,
and as such shall be known and designated as the “codified ordinances of
Summerhill Township”, for which designation “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to titles, chapters and sections are to such components
of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation section symbol (“§”) followed by
the number, such as “§
10.01”.
§ 10.02  AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS; NUMBERING.
   (A)   The codified ordinances of Summerhill Township may be amended or
supplemented at any time and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Supervisors to make the
same a part thereof, such amendment or supplement shall be incorporated in, and
deemed a part of, the codified ordinances, so that a reference to the codified
ordinances shall be understood and construed as including the codified
ordinances of Summerhill Township and any and all such amendments and
supplements.
   (B)   All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the codified
ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan set forth as follows: each title shall be subdivided into chapters,
and each chapter shall be subdivided into sections, which shall be numbered in
accordance with the decimal numbering system. The numbering of all sections,
except penalty sections, shall be consecutive within each chapter commencing
with the first section of Chapter 10, which shall be numbered 10.01, the first
“10” signifying the chapter number within the code, and the two figures “01”
after the decimal signifying the first section in Chapter 10 of the code.
Penalty sections shall be designated “99” and shall be the last section of a
chapter.
§ 10.03  DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   In the construction of the codified ordinances, the following rules and
definitions shall control, excepting those inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Board of Supervisors as disclosed in a particular provision,
section or chapter. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the municipality adopting the codified
ordinances of Summerhill Township in conformity with the Second Class Township
Code.
   AUTHORITY. Whenever, in the codified ordinances, AUTHORITY is given to an
officer or an act is required to be performed, such AUTHORITY may be exercised
and such act may be performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy or
subordinate, unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any such
particular provision.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The legislative authority of the township.
   CALENDAR; COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the calendar
month or year. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
   CONJUNCTIONS.AND includes OR and OR includes AND, if the sense so requires.
   COUNTY. The County of Cambria, Pennsylvania.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine shall extend and be applied to the
feminine and neuter genders.
   GENERAL RULE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, words and
phrases shall be construed according to the common usage of the language;
provided, however, that technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a special meaning in the law shall be construed according to such
technical or special meaning.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving authority to a board, commission, authority or
to three or more officers or employees or other persons shall be construed as
giving authority to a majority thereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
co-partnerships, whether acting themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND and REAL ESTATE. Include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. All applicable laws of the United States of America and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   MUNICIPALITY. Summerhill Township, Pennsylvania.
   NUMBER. Words in the plural include the singular and words in the singular
include the plural.
   OATH. Includes affirmation. When an OATH is required or authorized by law,
an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious
scruples about taking an oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and
effect as an OATH.
   ORDINANCE. Includes any ordinance of the municipality, including any
provision of these codified ordinances.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of such property.
   PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes land
and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except real property; REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   PUBLISH. To print in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
the entire document or a brief summary thereof with a listing of places where
copies have been filed and times when they are available for inspection.
   REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be done
or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such act or the
giving of such notice.
   RESIDENCE. An abode in which a person permanently resides.
   RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. A determination of policy or effect
of law formalized of Summerhill Township by vote of the Board of Supervisors.
   SECOND CLASS TOWNSHIP CODE. The Second Class Township Code of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, being the Act of May 1, 1933 (P.L. 103, No. 69),
re-enacted and amended November 9, 1995 (P.L. 350, No. 60), as amended, being
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
   SHALL and MAY.SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state highways
and other public ways in the municipality.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
   TENSES. The use of any verb in the present tense includes the future.
   TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or a legal holiday, such time shall
not expire on such day but shall expire on the next week day.
   TOWNSHIP. The Municipality of Summerhill, Pennsylvania.
   UNIT. Any governmental entity of the municipality.
§ 10.04  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section and each part of each section of these codified ordinances,
including each section and each part of each section of any standard technical
code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such section or part of a section, or any
provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to which it is held invalid or
unconstitutional, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that these codified ordinances would have been
adopted independently of such section or part of a section so held to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 10.05  SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the municipality, and
parts of the same, in conflict with any of the provisions of these codified
ordinances, are hereby repealed.
§ 10.06  EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.05 shall not affect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the municipality, or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
   (C)   The administrative ordinances and resolutions of the Board of
Supervisors not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of these
codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of the Board of Supervisors on any person;
   (E)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing, naming, relocating or
vacating any street or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or resolution or part thereof providing for the
establishment of positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing or changing the boundaries of
the municipality; or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors after
the adoption of these codified ordinances.
§ 10.99  GENERAL CODE PENALTY; COMPLICITY.
   (A)   All township ordinances previously enacted which provide for fines for
violation of a building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public
safety code or ordinance, and for water, air and noise pollution violations,
and for the violation of any other township ordinance shall hereinafter be
enforced in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the township before a
District Justice with jurisdiction. Notice of such civil enforcement proceeding
shall be made in accordance with the applicable Pennsylvania Rules of Civil
Procedure. If a defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
municipality may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable Rules of Civil
Procedure.
   (B)   For all township ordinances governing a building, housing, property
maintenance, health, fire or public safety code, and for water, air and noise
pollution violations, each such violation shall carry a fine not exceeding
$1,000 per day during which such violation shall continue, plus all court costs
and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the
violation. For all other township ordinances, the maximum fine shall be not
more than $600 per day during every day in which such violation shall continue.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
      
32.   TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
      
33.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   TOWNSHIP POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Articles of incorporation
§ 30.01  ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
   In compliance with the requirements of the Municipal Authorities Act, being
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., as amended, the Board of Supervisors of the
Township of Summerhill, a municipal corporation of the County of Cambria and
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, desiring to organize an authority thereunder,
does hereby certify:
   (A)   The name of the Authority is “The Municipal Authority of the Township
of Summerhill”;
   (B)   Said Authority is formed under the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as
amended and supplemented;
   (C)   No other authority organized under the said Act of May 2, 1945, as
amended and supplemented, or by any previous Act of Assembly authorizing and
regulating municipal authorities, is in existence in or for the incorporating
municipality, the said Township of Summerhill, County of Cambria and
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania;
   (D)   The project or projects to be undertaken by said Authority shall be
projects permitted and authorized by the laws of the commonwealth as the
township may from time to time by resolution or ordinance specify.
(Ord. 15, passed 4-19-1970)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWNSHIP BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Section
   
31.01   Board meetings
   
31.02   Supervisor compensation
§ 31.01  BOARD MEETINGS.
   Public comment at regular or special meetings shall be governed by the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   A period of public comment shall be held at each meeting.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board shall preside over the public comment
period and may within his or her discretion:
      (1)   Recognize individuals wishing to offer comment;
      (2)   Require identification of such persons, as to name, address and
whether a resident and/or taxpayer;
      (3)   Allocate available time among individuals wishing to comment;
      (4)   Rule out of order scandalous, impertinent and redundant comment or
any comment the discernible purpose of which is to disrupt or prevent the
conduct of the business of the meeting; and
      (5)   Any group shall have one spokesperson.
   (C)   The time allocated for the public comment period at each meeting shall
be 15 minutes, with no one person having more than five minutes, unless
otherwise changed by resolution of the Board.
   (D)   In the event that there is insufficient time for public comment at a
meeting, the Board, at its discretion, may defer the public comment period to a
meeting held in advance of the next regular or special meeting or until the
next regular or special meeting.
(Res. 109, passed 8-18-1993)
§ 31.02  SUPERVISOR COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The compensation of each of the Supervisors of the township is
hereby fixed at $156.25 per month, payable monthly, from the general funds of
the township, the said township having at the present time 1,459 registered
voters therein; provided, no compensation shall be paid in any month to any
Supervisor who has failed to attend at least one regular meeting of the Board
of Supervisors for that month.
      (2)   This division (A) is pursuant to action taken at a meeting of the
Supervisors held December 5, 1995 and shall take effect January 1, 1996 and the
first monthly compensation payable hereunder shall be for the month of January,
1996.
   (B)   Such compensation shall be paid in monthly installments.
   (C)   Compensation will not be paid for meetings not attended.
(Ord. 32, eff. 1-1-1986; Ord. 43, passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Non-uniformed pension plan
   
32.02   Cap on hours for part-time and per diem workers
§ 32.01  NON-UNIFORMED PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township (the “employer”) has
previously enacted an ordinance establishing the Township Non-Uniformed Pension
Plan (the “Plan”).
   (B)   The Plan, copies of which are on file in the township office, is
adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(Ord. 80, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 32.02  CAP ON HOURS FOR PART-TIME AND PER DIEM WORKERS.
   A cap of 1,000 hours a year for part-time and per diem workers has been
adopted by the Board of Supervisors, which will run from January 1 to December
31 of each year. This means that once a part-time or per diem worker has worked
1,000 hours, his or her employment with the township will be ended for that
fiscal year.
(Res. 110, passed 9-1-1993)
CHAPTER 33:  TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Forest Hills Planning Commission
   
33.01   Membership
   
33.02   Expenses
   
33.03   Administrative authorizations
   
33.04   General authorization of duties
   
33.05   Specific authorization
   
33.06   Articles of incorporation
County Sanitation Committee
   
33.35   Purpose
   
33.36   Grant of power
   
33.37   Definitions
   
33.38   Sanitation Committee creation
   
33.39   Powers and duties of the Sanitation Committee
   
33.40   Term of participation; new members; amendments
FOREST HILLS PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01  MEMBERSHIP.
   The Forest Hills Planning Commission shall be comprised of a total of six
voting members, three of whom shall be appointed by the Township Supervisors
and three of whom shall be appointed by the Wilmore Borough Council. Members
shall be staggered with the township appointing members to five-, three- and
one-year terms and Wilmore Borough appointing members to terms of five-, three-
and one- year terms. Each municipality may appoint any number of non-voting
“advisory” members who shall be entitled to attend and participate in all
meetings of the Joint Municipal Planning Commission, including executive
sessions.
(Ord. 52, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 33.02  EXPENSES.
   Each municipality may contribute to the expenses of the Joint Municipal
Planning Commission. The amount of contribution, if any, shall be in the sole
discretion of each municipality, and no right shall exist to compel a
contribution of any amount. The sole exception shall be that if a municipality
assigns specific review functions to the Joint Planning Commission, the Joint
Municipal Planning Commission is hereby authorized to adopt charges for such
reviews as will cover its costs of review.
(Ord. 52, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 33.03  ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORIZATIONS.
   The Joint Municipal Planning Commission shall adopt such by-laws, elect
officers and establish such rules and procedures for operation as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes set forth in the
Municipalities Planning Code, or such duties as may be specifically assigned in
the future by either municipality.
(Ord. 52, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 33.04  GENERAL AUTHORIZATION OF DUTIES.
   The Joint Municipal Planning Commission shall carry out all duties normally
conducted by Planning Commissions and particularly all those duties set forth
in Article XI of the Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 11101 et
seq.
(Ord. 52, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 33.05  SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Joint Municipal Planning Commission shall within three months of
organization begin the examination of the possible consolidation of Wilmore
Borough and the township and such other local municipalities as might
appropriately be considered.
   (B)   Consolidation shall include, in addition to its regularly accepted
meaning, changes in government or sharing of services.
   (C)   The Joint Municipal Planning Commission shall within 12 months of
organization prepare a report on such consolidation.
(Ord. 52, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 33.06  ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
   The articles of incorporation of the Forest Hills Municipal Authority are
amended to read as hereinafter set forth in full: the said Authority shall be
in existence for a term of 50 years from January 6, 1998.
(Res. 140, passed 2-3-1998)
COUNTY SANITATION COMMITTEE
§ 33.35  PURPOSE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township finds it desirable to enact this
subchapter to:
   (A)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents and landlords
of the township; and
   (B)   Create a multi-municipal local agency for the administration of the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as amended,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 33.36  GRANT OF POWER.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to power granted in:
   (A)   The Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act 537 of 1966 (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   The Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law, Act 394 of 1937 (35 P.S. §§ 691.1
et seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time; and
   (C)   The Pennsylvania Local Agency Law (2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 551 and 751) as
amended, or as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 33.37  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act 537 of 1966 (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time.
   BOARD. The governing body of the Committee through which all policy making
powers granted to the Committee are exercised.
   CHAPTER 71, 72  or  73 . Regulations adopted pursuant to the Act and more
specifically identified as Pa. Code Title 25, Environmental Resources.
   COMMITTEE. The Cambria County Sanitation Committee, the entity created by
this subchapter.
   DEPARTMENT. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Supervisors of the Township of Summerhill,
Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   MULTI-MUNICIPAL LOCAL AGENCY (MMLA). The Cambria County Sanitation
Committee, the entity created by the adoption of this subchapter; the
Committee.
   TOWNSHIP. Summerhill Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 33.38  SANITATION COMMITTEE CREATION.
   The governing body hereby:
   (A)   Creates, constitutes and establishes the Sanitation Committee for the
purposes described above;
   (B)   (1)   As soon as possible, but not later than 30 days after the
adoption of this subchapter, every member shall, by action of its governing
body, appoint a representative and, at its option, may also appoint an
alternate representative to the Board.
      (2)   Each representative and alternate shall be an individual who must
be:
         (a)   A member of the governing body of the member municipality that
he or she represents; or
         (b)   The Municipal Secretary.
   (C)   Conveys to the Sanitation Committee the enforcement and administration
of all three aspects of the Act and regulations;
   (D)   Directs the Board to, at all times, act in a manner consistent with
the Act and regulations and the additional provisions in this subchapter;
   (E)   Authorizes and directs the Sanitation Committee to act on behalf of
the governing body through the appointed officers/Board to issue, deny or
revoke permits, conduct inspections, abate nuisances and health hazards arising
from malfunctioning on-lot disposal systems, conduct hearings, prosecute
violators and apply for operating grants from the Department or any other
entity; and
   (F)   Directs the Board to establish, and, further, pledges to pay in a
timely manner, initial and annual membership fees adequate to provide the
Sanitation Committee with liquid fiscal resources to establish itself and
continue to operate while awaiting receipt of reimbursement grants from the
Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 33.39  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE SANITATION COMMITTEE.
   In addition to the powers and duties enumerated above, the Sanitation
Committee shall:
   (A)   Prepare and adopt by-laws that:
      (1)   Define the method by which (future) Committee representatives will
be appointed;
      (2)   Set forth the method by which the Committee will conduct business;
      (3)   Establish a quorum for the conduct of business;
      (4)   Establish meeting times and dates;
      (5)   Define the manner in which vacancies will be filled;
      (6)   Create any necessary subcommittees;
      (7)   Establish fees for the various permits and services performed by
the Committee or its staff; and
      (8)   Create a Hearing Board to conduct hearings regarding permit denials
and other SEO actions.
   (B)   Prepare and adopt an annual budget;
   (C)   Prepare an annual application to obtain a reimbursement grant from the
Department;
   (D)   Prepare and submit annual reports to participating municipalities;
   (E)   Hire, fire, promote and discipline personnel necessary to conduct the
business of the Committee and set their rates of compensation;
   (F)   Create a package of employee benefits, including:
      (1)   Sick and/or vacation leave and/or paid holidays; and
      (2)   Health and/or life and/or disability insurance.
   (G)   Create an employees’ manual containing job descriptions,
qualifications for employment and pay scales; and
   (H)   Secure by contract, or other arrangement, legal counsel and the
services of other professionals, as may be necessary or desirable to advance
the work of the Committee.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
§ 33.40  TERM OF PARTICIPATION; NEW MEMBERS; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The participation in the Committee by the governing body shall begin
on the effective date of this subchapter, and shall continue for a period of at
least two years. Such participation shall include the fulfillment of all
responsibilities including payment of assessments, costs, fees and expenses.
   (B)   After the expiration of the aforesaid two-year period, the governing
body may, upon 90 days written notice to the Board, withdraw from the Committee
through the repeal of this subchapter.
      (1)   During the intervals between receipt of written notice pursuant to
division (B)(2) below and the actual date of withdrawal, the Committee shall
not accept, process or otherwise act upon new applications for on-lot sewage
disposal systems in the municipality which has served notice of intent to
withdraw.
      (2)   The Committee shall notify interested parties and applicants of the
impending change of administration and will, to the best of its ability, refer
interested parties to the succeeding SEO/MMLA.
      (3)   All applications in progress, when notice of intent to withdraw is
received, shall be advanced through issuance/denial in a timely manner and, in
all cases, before the withdrawal becomes effective.
      (4)   The repeal of this subchapter shall take place five days after the
adoption or enactment of any repealing ordinance; however, it shall be
effective no less than 90 days following notice described in division (B)(1)
above.
   (C)   After the effective date of this subchapter, any municipality may
choose to become a member by adopting this subchapter in full.
      (1)   All work on an application for an on-lot sewage disposal system
permit then in progress where site testing has not been completed or a design
has been submitted but a permit has not been issued, shall be turned over to
the Committee for completion by the Committee’s SEO. The new member will pay to
the Committee any monies received from the permittee and/or the commonwealth or
any entity relative to any such applications for on-lot sewage disposal
systems. The permittee shall be responsible for all fees and costs associated
with the completion of the application which the permittee has not already paid
or which have not been paid on the permittee’s behalf.
      (2)   In the event that a system is installed using a valid permit issued
by a prior SEO, and in the event that the prior SEO has been compensated for
the installation inspection portion of the application permitting process, the
issuing SEO shall be responsible for the installation inspection, provided he
or she is a currently certified SEO.
      (3)   In the event that a system is installed using a valid permit issued
by a prior SEO, and the issuing SEO is no longer a certified SEO by reason of
retirement from the activities of SEO, then the matter shall be turned over to
the Committee’s SEO. The member shall pay to the Committee any monies received
from the permittee and/or the commonwealth or any entity relative to such
permit. The permittee shall be responsible for all fees and costs associated
with the permit and/or completion of the system which the permittee has not
already paid or which have not been paid on the permittee’s behalf.
      (4)   In the event that a permit was issued by a prior SEO and the
issuing SEO is no longer a certified SEO, by reason of a certification
revocation action by the Department of Environmental Protection or the
voluntary surrender of his or her certification to avoid prosecution, then the
Committee shall, in its sole discretion, evaluate the outstanding permits and
may require testing and/or system redesign by the Committee’s employees, the
costs of which shall be borne by the member on behalf of the permittee.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) shall prohibit the member from
recovering any paid but unearned compensation or wages from the prior SEO.
      (6)   Nothing in this division (C) shall prohibit the member from
recovering the costs of retesting or redesign when the actions of the former
SEO were contrary to the Act or regulations.
   (D)   In the event that it becomes necessary to change this subchapter in
whole or in part, no changes shall become effective and no new or altered
obligation or duty shall be placed upon the Committee, and no change in the
terms of this subchapter shall become effective until such time as every
participating municipality shall have adopted an identical amendatory ordinance
or duly adopted resolution.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-15-1998)
CHAPTER 34:  TOWNSHIP POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Pension Plan
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Eligibility
   
34.03   Contributions
   
34.04   Allocation of contributions
   
34.05   Investments
   
34.06   Valuation of assets
   
34.07   Benefits
   
34.08   Payment of benefits
   
34.09   Termination of employment
   
34.10   Administration
   
34.11   Pension Fund
   
34.12   Amendment and termination
   
34.13   Funding standard and requirements
   
34.14   Miscellaneous
Agreements
   
34.25   Police service agreement
POLICE PENSION PLAN
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT or ACCRUED BENEFIT.  The fair market value of a participant’s
individual account as determined on each valuation date. Adjustments to the
account, which will be recognized for any purpose hereunder between each
valuation date shall only include distributions from the account and employee
contributions under §
34.03(B). All other adjustments shall only be recognized as of the valuation
date.
   ACT.  The Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act, enacted
as Act 205 of 1984, as amended, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE.  Any leave of absence granted by the employer
for reasons including, but not limited to, accident, sickness, pregnancy or
temporary disability (not workers compensation), education, training, jury duty
or such other reasons as may necessitate authorized leave from active
employment. AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE shall include any period of absence
from employment for the purpose of serving in the Armed Forces of the United
States of America, provided the employee returns to employment at the time and
under the circumstances which provide reemployment rights pursuant to federal
and state law.
   BENEFICIARY.  Any person(s) designated by a participant to receive any
benefits, which may be due under this plan upon death of the participant. If
there should be no such designation, or if the beneficiary does not survive the
participant, BENEFICIARY shall mean the spouse, children, parents, brothers and
sisters or estate of the participant, in the order listed.
   BOARD.  The Board of Supervisors of Summerhill Township.
   BREAK IN SERVICE.  A computation period of 12 months during which an
individual fails to complete at least 1,000 hours of service as an employee in
employment.
   CERTIFICATION FORM.  The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of the
Auditor General, Certification Form AG-385, filed on an annual basis.
   CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.  The person designated by the employer who has
the primary responsibility for the execution of the administrative affairs for
the plan. This person shall be the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors.
   COMMONWEALTH.  The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT.  An employee’s period or periods, if reemployed after
incurring a break in service, of uninterrupted employment with the employer.
For purposes of this section, employment shall not be deemed interrupted by any
periods of authorized leave of absence. In the event an employee does not
return to employment at the conclusion of an authorized leave of absence, the
employee shall be deemed to have terminated employment as of the last day on
which the employee rendered active services for the employer.
   CONTRACT or POLICY.  A retirement annuity or retirement income endowment
policy (or a combination of both), or any other form of insurance contract or
policy which shall be deemed appropriate in accordance with the provisions of
the Act.
   EFFECTIVE DATE.  January 1, 2006, the date upon which the provisions of this
plan are effective.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any police officer (uniformed employee) that is regularly
employed on a full-time basis.
   EMPLOYER.  Summerhill Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   EMPLOYMENT.  Any period of time during which an employee renders services
for the employer for which the employee is entitled to receive compensation.
EMPLOYMENT shall not include any period of time during which an individual
performs services as an independent contractor paid on a contractual or fee
basis. EMPLOYMENT shall include periods of time during which an employee is
receiving workers compensation benefits due to a work related injury/illness.
   ENTRY DATE.  The first day the employee is employed on a full-time basis.
   HOUR OF SERVICE.  Each hour for which an employee is entitled to
compensation for full-time employment.
   INSURER or INSURANCE COMPANY.  Any legal reserve life insurance company
licensed to do business in one or more states of the United States.
   NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE.  The date that an employee attains age 55 or the date
when an employee terminates employment.
   PARTICIPANT.  Any employee who has commenced participation in this plan in
accordance with §
34.02 of this chapter and has not for any reason ceased to participate
hereunder.
   PENSION FUND.  The fund administered under the terms of this plan which
shall include all assets including but not limited to money, property,
investments, contracts and policies standing in the name of the plan.
   PLAN.  The Summerhill Township Police Pension Plan set forth in this
chapter.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR.  The employer or any individual or committee to whom the
employer delegates such function.
   PLAN YEAR.  The 12-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on
December 31.
   RETIREMENT DATE.  The first day of the month coincident with or next
following the date when an employee terminates employment and is eligible for
payment of a benefit hereunder pursuant to §
34.07 of this chapter.
   TOTAL AND PERMANENT DISABILITY.  A condition of physical or mental
impairment due to which a participant is unable to perform any gainful
occupation for which the participant is reasonably fitted through training,
education, and experience, which shall be expected to be permanent and
continuous for the remainder of the life of the participant, and due to which
the participant shall be eligible for Social Security disability benefits.
   VALUATION DATE.  The last day of the plan year.
   YEAR OF SERVICE.  Each completed 12-month period of continuous employment
with the employer during which an employee completes at least 1,000 hours of
service (approximately six months) during the plan year.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.02  ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Eligibility for participation.  Each employee shall be eligible to
participate in the plan as of the employee’s entry date. Each employee shall be
credited with years of service prior to the effective date for vesting purposes
only.
   (B)   Change in status.  In the event a participant who remains in the
service of the employer ceases to be an employee eligible for participation
hereunder, no further contributions shall be credited with respect to such
participant until the participant again qualifies under such participation
requirements.
   (C)   Leave of absence.  During any authorized leave of absence, a
participant shall continue to receive credit for years of service for vesting
but no additional employer contributions shall be credited to such participant
unless expressly authorized by the employer as part of the terms and conditions
of such authorized leave of absence. An employee who fails to return to
employment at the conclusion of an authorized leave of absence shall be deemed
to have terminated employment as of the last day on which services were
actually rendered as an employee.
   (D)   Recordkeeping.  The employer shall furnish the administrator with such
information as will aid the administrator in the administration of the plan and
Pension Fund. Such information shall include all pertinent data on employees
for purposes of determining their eligibility to participate in this plan
initially and subsequently.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.03  CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Employer contributions. 
      (1)   The employer shall make an annual contribution to the account of
each participant who has completed a year of service during the plan year in an
amount equal to $2,500.
      (2)   Contributions may be made from the general tax revenues of the
employer, or any state aid received pursuant to the Act, or from gifts or
donations of any kind.
      (3)   The employer contribution rate may be changed on an annual basis by
adoption of a resolution by the Board.
   (B)   Employee contributions.  Participants are not required to contribute
to the plan.
   (C)   No reversion to the employer.  At no time shall it be possible for the
plan assets to be used for, or diverted to, any purpose other than for the
exclusive benefit of the participants and their beneficiaries, except that
contributions made by the employer may be returned to the employer if the
contribution was made due to a mistake of fact and the contribution is returned
within one year of the mistaken payment of the contribution, or the plan is
terminated, as provided in §
34.12 of this section.
   (D)   Forfeitures.  Any forfeitures arising from the operation of the plan
shall be considered a credit to be allocated to active participants (active on
the date the forfeiture occurs) on an equal basis. Forfeitures shall be
distributed to active participants within 12 months as of the date the
forfeiture occurred.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.04  ALLOCATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Separate accounting.  The plan administrator shall establish and
maintain a separate account for each participant. The participant shall be
informed of the fair market value of the account at least once a year.
   (B)   Allocation of contributions. 
      (1)   The total contributions of the employer with respect to any plan
year shall be allocated to the account of each participant. Allocations shall
be determined as of the valuation date and shall occur at such time as the
total contribution for the plan year has been made. Any contribution made in
respect of any plan year by the employer shall be deemed to have been made as
of the valuation date occurring at the end of the plan year with respect to
which such contribution was made.
      (2)   The employer may make contributions and allocations to
participants’ accounts on a quarterly basis.
      (3)   For ease of administration and to permit plan participant’s to self
direct investments under §
34.05(B) of this chapter, any contributions paid into the Pension Fund may be
allocated to the account of each participant when the contribution is deposited
even though such final allocation shall be deemed to occur as of each annual
valuation date only for purposes of establishing the right of any participant
or beneficiary to share in the contributed amount or any earnings thereon.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.05  INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment of contributions.  The plan administrator shall receive,
hold, invest and reinvest all contributions and assets of this plan. The
purchase of contract(s) shall be considered a form of investment. Investments
shall be made from contributions and monies deposited into the Pension Fund.
   (B)   Pension Fund investment. 
      (1)   The plan administrator is authorized and empowered to invest and
reinvest the principal and income of the Pension Fund and to keep the Pension
Fund invested without distinction between principal and income, in such
property, real or personal, as deemed advisable, including but not limited to
any common or preferred stocks, bonds, mutual funds, notes, mortgages, trust
certificates, savings accounts, individual single premium annuity contracts,
allocated or unallocated group annuity contracts, or investment only contracts,
and pooled accounts of a bank or trust company maintained exclusively for
pension plans. The Plan Administrator shall exercise the judgment and care
under the circumstances then prevailing, which an individual of prudence,
discretion, and intelligence familiar with such matters would exercise in a
like situation.
      (2)   The Plan Administrator may, on a non-discriminatory basis, permit
the plan participants to direct the investment of the balance of the
participant’s account, whether vested or non-vested, into investment options
made available by the plan administrator. The plan administrator shall be
responsible for determining what investment options shall be made available
hereunder and shall be liable for the prudent selection and monitoring of such
options. To the extent that a participant hereunder directs investments of the
balance of the participant’s account, the plan administrator shall be relieved
of all responsibility and liability for the direction made by the participant
other than to ensure that the direction of the participant is followed. The
plan administrator shall have the right to change the investment options
available hereunder at any time and from time to time upon notifying the plan
participants, or may terminate the privilege of plan participant’s to self
direct the investment of the balance of the participant’s account at any time.
   (C)   Rights of plan administrator.  The rights and interest of any
participant on whose life or in whose name a contract is issued shall not be
expanded by such an investment and any and all rights provided under the
contract or permitted by the insurer shall be reserved to the plan
administrator. Such rights shall include the right to surrender, reduce or
split the contract, the right to name and change the payee to receive
thereunder on the happening of any contingency specified in the contract, and
such other rights as may be reserved to the owner of the contract or policy.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.06  VALUATION OF ASSETS.
   (A)   Maintenance of individual accounts.  The individual account maintained
on behalf of each participant shall be credited or debited (as the case may be)
with the allocable share of such participant in the plan resulting from
employer contributions (or including forfeitures as a part thereof), employee
contributions and appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Pension
Fund, as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Valuation of Pension Fund.  The plan administrator shall determine, as
of each annual valuation date, the net value of the Pension Fund and the amount
of net income or net loss. In determining such value, the plan administrator
shall value such assets at their fair market value as of the close of business
on each valuation date and the appreciation or depreciation in the value of the
Pension Fund since the prior valuation date plus any net income (exclusive of
contributions and forfeitures) or net loss and expenses incurred shall be
debited or credited among the participant’s accounts.
   (C)   Crediting of investment results.  As of any annual valuation date, the
earnings and accretions of the Pension Fund attributable to investment of fund
assets, reduced by losses experienced (whether or not realized) and expenses
incurred since the preceding annual valuation date shall be credited or debited
to the accounts of the participants and beneficiaries who had unpaid balances
in their accounts as of such annual valuation date in proportion to the
balances in such accounts as of the prior valuation date, after reducing such
prior valuation date balances by the amounts withdrawn by or distributed to the
participant or beneficiary since such valuation date, if any. To the extent
that a participant self directs the investment of the balance of the
participant’s account, the crediting of investment results shall be the actual
investment performance of those investments.
   (D)   Crediting of contributions.  As of each annual valuation date, after
such crediting of the valuation results to each account, contributions shall be
allocated to each account pursuant to §
34.04(B) of this chapter.
   (E)   Valuation of contracts.  If the plan administrator is investing in an
unallocated group annuity or investment contract, such assets shall be valued
and accounts adjusted in the same manner as provided in divisions (B) and (C)
of this section.
   (F)   Communications to participants.  The total value of a participant’s
account shall be determined as of each valuation date and, as soon as practical
after the end of such plan year, the plan administrator shall convey to each
participant the total value of the account as determined pursuant to this
section, provided, however, that neither the maintenance of accounts nor the
allocations of contributions to accounts shall operate to vest in any
participant any right or interest in or to any assets of the Pension Fund
except as the plan specifically provides.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.07  BENEFITS.
   (A)   Retirement.  Each participant who shall retire after attaining normal
retirement age at a retirement date shall be vested in accordance with the
provisions of §
34.09 and shall have a nonforfeitable right to the vested value of the
participant’s account and contributions hereunder shall cease thereupon. The
plan administrator shall then distribute the vested value of the participant’s
account in accordance with §
34.08 of this chapter.
   (B)   Disability.  A participant who incurs total and permanent disability
prior to becoming vested in the account shall receive a distribution in an
amount equal to the employer contributions, and earnings thereon, allocated to
the account as of the date that the total and permanent disability commenced.
   (C)   Death.  If a participant dies while still an employee, the
beneficiary, or in the absence of a beneficiary, the participant’s estate,
shall receive a lump sum benefit equal to the fair value of the participant’s
account as of the date of the participant’s death. Upon the death of a
participant after retirement or termination, no death benefits shall be payable
except such benefit as is provided under the particular form of benefit payment
elected.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.08  PAYMENT OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   Payment of benefits. 
      (1)   Upon a participant’s entitlement to payment of retirement benefits
under §
34.07(A) of this chapter, such individual shall file with the plan
administrator a written election on such form or forms and subject to such
conditions as the plan administrator shall provide. The election shall specify
whether payment of benefits is to be made as of such entitlement or to be
deferred to the extent provided in division (C) of this section and which of
the methods provided below for payment of benefits would be preferred. The plan
administrator in its sole discretion, and in accordance with the provisions of
this section, but considering a participant’s election, if any, shall then
determine when payment of a participant’s benefit is to commence and the method
by which the benefits will be paid. The plan administrator shall follow a
participant’s beneficiary designation in the case of a distribution on account
of the participant’s death. Payments to a beneficiary shall be made or commence
as soon as practicable after a participant’s death.
      (2)   Unless a participant elects earlier commencement of benefits,
payment of the benefits under this plan shall be made or commence within 60
days after the later of the end of the plan year in which the normal retirement
date occurs or the end of the plan year in which employment terminates.
      (3)   The plan administrator shall distribute the amounts due from a
participant’s account in any one of the following methods:
         (a)   A lump sum based on the fair market value of the participant’s
account; or
         (b)   In equal installments paid not less frequently than annually
over a period which does not exceed the earlier of 15 years or the joint life
expectancy of the participant and the spouse of the participant.
   (B)   Commencement of benefits. 
      (1)   A participant may elect to commence receiving distribution of
retirement benefits as of the retirement date or may defer such payments to a
date not later than the required date for commencement of benefits determined
under division (C) of this section. If a participant elects immediate
commencement of the retirement benefit, payments shall commence as of the
retirement date.
      (2)   Unless the participant otherwise elects, payment of benefits under
the plan shall commence not later than 60 days following the close of the plan
year in which occurs the latest of the following dates:
         (a)   The date when the participant attains normal retirement age; or
         (b)   The date when the participant terminates service with the
employer.
   (C)   Transfer of ownership.  Where a participant’s account is held solely
in individual insurance contracts or investment contracts, upon eligibility for
retirement benefits and in lieu of making a lump-sum or periodic payments, the
employer may transfer ownership of any contracts from the employer to the
participant.
   (D)   Required distributions.
      (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this plan, the entire
benefit of any participant who becomes entitled to benefits prior to death
shall be distributed either:
            1.   Not later than the required beginning date; or
            2.   Over a period beginning not later than the required beginning
date and extending over the life of such participant or over the lives of such
participant and a designated beneficiary (or over a period not extending beyond
the life expectancy of such participant, or the joint life expectancies of such
participant and a designated beneficiary).
         (b)   If a participant who is entitled to benefits under this plan
dies prior to the date when the entire interest has been distributed after
distribution of benefits has begun in accordance with subsection 2. above, the
remaining portion of such benefit shall be distributed at least as rapidly as
under the method of distribution being used under subsection 2. above as of the
date of death.
      (2)   If a participant who is entitled to benefits under this plan dies
before distribution of benefits has begun, the entire interest of such
participant shall be distributed within five years of the death of such
participant, unless the following sentence is applicable. If any portion of the
participant’s interest is payable to (or for the benefit of) a designated
beneficiary, such portion shall be distributed over the life of such designated
beneficiary (or over a period not extending beyond the life expectancy of s
such beneficiary), and such distributions begin not later than one year after
the date of the participant’s death or such later date as provided by
regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, then for purposes of the
five-year rule set forth in the preceding sentence, the benefit payable to the
beneficiary shall be treated as distributed on the date on which such
distributions begin. Provided, however, that notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, if the designated beneficiary is the surviving spouse of the
participant, then the date on which distributions are required to begin shall
not be earlier than the date upon which the participant would have attained age
70-1/2 and, further provided, if the surviving spouse dies before the
distributions to such spouse begin, this subparagraph shall be applied as if
the surviving spouse were the participant.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions and
procedures apply:
         (a)   REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE.  April 1 of the calendar year following
the later of the calendar year in which the participant attains age of 70-1/2,
or the calendar year in which the participant retires.
         (b)   DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.  Any individual designated by the
participant under this plan according to its rules.
         (c)   Any amount paid to a child shall be treated as if it had been
paid to the surviving spouse if such amount will become payable to the
surviving spouse upon such child's reaching majority (or other designated event
permitted under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury).
         (d)   For purposes of this section, the life expectancy of a
participant and/or the participant’s spouse (other than in the case of a life
annuity) may be redetermined but not more frequently than annually.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.09  TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Vesting upon termination of employment. 
      (1)   If a participant shall have employment terminated for any reason
other than death, total and permanent disability, or retirement, the
participant shall be immediately 100% vested in the value of the participant’s
account attributable to employer contributions.
      (2)   A participant shall always be 100% vested in the value of the
participant’s account attributable to employee contributions, if any.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a participant who
shall attain age 55 shall become 100% vested in the total value of the
participant’s account attributable to all sources including both employee and
employer contributions.
   (B)   Forfeitures.  The total value of a participant’s account which is not
vested as of the termination of the employment of the participant shall be
forfeited. Such forfeiture shall occur as of the date a participant’s
employment with the employer is terminated.
   (C)   Application of forfeitures.  Amounts forfeited by any participant will
be used to increase the benefits, which other participants would otherwise
receive under the plan. They shall be allocated under §
34.03(D) of this section.
   (D)   Distribution of benefits. 
      (1)   In the case of each participant who shall terminate employment for
any reason other than death or total and permanent disability prior to
attainment of normal retirement age, distribution of the vested benefit
determined pursuant to division (A) of this section shall occur after the
attainment of the earliest retirement age on a retirement date as if the
participant retired at such date. If the vested value of the participant’s
account is $5,000 or less, the plan administrator, in its sole discretion, may
distribute the value of the participant’s account at any time after termination
of employment occurs. If the vested value of the participant’s account is
greater than $5,000, the plan administrator, in it’s sole discretion, may
segregate the vested value of the account and such account shall only be
credited with the earnings gains and losses attributable to such segregated
account and shall not share ratably in the earnings gains or losses of the
Pension Fund.
      (2)   A participant who shall terminate employment as described in this
section and whose vested value of the account is greater than $5,000 may elect
to receive a distribution of the vested value of the account as of any date
which is acceptable to the plan administrator.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.10  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Plan administrator.  The administration of the plan and the operation
of the Pension Fund shall be directed and supervised by the Board. The Board
may appoint a committee or an individual to administer the provisions of the
plan. The plan administrator may delegate authority to act on its behalf to any
persons it deems appropriate. If the Board does not appoint a plan
administrator, the Board shall be the plan administrator.
   (B)   Authority and duties of the plan administrator.
      (1)   The plan administrator shall have full power and authority to do
whatever shall, in its judgment, be reasonably necessary for the proper
administration and operation of the plan. The interpretation or construction
placed upon any term or provision of the plan by the plan administrator or any
action of the plan administrator taken in good faith shall, upon the Board’s
review and approval thereof, be final and conclusive upon all parties hereto,
whatever employees, participants or other persons concerned. By way of
specification and not limitation and except as specifically limited hereafter,
the plan administrator is authorized:
         (a)   To construe this plan;
         (b)   To determine all questions affecting the eligibility of any
employee to participate herein;
         (c)   To compute the amount and source of any benefit payable
hereunder to any participant or beneficiary;
         (d)   To authorize any and all disbursements;
         (e)   To prescribe any procedure to be followed by any participant
and/or other person in filing any application or election;
         (f)   To prepare and distribute, in such manner as may be required by
law or as the plan administrator deems appropriate, information explaining the
plan;
         (g)   To require from the employer or any participant such information
as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the plan; and
         (h)   To appoint and retain any individual to assist in the
administration of the plan, including such legal, clerical, accounting and
actuarial services as may be required or permitted by any applicable law or
laws.
      (2)   The plan administrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from
or modify the terms of the plan or change or add to any benefits provided by
the plan, or to waive or fail to apply any requirements of eligibility for
benefits under the plan. Further, the plan administrator shall have no power to
adopt, amend, or terminate the plan, to select or appoint any trustee or to
determine or require any contributions to the plan, said powers being
exclusively reserved to the Board.
   (C)   Plan administration costs.  All reasonable expenses incident to the
functioning of the plan administrator, including, but not limited to, fees of
accountants, counsel, actuaries and other specialists and other costs of
administering the plan, may be paid from the Pension Fund to the extent
permitted under applicable law and not otherwise paid by the employer.
Administration costs may be deducted from the pension fund investment earnings
or may be a charge against each participant’s account on an equal basis.
   (D)   Hold harmless.  No member of the Board nor the plan administrator nor
any other person involved in the administration of the plan shall be liable to
any person on account of any act or failure to act which is taken or omitted to
be taken in good faith in performing their respective duties under the terms of
this plan. To the extent permitted by law, the employer shall, and hereby does
agree to, indemnify and hold harmless each person and each successor and each
of any such individual’s heirs, executors and administrators, and the plan
administrator’s delegates and appoints (other than any person, bank, firm, or
corporation which is independent of the employer and which renders services to
the plan for a fee) from any and all liability and expenses, including counsel
fees, reasonably incurred in any action, suit or proceeding to which he is or
may be made a party by reason of being or having been a member, delegate or
appointee of the plan administrator, except in matters involving criminal
liability, intentional or willful misconduct. If the employer purchases
insurance to cover claims of a nature described above, then there shall be no
right of indemnification except to the extent of any deductible amount under
the insurance coverage or to the extent of the amount the claims exceed the
insured amount.
   (E)   Approval of benefits.  The plan administrator shall review and approve
or deny any application for retirement benefits within 30 days following
receipt thereof or within such longer time as may be necessary under the
circumstances. Any denial of an application for retirement benefits shall be in
writing and shall specify the reason for such denial.
   (F)   Appeal procedure.  Any person whose application for retirement
benefits is denied, who questions the amount of benefits paid, who believes a
benefit should have commenced which did not so commence or who has some other
claim arising under the plan (claimant), shall first seek a resolution of such
claim under the procedure hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Any claimant shall file a notice of the claim with the plan
administrator which shall fully describe the nature of the claim. The plan
administrator shall review the claim and make an initial determination
approving or denying the claim.
      (2)   If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the plan administrator
shall, within 90 days (or such other period as may be necessary) from the time
the application is received, mail notice of such denial to the claimant. Such
90-day period may be extended by the plan administrator if special
circumstances so require for up to 90 additional days by the plan
administrator’s delivering notice of such extension to the claimant within the
first 90-day period. Any notice hereunder shall be written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant and, if a notice of denial, shall
set forth the specific plan provisions on which the denial is based, an
explanation of additional material or information, if any necessary to perfect
such claim and a statement of why such material or information is necessary,
and an explanation of the review procedure.
      (3)   Upon receipt of notice denying the claim, the claimant shall have
the right to request a full and fair review by the Board of the initial
determination. Such request for review must be made by notice to the Board
within 60 days of receipt of such notice of denial. During such review, the
claimant or a duly authorized representative shall have the right to review any
pertinent documents and to submit any issues or comments in writing. The Board
shall, within 60 days after receipt of the notice requesting such review,
submit its decision in writing to the person or persons whose claim has been
denied. The decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties,
shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and
shall contain specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the
decision is based.
      (4)   Any notice of a claim questioning the amount of a benefit in pay
status shall be filed within 90 days following the date of the first payment
which would be adjusted if the claim is granted unless the plan administrator
allows a later filing for good cause shown.
      (5)   A claimant who does not submit a notice of a claim or a notice
requesting a review of a denial of a claim within the time limitations
specified above shall be deemed to have waived such claim or right to review.
      (6)   Nothing contained herein is intended to abridge any right of a
claimant to appeal any final decision hereunder to a court of competent
jurisdiction. No decision hereunder is a final from which such an appeal may be
taken until the entire appeal procedure of this division (F) has been
exhausted.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.11  PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Operation of Pension Fund. 
      (1)   The Board is hereby authorized to hold and supervise the investment
of the assets of the Pension Fund, subject to the provisions of the laws of the
Commonwealth and of this plan and any amendment thereto. The Pension Fund shall
be used to pay benefits as provided in the plan and, to the extent not paid
directly by the employer, to pay the expenses of administering the plan
pursuant to authorization by the employer.
      (2)   The employer intends the plan to be permanent and for the exclusive
benefit of its employees. It expects to make the contributions to the pension
fund required under the plan. The employer shall not be liable in any manner
for any insufficiency in the Pension Fund; benefits are payable only from the
Pension Fund and only to the extent that there are monies available therein.
      (3)   The Pension Fund will consist of all funds held by the employer
under the plan, including contributions made pursuant to the provisions hereof
and the investments, reinvestments and proceeds thereof. The Pension Fund shall
be held, managed and administered pursuant to the terms of the plan. Except as
otherwise expressly provided in the plan, the employer has exclusive authority
and discretion to manage and control the Pension Fund assets. The employer may,
however, appoint a trustee, custodian and/or investment manager, at its sole
discretion.
   (B)   Powers and duties of employer.  With respect to the Pension Fund, the
employer shall have the following powers, rights and duties, in addition to
those vested in it elsewhere in the plan or by law, unless such duties are
delegated.
      (1)   To retain in cash so much of the Pension Fund as it deems advisable
and to deposit any cash so retained in any bank or similar financial
institution (including any such institution which may be appointed to serve as
trustee hereunder), without liability for interest thereon;
      (2)   To invest and reinvest the principal and income of the fund and
keep said fund invested, without distinction between principal and income, in
securities which are at the time legal investments for fiduciaries under the
Pennsylvania Fiduciaries Investment Act, or as the same may be subsequently
modified or amended;
      (3)   To sell property held in the fund at either public or private sale
for cash or on credit at such times as it may deem appropriate; to exchange
such property; to grant options for the purchase or exchange thereof;
      (4)   To consent to and participate in any plan of reorganization,
consolidation, merger, extension or other similar plan affecting property held
in the fund; to consent to any contract, lease, mortgage, purchase, sale or
other action by any corporation pursuant to any such plan;
      (5)   To exercise all conversion and subscription rights pertaining to
property held in the Fund;
      (6)   To exercise all voting rights with respect to property held in the
fund and in connection therewith to grant proxies, discretionary or otherwise;
      (7)   To place money at any time in a deposit bank deemed to be
appropriate for the purposes of this plan no matter where situated, including
in those cases where a bank has been appointed to serve as trustee hereunder,
the savings department of its own commercial bank;
      (8)   In addition to the foregoing powers, the employer shall also have
all of the powers, rights, and privileges conferred upon trustees by the
Pennsylvania Fiduciaries Investment Act, or as the same may be subsequently
modified or amended, and the power to do all acts, take all proceedings and
execute all rights and privileges, although not specifically mentioned herein,
as the employer may deem necessary to administer the Pension Fund;
      (9)   To maintain and invest the assets of this plan on a collective and
commingled basis with the assets of other pension plans maintained by the
employer, provided that the assets of each respective plan shall be accounted
for and administered separately; and
      (10)   To invest the assets of the Pension Fund in any collective
commingled trust fund maintained by a bank or trust company, including any bank
or trust company which may act as trustee hereunder. In this connection, the
commingling of the assets of this plan with the assets of other eligible,
participating plans through such a medium is hereby specifically authorized.
Any assets of the plan which may be so added to such collective trusts shall be
subject to all of the provisions of the applicable declaration trust, as
amended from time to time, which declaration, if required by its terms or by
applicable law, is hereby adopted as part of the plan, to the extent of the
participation in such collective or commingled trust fund by the plan.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.12  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   Right to amend.  The employer shall have the right to amend the plan,
at any time, by adoption of the appropriate resolution, and with respect to any
provisions thereof all parties thereto or claiming any interest thereunder
shall be bound thereby, provided, however, that no amendment shall revise the
accrued benefit of a participant determined as of the later of the date such
amendment is adopted, or the date such amendment becomes effective, if such
revised vested accrued benefit is less than that computed under the plan
without regard to such amendment. No amendment to the plan, which provides for
a benefit modification shall be made unless the cost estimate described in §
34.13(C) of this chapter has been prepared and presented to the employer in
accordance with the Act.
   (B)   Right to terminate.  It is the present intention of the employer to
maintain the plan indefinitely. Nevertheless, the employer reserves the right,
at any time, to permanently discontinue further contributions to the plan or to
terminate the entire plan. To the extent required under law, the employer shall
discuss termination of the plan with applicable and affected collective
bargaining representatives.
   (C)   Distribution upon termination.
      (1)   In the event of the termination or partial termination of the plan,
all amounts of benefits accrued by the affected participant to the date of such
termination, to the extent funded on such date, shall immediately become fully
vested and nonforfeitable. In the event of termination of the plan, the
employer shall direct either that the accrued benefits of participants in the
plan continue to be held in the Pension Fund in accordance with the provisions
of the plan (other than those provisions related to forfeitures) without regard
to such termination until all funds have been distributed in accordance with
such provisions, or that distribution be made to each participant in an amount
equal to the accrued benefit as of such date in such form as shall be approved
by the employer.
      (2)   If there are insufficient assets in the Pension Fund to provide for
all vested accrued benefits as of the date of plan termination, priority shall
first be given to the distribution of any amounts attributable to participant
contributions before assets are applied to the distribution of vested benefits
attributable to other sources hereunder.
   (D)   Residual assets.  If all liabilities under the plan to participants
and others entitled to receive a benefit have been satisfied, and there remain
any residual assets in the Pension Fund, the residual assets shall be returned
to the employer insofar as such return does not contravene any provision of
law, and any remaining balance in excess of employer contributions, shall be
returned to the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.13  FUNDING STANDARD AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Allocation report. 
      (1)   The employer shall perform an allocation report at least biennially
unless the employer is applying or has applied for supplemental state aid
pursuant to the Act, whereupon allocation reports shall be made annually.
      (2)   Such biennial allocation report shall be made as of the beginning
of each plan year occurring in an odd-numbered calendar year. The employer may
perform such allocation report more frequently than biennially to the extent
the employer deems it prudent and necessary to perform such additional
allocation reports.
      (3)   Such allocation reports shall be prepared and certified pursuant to
the terms of the Act.
      (4)   The expenses attributable to the preparation of any allocation
report required by the Act or any other expense which is permissible under the
terms of the Act and which are directly associated with administering the plan
shall be an allowable administrative expense payable from the assets of the
Pension Fund. Such allowable expenses shall include but not be limited to the
following:
         (a)   Investment costs associated with obtaining authorized
investments and investment management fees;
         (b)   Accounting and/or consulting expenses;
         (c)   Premiums for insurance coverage on fund assets;
         (d)   Reasonable and necessary counsel fees incurred for advice or to
defend the Fund; and
         (e)   Legitimate travel and education expense for pension plan
officials; provided, however, that the municipal officials of the employer, in
their fiduciary role, shall monitor the services provided to the plan to ensure
that the expenses are necessary, reasonable and benefit the pension plan and,
further provided, that the plan administrator shall document all such expenses
item by item, and where necessary, hour by hour.
   (B)   Reporting requirements. 
      (1)   Such allocation report shall be prepared and filed under the
supervision of the Chief Administrative Officer.
      (2)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall determine the financial
requirements of the plan on the basis of the most recent allocation report and
shall determine the minimum obligation of the employer with respect to funding
the plan for any given plan year. The Chief Administrative Officer shall submit
the financial requirements of the plan and the minimum obligation of the
employer to the governing body of the employer annually and shall certify the
accuracy of such calculations and their conformance with the Act.
   (C)   Benefit modifications.  Prior to the adoption of any benefit plan
modification by the employer, the chief administrative officer of the plan
shall provide to the employer a cost estimate of the proposed benefit plan
modification. Such estimate shall be prepared by a qualified person as defined
in the Act, which estimate shall disclose to the employer the impact of the
proposed benefit plan modification on the future financial requirements of the
plan and the future minimum obligation of the employer with respect to the
plan.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
§ 34.14  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Incapacity of participant.  If any participant shall be physically or
mentally incapable of receiving or acknowledging receipt of any payment of
pension benefits hereunder, the employer, upon receipt of satisfactory evidence
that such participant is so incapacitated and that another person or
institution is maintaining the participant and that no guardian or committee
has been appointed for the participant, may provide for such payment of pension
benefits hereunder to such person or institution so maintaining the
participant, and any such payments so made shall be deemed for every purpose to
have been made to such participant.
   (B)   Liability of officers of the employer.  Subject to the provisions of
the Act, no past, present or future officer of the employer shall be personally
liable to any participant, beneficiary or other person under any provision of
the plan, or any policy issued pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Assets in Pension Fund not property of individual participants. 
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to give any participant or
his beneficiary any interest in any specific property of the Pension Fund or
any right except to receive such distributions as are expressly provided for in
this plan.
   (D)   Employment rights not affected by the plan.  Participation in this
plan shall not give any right to any employee to be retained in the employ of
the employer nor shall it interfere with the right of the employer to discharge
any employee and to deal with the employee without regard to the effect that
such treatment might have upon the employee as a participant in this plan.
   (E)   Pension Fund for sole benefit of participants.  The income and
principal of the Pension Fund are for the sole use and benefit of the
participants, and, to the extent permitted by law, shall be free, clear and
discharged of and from and are not to be in any way liable for debts, contracts
or agreements, now contracts or which may hereafter be contracts, and from all
claims and liabilities now or hereafter incurred by any participant or
beneficiary.
   (F)   Information to be furnished by the employer.  The employer shall
furnish to the plan administrator information in the employer’s possession as
the plan administrator shall require from time to time to perform duties under
the plan.
   (G)   Spendthrift.  To the extent permitted by law, no payments to any
person under any contract, nor the right to receive such payments, nor any
interest in this plan, shall be subject to assignment, alienation, transfer or
anticipation, either by voluntary or involuntary act of any participant or
beneficiary or by operation of law, nor shall such payment right or interest be
subject to the demand or claims of any such person’s debts, obligations, or
liabilities.
(Ord. 61, passed 3-3-2006)
AGREEMENTS
§ 34.25  POLICE SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   (A) The township shall render police services by duly authorized, qualified
and trained police officers to the Borough of Wilmore (“borough”).
   (B)   The Township Police Department shall provide all normal and
appropriate police services within the borough, on the same basis as the
services that are provided within the township, for the following purposes, but
not limited to: patrolling the roadways; the prevention of crime; responding to
calls or complaints; the investigation of motor vehicle accidents; the
enforcement of local ordinances (excluding building and zoning); and other
normal and routine functions of a Police Department, including those functions
and services agreed upon by the respective municipalities.
   (C)   The township hereby authorizes the Township Police Department to
extend its police service throughout the borough.
   (D)   This section and the agreement adopted herewith shall constitute a
binding agreement and shall be sufficient warrant and authority for the police
officers as appointed by the township to perform and execute their police
duties and activities throughout the borough. The Township Police Department
shall have those powers and abilities as are granted to police officers under
the laws of the commonwealth, or the rules of the Supreme Court, or the
ordinances of the borough for which a fine or penalty is imposed.
   (E)   The police officers coming under the terms of the agreement shall be
at all times under the immediate supervision, direction and control of the
Chief of Police of the Township Police Department. Questions, comments or
complaints concerning the provision of services in the borough pursuant to this
section and agreement shall be presented in writing to the Board of Supervisors
of the township. Any comments so received shall be answered in writing within
five days of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Township Supervisors.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall at all times exercise his or her
professional discretion in setting forth an order of priority in answering all
police calls and attending to all police matters hereinafter mentioned.
   (G)   The Chief of Police, or a police officer under his or her authority,
shall provide a full report to the Board of Supervisors of the township and the
Council of the borough, at their respective regular monthly meetings, of the
services rendered to the borough for the previous month. Said report shall
include an accounting including, but not limited to, the following: patrolling
the roadways; prevention of crime; responding to calls or complaints;
investigations of motor vehicle accidents; investigation of crimes and criminal
activities; enforcement of local ordinances; and any other function the Chief
of Police may believe to be appropriate for report.
   (H)   For services rendered pursuant to this section and agreement the
borough is providing the rental of the borough-owned building formerly occupied
by the Borough Volunteer Fire Department at the corner of Main and Church
Streets in the borough, which rental shall be considered as full and complete
compensation to the township for the basic services described herein.
   (I)   If additional services in excess of those provided on a regular basis
in the township are desired by the borough, such request shall be made in
writing and a price agreed to prior to the provision of such services. Any such
change must be approved by resolution of both the borough and township and
approved at a public meeting of each.
   (J)   The term of this agreement shall be co-extensive with the lease
referred to in division (H) above, such basic services described herein shall
be free of charge to the borough so long as the lease, the terms of which are
incorporated herein by reference, remains in full force and effect.
   (K)   The township shall be entitled to retain all local shares of fine
monies associated with charges brought by the township police pursuant to this
agreement. In the event that any such monies are sent to the borough, the
borough agrees to promptly remit the same to the township.
   (L)   The borough agrees to assist and cooperate, at no cost to the borough,
in any grant application for funds or equipment which in the opinion of the
township may be used or useful in providing services under this agreement. Any
equipment or property acquired pursuant thereto shall be and remain the sole
property of the township.
   (M)   This agreement shall be binding and shall inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
(Ord. 76, passed 12-23-2014)
CHAPTER 35:  TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Township Fire Department
   
35.02   Fire and rescue services
   
35.03   Fire Hydrants Maintenance Fund
§ 35.01  TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   In addition to actually fighting fires or while going to or returning from
any fire, the members of the Township Fire Department are authorized to do the
following things:
   (A)   Answer any type of fire alarm or call, whether general alarm, private
call or investigation of fire report or emergency call of any type, inside or
without the township;
   (B)   Engage in any type of drill, training, ceremony, practice, test or
parade when duly called or authorized by a proper officer or officers of the
Township Fire Department; and
   (C)   Engage in the performance of any duty authorized by any officer or
officers of the Township Fire Department.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-14-1958)
§ 35.02  FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICES.
   (A)   The township, in the interest of public safety, hereby designates the
Township Volunteer Fire Company as the primary provider of fire and rescue
services for the township.
   (B)   It is the intent of the municipality to ensure the safety of township
residents by providing responsible entities to assure accountability and
effective fire and rescue services to the residents.
   (C)   The township hereby authorizes the Township Volunteer Fire Company to
collect from third parties, e.g., insurance carriers, for use of their services
as a result of their calls, including, but not limited to, medical emergencies,
vehicle accidents, vehicle fires, structure fires and hazardous materials, sums
sufficient to reimburse the Department in full for expenses, time and materials
in responding to any such call.
   (D)   Emergency service recipients questioning the reasonableness or right
to collect any charge, which the Township Fire Department assessed, may appeal
to the Township Supervisors under provisions of the Pennsylvania Local Public
Agency Law, being 2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 551 and 751 within 30 days of receipt of the
assessment. Failure to so appeal within 30 days shall constitute a waiver of
the recipient’s right to contest the charge. Charges incurred hereunder may be
collected directly by the emergency service provider at the District
Magistrate’s office by prosecuting an action in the name of the township.
   (E)   (1)   The township hereby designates a review committee from hereforth
to be called the Summerhill Township Emergency Services Committee.
      (2)   This committee will consist of the following:
         (a)   Emergency Management Coordinator;
         (b)   Fire Chief;
         (c)   Police Chief; and
         (d)   One Supervisor from the Township of Summerhill; Managers of
Beaverdale Area Ambulance Association: Forest Hills Area Ambulance Service; and
Portage Area Ambulance Association.
      (3)   The duties of this Committee are, but not limited to, the
following: review and adjust accordingly all fire and EMS run cards within the
township boundaries; policies and procedures regarding emergency responses
within the township boundaries; meet at least bi-annually; and submit all
township alarm cards and results of any meetings to the Township Supervisors.
(Ord. 63, passed 9-21-2004)
§ 35.03  FIRE HYDRANTS MAINTENANCE FUND.
   The township hereby allots one-half mill of the Capital Fund for
Firefighters Relief Fund and one- half mill of the Capital Fund for the Fire
Hydrants Maintenance Fund.
(Res. 188, passed 2-6-2007)
CHAPTER 36:  TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Tax rates
   
36.002   Tax Collector
Earned Income Tax
   
36.015   Authorization
   
36.016   Incorporation by reference
   
36.017   Imposition of tax
   
36.018   Administration; powers and duties of officer
Local Service Tax
   
36.030   Title
   
36.031   Definitions
   
36.032   Levy
   
36.033   Duty of employers
Occupation Tax
   
36.045   Occupation tax
Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
36.060   Imposition
   
36.061   Definitions
   
36.062   Exemptions
   
36.063   Payment of tax
   
36.064   Lien
Per Capita Tax
   
36.075   Imposition
   
36.076   Collection
   
36.077   Tax Collector; bond
   
36.078   Collection
   
36.079   Expense
   
36.080   Notice
   
36.081   Report
   
36.082   Tax Collector; duties
Tax on Certain Machines or Devices for Amusement
   
36.095   Definitions
   
36.096   Imposition
   
36.097   Payment
   
36.098   Certificates
   
36.099   Recoverability
 
   
36.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001  TAX RATES.
   The millage is 12 mills (.0012) on each dollar of assessed valuation for all
property within the township subject to taxation.
 
Tax                                                       Tax Rate
Earned income tax rate is the same on all wage earners    1%
within the township
                                                          $52 per year for all
                                                          wage earners working
Local service tax rate                                    within the township
                                                          grossing $12,000 per
                                                          year or greater
   Commission rate for the collection of the local tax 5%
service
Occupational tax rate is the same on all wage earners     Subject to taxation
within the township                                       at $5 per year
Per capita tax rate is the same on all wage earners       Subject to taxation
within the township                                       at $5 per year
Realty transfer tax rate is the same on all property      0.5%
transferred within the township
 
(Res. 102, passed - -1991; Res. 104, passed 12-6-1991; Res. 107, passed 12-1-
1992; Res. 112, passed 12-1-1993; Res. 115, passed 12-6-1994; Res. 120, passed
12-19-1995; Res. 130, passed 12-19-1996; Res. 139, passed 12-16-1997; Res. 147,
passed 12-15-1998; Res. 155, passed 1-4-2000; Res. 167, passed 1-6-2003; Ord.
2004-07-20, passed 7-20-2004; Ord. 66, passed 10-2-2007; Res. 197, passed 12-
18-2007; Res. 198, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 71, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 36.002  TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The elected Tax Collector of the township is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to act as the collector of delinquent taxes within the
township, for real estate taxes collected after the end of the tax year, but
before the taxes remaining unpaid are submitted to the County Tax Claim Bureau
for collection.
   (B)   This appointment and authorization shall remain in effect until the
Board of Supervisors, by ordinance, takes further action, as required by law.
   (C)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Tax Collector during the
term of this appointment, the successor Tax Collector shall automatically
succeed to the powers and duties set forth herein.
   (D)   The collector of delinquent taxes shall not be required to give
additional bond on account of this appointment.
   (E)   The collector of delinquent taxes shall have all the authority and
power now vested by law in the collector of non-delinquent township taxes for
the collection of such delinquent taxes.
   (F)   The collector of delinquent taxes shall account to the Board of
Supervisors for all delinquent tax collections made, in the same manner as
required for the reporting of non-delinquent tax collections.
   (G)   The collector of delinquent taxes shall be compensated in the same
manner as provided for the collection of non-delinquent taxes within the
township.
   (H)   (1)   However, this section is not intended to replace the County Tax
Claims Bureau as the primary collector of delinquent real estate taxes.
      (2)   Instead, the intent of this section is to authorize the elected Tax
Collector to collect delinquent real estate taxes on an interim basis from
December 31 until the unpaid real estate taxes are turned over to the County
Bureau.
(Ord. 54, passed 3-19-2002)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 36.015  AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Local
Tax Enabling Act, P.L. No. 1257, known as Act No. 511 of 1965, effective
January 1, 1966, as thereafter amended through in Act 166 of 2002 and Act No.
32 of 2008, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq. (known as and herein referred to as the
“LTEA”). The provisions contained herein are made for the purpose of amending
and supplementing the ordinance adopted on an unknown date prior to 1989.
(Ord. 71, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 36.016  INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The governing body of the township hereby adopts by reference the LTEA and
the amended provisions of Act 32 (53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 through 6924.901) and its
definitions, duties, directives, rules, regulations, powers and penalties as if
same had been set forth fully herein.
(Ord. 71, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 36.017  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   A tax at the rate of 1% on each dollar is hereby imposed on all earned
income and net profits, as defined by Act 32, earned by residents of the
township and on all earned income and net profits earned by nonresidents of the
township employed in or receiving work assignments within the township.
   (B)   All changes shall remain in effect on a calendar year basis without
annual re-enactment unless the rate of tax is subsequently changed.
(Ord. 71, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 36.018  ADMINISTRATION; POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICER.
   (A)   The collection and administration of the tax provided for in this
subchapter shall be performed by the Tax Officer appointed by the Cambria
County Tax Collection Committee (“CCTCC”).
   (B)   Said Tax Officer shall receive such compensation for his or her
services and expenses as determined from time to time by the CCTCC. Such Tax
Officer shall administer and have the powers and duties as provided for by Act
32 and the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 71, passed 1-3-2012)
LOCAL SERVICE TAX
§ 36.030  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and any supplements and amendments thereto, shall be known
and may be cited as “Local Service Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 66, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 36.031  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FISCAL YEAR. The 12-month period beginning January 1 and ending December 31
in any tax year.
   TAX. The local service tax in the amount of $52 levied by this subchapter.
   TAX RECEIVER. The person designated by the township for the collection of
the local service tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 66, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 36.032  LEVY.
   (A)   The township levies a tax upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation during the fiscal year for purposes of:
      (1)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (2)   Police, fire and/or emergency services; and/or
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes.
   (B)   Each individual who exercises such privilege shall pay the tax in the
amount of $52 in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature
heretofore levied by the township; provided, however, that there is hereby
exempted from this tax any person whose total income from all sources is less
than $12,000 per annum.
(Ord. 66, passed 10-2-2007)
§ 36.033  DUTY OF EMPLOYERS.
   Each employer within the township, as well as each employer outside the
township, but engaging in business within the township, is hereby charged with
the duty of collecting the said tax of $52 per year, in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter, from each employee who engaged in an occupation, as
herein defined, for the benefit of said employer or in the service of said
employer within the township during the fiscal year. Such employer shall make a
return and payment of said tax to the Tax Receiver, and each such employer is
hereby authorized to deduct said tax from each such employee, whether or not
such employee is paid by salary, wages, commission, and whether or not part or
all of such services are performed within the township.
(Ord. 66, passed 10-2-2007)
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.045  OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority contained in the Act of December 31, 1965,
P.L. 1257, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, being 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq., and its amendments and supplements, an annual tax of $10 is hereby levied
on the occupations of all persons physically residing within the township at
any time during the year beginning January 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005
and being the age of 21 years or older.
   (B)   This occupation tax shall be in addition to all other real estate, per
capita, personal and other taxes levied by the said township.
   (C)   Every husband against whose wife and said occupation tax is levied
shall be liable for the payment of said tax. Collection thereof from said
husband may be made and enforced in the manner provided by law for the
collection and enforcement of other taxes owing by such husbands, including the
collection thereof from the husband’s employer.
   (D)   The tax imposed by division (A) above shall be collected and turned
over to the township by the Tax Collector of said township, under and subject
to all the rules, regulations, rates of commission and laws applicable to the
special per capita tax for governmental purposes collected by said Tax
Collector, except as expressly modified herein.
   (E)   The tax imposed by division (A) above shall be due and payable to the
township for the year 2005 to 2006 on May 1, 2004 and a 2% discount shall be
allowed for payment prior to May 1, 2005. A penalty of 10% shall be added if
the tax is not paid before July 1, 2005. For ensuing years the tax shall be
due, discounts shall be allowed and penalties imposed on the same schedule then
prevailing for the Forest Hills School District.
   (F)   The tax imposed by division (A) above shall be collected from every
natural person subject to said tax, notwithstanding the fact that the name of
any such person shall not appear on the list of persons subject to taxation
within said township furnished to aforesaid Tax Collector and notwithstanding
that the fact that no notice by mail or otherwise shall have been given to such
person of the fact that he or she is liable for payment of said tax. The names
of any such persons shall be added to the duplicate of the Tax Collector in the
manner now provided by law for the per capita tax of the said township.
   (G)   The Board of Supervisors of the township shall have the right to make
rules and regulations respecting the collection of the tax imposed hereunder
and shall promulgate rules and regulations governing the collection and
enforcement of the occupation tax imposed hereunder, including provisions to
change the responsible party for collection.
   (H)   The tax imposed hereunder shall be administered in accordance with the
provisions of the Local Tax Enabling Act and all other pertinent laws of the
commonwealth. Any constitutional or statutory provisions authorizing exemptions
or rebates of the taxes imposed hereunder are deemed to be a part of this
section.
   (I)   (1)   If the said tax is not paid when due in each fiscal year,
interest thereon shall begin to accrue at the rate of 6% per annum on the
amount of said tax remaining unpaid.
      (2)   Said interest to be calculated beginning on the January 1 following
the date of the tax levy and to be calculated thereafter until said tax is paid
in full, together with penalty as hereinabove provided.
   (J)   The Solicitor may sue for the recovery of any tax due or unpaid under
this section upon notice provided by the Tax Collector after December 31 of any
year.
   (K)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to empower the
township to levy and collect the occupation tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the township under the Constitution
of the United States and the laws and Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (L)   If the occupation tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this
section shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation
of the Constitution of the United States or of the commonwealth, as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said occupation tax, or the validity of the tax so imposed
upon other persons or individuals as herein provided.
   (M)   So long as an identical tax is imposed by the Forest Hills School
District, the amount of the tax payable to the township shall be $5.
   (N)   This section shall become effective in accordance with the Act of
December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, and its
amendments and supplements, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year
to year unless repealed.
(Ord. 2004-07-20, passed 7-20-2004)  Penalty, see §
36.999
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
§ 36.060  IMPOSITION.
   A tax to provide revenue for general operating purposes be and the same is
hereby levied, assessed and imposed upon every transferor who makes, executes,
delivers or presents for recording any document, or in whose behalf any
document is made, executed, delivered or presented for recording, a tax at the
rate of 1% of the value of the property represented by such document, which tax
shall be payable at the time of making, executing, delivering or presenting for
recording of such document.
(Res. effective 7-1-1983; Res. passed 3-14-1987)
§ 36.061  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine
and neuter.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing whereby any land, tenements or
hereditaments within the township or any interest therein shall be granted,
bargained, sold or otherwise conveyed to the granter, purchaser or any other
person.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, association or
unincorporated enterprise. As applied to any association or partnership, the
term PERSON shall indicate the partners or members thereof, and as applied to
corporation, the persons thereof.
   VALUE. In the case of any document granting, bargaining, selling or
otherwise conveying any land, tenement or hereditament or interest therein, the
amount of the actual consideration therefor, including liens or other
encumbrances thereon and ground rents, or a commensurate part of the liens or
other encumbrances thereon and ground rents, where such liens or other
encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charges against other lands,
tenements or hereditaments; provided, that where such documents shall set forth
a small or nominal consideration, the VALUE thereof shall be determined from
the price set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale, or in
the case of a gift or any other document without consideration, from the actual
monetary worth of the property granted, bargained, sold or otherwise conveyed,
which in either event shall not be less than the market value as determined
from the assessment records of such lands for local tax purposes.
(Res. effective 7-1-1983)
§ 36.062  EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter is not intended to impose a tax on wills; mortgages;
transfers between husband and wife; transfers between persons who were
previously husband and wife but who have since been divorced, provided such
transfer is made within three months of the date of the granting of the final
decree in divorce; transfers between parent and child or the spouse of such a
child or between parent and trustee for the benefit of a child or the spouse of
such child; by and between a principal and straw party; correctional deeds
without consideration; transfers to the United States, the commonwealth or to
any of their instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions; a
conveyance to a trustee, or a transfer by the owner of previously occupied
residential premises to a builder of a new residential premises is taken in
trade by such builder as part of the consideration from the purchaser of a new,
previously unoccupied residential premises; or any transfer from a purchase
money mortgagor to the vendor holding that purchase money mortgage.
(Res. effective 7-1-1983)
§ 36.063  PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The Recorder of Deeds of the county is appointed as the collector of
said tax and his or her commission for such work has been fixed at 5%, and he
or she is authorized to send the money so collected and received to the Board
of Supervisors of the township and he or she shall have prepared a stamp which
shall read as follows:
 
Board of Supervisors, Township of Summerhill,
Cambria County, Pennsylvania, Realty
Transfer Tax, Effective July 1, 1983
Date ............. Amt. Paid .............
 
   (B)   The township shall pay the premium on any bond or bonds required by
law to be procured by the Recorder of Deeds or his or her agent for the purpose
of performing his or her duties under this subchapter.
(Res. effective 7-1-1983)  Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.064  LIEN.
   All taxes imposed by this section which are not paid when due shall bear
interest thereon at the rate of 1% per month until paid. This tax when due and
unpaid shall become a lien on the land, tenements, hereditaments or any
interest therein which are described in a deed, transfer or conveyance upon
which this tax is due, and shall be collected as other taxes are collected.
(Res. effective 7-1-1983)  Penalty, see §
36.999
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 36.075  IMPOSITION.
   A per capita tax of $5 is hereby levied and assessed under the authority of
53 P.S. §§ 6904.101 et seq., upon each person over 18 years of age residing
within the limits of the township, which tax shall be in addition to all other
taxes levied and assessed by the said township pursuant to any other laws of
the commonwealth.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.076  COLLECTION.
   Such tax shall be collected by the duly elected or appointed Tax Collectors
of the township in the same manner and at the same time as other township taxes
are collected, as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72
P.S. §§ 5511.1, as amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)  Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.077  TAX COLLECTOR; BOND.
   The Tax Collectors shall give bond secured and conditioned for the
collection and payment of such taxes as provided by law for other township
taxes.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.078  COLLECTION.
   The entry of the per capita tax in the tax duplicate and the issuance of
such duplicate to the Tax Collectors shall constitute his or her warrant for
the collection of the per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.079  EXPENSE.
   The expense of collection and compensation of the Tax Collectors shall be
paid and allowed as provided in the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72
P.S. §§ 5511.1, as amended and supplemented, which compensation shall be the
same as shall be fixed from time to time for the collection of the township
taxes.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.080  NOTICE.
   The Tax Collectors shall give notice to the taxpayers of the amount of per
capita tax due under this subchapter, at the same time and in the same manner
as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1,
as amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.081  REPORT.
   In case the Tax Collectors shall at any time find within the limits of the
said township any resident or inhabitant above the age of 18 years whose name
does not appear upon the tax duplicate, he or she shall report the name of such
person forthwith to the Assessor, who shall thereupon certify the same unto the
Board of Supervisors, who shall promptly certify the same to the Tax Collectors
reporting such name, whereupon the Tax Collectors shall add such name and the
assessment of this per capita tax against such person to the duplicate of the
township, and shall proceed to collect the same.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
§ 36.082  TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Tax Collectors shall give notice to the taxpayers, shall have the power
to collect said taxes by distress, shall have the power and authority to demand
and receive said tax from the employer of any person owing any per capita tax,
or whose spouse owes any per capita tax, shall remit such taxes to the Township
Treasurer by separate statement at the same time as other taxes are remitted to
the township, shall allow discounts and add penalties, shall generally be
subject to all the duties and shall have all the rights and authority conferred
upon him or her by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72 P.S. §§
5511.1, as amended and supplemented. It is hereby declared to be the intent of
the Board of Supervisors, in enacting this subchapter, to confer upon the Tax
Collectors, in the collection of this per capita tax, all the powers, together
with all the duties and obligations, to the same extent and as fully provided
for in the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1, as
amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-28-1974)
TAX ON CERTAIN MACHINES OR DEVICES FOR AMUSEMENT
§ 36.095  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine
and the neuter.
   DEVICE. Any mechanical amusement device for the use of which for profit, a
tax is levied under this subchapter.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any device, other than jukebox which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or key may be operated for use as a
game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score and
whether or not a prize is offered; provided such terms shall not include any
gambling device or any mechanism that has been judicially determined to be a
gambling device.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, co-partnership, firm or
corporation.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972)
§ 36.096  IMPOSITION.
   There is hereby imposed a tax, for general township purposes under the
authority of 53 P.S. §§ 6904.101 et seq., and its amendments, upon the
privilege of using for profit, within the township, any mechanical amusement
device, as herein defined. Such tax shall be payable by the person owning and/
or operating the establishment in which such device is installed for use. Such
tax shall be payable at the following rate: on each mechanical amusement
device, $30 for the calendar year or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972)
§ 36.097  PAYMENT.
   (A)   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall be payable to the Township
Secretary, on or before March 15 annually.
   (B)   No deduction or refund of any tax payable under this subchapter shall
be granted in the case of any tax payable for less than a full calendar year,
or in case of any device destroyed, stolen, sold or otherwise disposed of or
transferred after the payment of such tax; provided however, in the case of the
substitution of any device by another device in the same class, the use of
which is taxable under this subchapter, no additional tax shall be paid;
provided that the total number of devices of the same class in use upon the
premises remains no greater than that upon which such tax was paid.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972)  Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.098  CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The Township Secretary shall procure, at the expense of the township,
a sufficient number of certificates, upon each of which the following
information shall be printed or inserted in ink or by typewriter:
      (1)   The name of the township;
      (2)   The number of the certificate;
      (3)   The name and address of the person paying the tax;
      (4)   The year for which the tax shall have been paid;
      (5)   The date on which such tax shall have been paid;
      (6)   The type of device for which the tax shall have been paid and any
identifying letters or numbers that may appear on the particular machine; and
      (7)   The amount of tax paid.
   (B)   Whenever any tax shall have been paid under this subchapter, the
Township Secretary shall prepare in duplicate a certificate, as herein
prescribed. The original of such certificate, to which the township seal shall
be affixed, shall be given to the person paying such tax, and the duplicate
shall be kept on file by the Township Secretary.
   (C)   In case of the loss, defacement or destruction of any original
certificate, the person to whom such certificate was issued shall apply to the
Township Secretary who may issue a new certificate in replacement thereof, upon
payment of a fee of $10 and who shall amend the duplicate of the certificate
first issued in case that a new certificate has been issued.
   (D)   In case of the removal of any establishment in which any device for
the use of which a tax shall have been paid under this subchapter, to another
location in the township, or in case of a change in the identity of the person
operating or owning any such establishment, the person operating such
establishment, shall report such fact within five days of such change in
location or personnel, and the Secretary shall immediately amend the
certificate and duplicate certificate.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972)
§ 36.099  RECOVERABILITY.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with all penalties,
interest and costs shall be recoverable by the Township Solicitor as debts of
like amount are by law recoverable.
   (B)   All taxes, interest and penalties collected or recovered by the
Township Secretary or any other township officer or person for or in behalf of
the township, shall be paid into the township treasury as general revenue to be
used for general revenue purposes.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972)
§ 36.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever fails or refuses to pay the tax required by §
36.045, shall, upon conviction, before any District Magistrate, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than $50, and in default of payment of said fine to be
imprisoned in the County Prison for a period not exceeding 15 days.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of §§
36.060 through
36.064 or of any regulation or requirement pursuant thereto and authorized
thereby shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, upon summary
conviction before a Magistrate, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $100
and cost of prosecution of each such offense, or to undergo imprisonment for
not more than 30 days for the nonpayment of such fine and costs within ten days
from the imposition thereof. Such fine imposed by this division (C) shall be in
addition to any other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
36.060 through
36.064.
   (D)   (1)   If any tax levied in pursuance of §§
36.095 through
36.099 shall not be paid when due, a penalty of 10% of the amount of tax due
and unpaid shall be added thereto.
      (2)   Any person who shall be convicted before any District Magistrate or
any Justice of the Peace of the township for violation or failing to carry out
any of the provisions or requirements of §§
36.095 through
36.099 or of neglecting, failing or refusing to furnish complete and correct
returns or to pay over any tax levied by §§
36.095 through
36.099 at the time required, or of knowingly making any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return; or of doing or attempting to do anything whatever to avoid
the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed under §§
36.095 through
36.099 shall be liable to a fine or penalty not exceeding $100 for each and
every offense, and the costs of prosecution thereof, and, in default of payment
of any such fine and costs, to imprisonment in the County Jail for not more
than 30 days; provided that such fine or penalty shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
36.095 through
36.099.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-15-1972; Res. effective 7-1-1983; Ord. 66, passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 37:  TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Disposition of records
   
37.02   Hazard mitigation plan
   
37.03   Drug free workplace
   
37.04   Emergency management
   
37.05   National Incident Emergency System
   
37.06   Right-to-know policy
   
37.07   Equal employment policy
§ 37.01  DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township intends to follow the schedules and
procedures for disposition of records as set forth in the Municipal Records
Manual approved July 16, 1963.
(Res. 189, passed - -)
§ 37.02  HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   To be used as a document for the betterment of the township in an
attempt to prevent disastrous situations or to deal with the traumatic effects
to the municipality should a disaster occur, the County Hazard Mitigation Plan
is hereby adopted as the official hazard mitigation plan of the township.
   (B)   The respective officials and agencies identified in the implementation
strategy of the County Hazard Mitigation Plan are hereby directed to implement
the recommended activities assigned to them.
(Res. 178, passed 9-7-2004; Res. 200, passed 2-19-2008; Res. 01-2012, passed 1-
3-2012; Res. 228, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 37.03  DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The township is a drug free workplace and as such, the unlawful
manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled
substance is prohibited in the employee’s workplace.
   (B)   Compliance reviews are conducted by the township to ensure that these
requirements are met.
   (C)   The employee will abide by the terms of this statement and notify the
supervisors of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring
in the workplace no later than five days after such conviction.
   (D)   The grantor of such funds shall be notified within ten days after
receiving notice from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such
conviction.
   (E)   The township shall be responsible for taking one of the following
actions within 30 days of receiving notice, with respect to any convicted
township employee:
      (1)   The township shall take appropriate personnel action against such
an employee, up to and including termination; or
      (2)   May require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug
abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a
federal, state or local health, law enforcement or other appropriate agency.
(Res. 133, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 37.04  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The commonwealth’s Emergency Management Service Code (35 Pa.C.S.A. §
7101-7707), also known as P.L. 1332, directs and authorizes each political
subdivision of the commonwealth to establish a local emergency management
agency and develop a comprehensive emergency plan.
   (B)   Each emergency management agency shall have the responsibility for
emergency management activities involving mitigation, preparedness, response
and recovery in order to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the township.
   (C)   The township emergency operations plan has been developed to outline
basic operations and procedures to be implemented in the event of an incident
either human-made or natural that requires a coordinated response.
   (D)   The Supervisors of the township do hereby approve, adopt and place
into immediate effect the Emergency Operations Plan of the township. This Plan
shall be reviewed every two years to make certain that it conforms with the
requirements of the County Emergency Operations Guideline.
(Res. 169, passed 9-2-2003; Res. 220, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 37.05  NATIONAL INCIDENT EMERGENCY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The municipality hereby adopts the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) and recommends all public safety agencies, emergency responders,
hazardous materials users and transporters, hospitals and school districts
situated within the municipality do the same.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors of the township does hereby approve, adopt
and place into immediate effect the National Incident Management System (NIMS)
to be used by the municipality and its emergency response community for the
betterment of the township in an attempt to deal with the effects to the
municipality should a disaster occur.
(Res. 182, passed 3-1-2005; Res. 185, passed 12-5-2006)
§ 37.06  RIGHT-TO-KNOW POLICY.
   (A)   Open record contact person. The township shall designate a township
Open Records Secretary. The Open Records Secretary may be reached at the
Township Municipal Building Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
   (B)   General. All documents deemed public records shall be available for
inspection, retrieval and duplication at the Municipal Building.
   (C)   Requests. Requests shall be made in writing to the township Open
Records Secretary on a form provided by the township.
   (D)   Fees. Paper copies shall be $0.25 per page per side. The certification
of a record is $1 per record. Specialized documents including, but not limited
to, blue prints, color copies and non-standard sized documents shall be charged
the actual cost of production. If mailing is requested, the cost of postage
will be charged. The township shall require prepayment if the total fees are
estimated to exceed $100.
   (E)   Response.
      (1)   The township shall make a good faith effort to provide the
requested public record(s) as promptly as possible. The Open Records Secretary
shall cooperate with those requesting records to review and/or duplicate
original township documents while taking reasonable measure to protect township
documents from the possibility of theft, damage and/or modification.
      (2)   The Open Records Secretary shall review all written requests for
access to public records. As soon as possible, but no later than five business
days after receiving a written request to access public records, the Open
Records Secretary shall respond to such requests in writing consistent with Act
3 of 2008, the Right-to-Know Law, being 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
      (3)   If access to a record is denied, the response shall include a
reason for denial as stipulated in Act 3 of 2008, the Right-to-Know Law, being
65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
   (F)   Contact information for appeals.
      (1)   If a written request is denied or deemed denied, the requester may
file an appeal in writing to: Executive Director, Office of Open Records,
Commonwealth Keystone Building 400 North Street, Plaza Level Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania 17120-0225.
      (2)   Appeals of criminal records shall be made to the District Attorney
of Cambria County. 1105 Camelot Court, Johnstown, PA 15904.
   (G)   Appeals process. The appeal shall be filed within 15 business days of
the mailing date of the township’s response or within 15 business days of a
deemed denial. The appeal shall state the grounds upon which the requester
asserts the record is a public record and shall address any grounds stated by
the township for delaying or denying the request.
(Res. 210, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 37.07  EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The township must ensure that applicants and employees are not
discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religious creed, ancestry,
national origin, age, disability and sex.
   (B)   Compliance reviews are conducted by the township to ensure that these
requirements are met.
(Res. 132, passed 1-21-1997)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   HOLDING TANKS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Collection
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Prohibited activities
   
50.04   Standards for storage of solid waste
   
50.05   Standards and regulations for collection and transportation
   
50.06   Collection and disposal charges
   
50.07   Exceptions
   
50.08   Administrative appeals
   
50.09   Injunction powers
Garbage Collection Stamps
   
50.20   Garbage collection stamp
   
50.21   Fee for issuance of stamp
   
50.22   Display of stamp
 
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 50.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and referred to as the “Solid Waste
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
      ACT 97. The Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act of 1980 (P.L. 380,
No. 97, July 7, 1980), being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.
      ACT 101. The Pennsylvania Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act of 1988 (Act No. 101, July 28, 1988), being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101
et seq.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Poultry and livestock manure, or residual materials
in liquid or solid form, generated in the production, and marketing of poultry,
livestock, fur-bearing animals and their products, provided such waste is not a
hazardous waste. The term includes the residual materials generated in
producing, harvesting and marketing of all agronomic, horticultural,
silvicultural and agricultural crops or commodities grown on what are usually
recognized and accepted as farms, forests or other agricultural lands, and
shall include brush and stumps.
      BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste including, but not limited to,
appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches or stumps which may
require special handling due to their size, shape or weight.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in non-manufacturing
or non-processing business, including, but not limited to, stores, markets,
office buildings, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
      COMPOSTING. The storage of vegetable wastes on the property where they
were generated, for the purpose of creating aerobic digestion and creation
breakdown of vegetable wastes into soil.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. All municipal and residual waste
building materials, grubbing waste and rubble resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings
and other structures and pavements.
      DEPARTMENT. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      DISPOSAL. The incineration, deposition, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking or placing of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that
the solid waste or a constituent of the solid waste enters the environment, is
emitted into the air or is discharged to the waters of the commonwealth.
      DOMESTIC WASTE or HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Solid waste, comprised of garbage and
rubbish, which normally originates in the residential private household or
apartment house.
      GARBAGE. Any solid waste derived from animal, grain, fruit or vegetable
matter that is capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with sufficient
rapidity to cause such nuisances as odors, gases or vectors.
      HAULER or PRIVATE COLLECTOR. Any person, firm, co-partnership,
association or corporation who has been licensed by the county or its
designated representative to collect, transport and dispose of refuse for a fee
as herein prescribed.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any solid waste or combination of solid wastes, as
defined in Act 97 or 101 which because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
an increase in morbidity in either an individual or the total population; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
      INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishments engaged in manufacturing or
processing, including, but not limited, to factories, foundries, mills,
processing plants, refineries, mines and slaughterhouses.
      INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Any establishment engaged in service,
including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages, schools
and universities.
      LICENSE. A legally constituted requirement (Act 101 of 1988) imposed by
the County Commissioners for the purpose of collecting and hauling municipal
waste from any municipality within the county. This license shall also
designate the required disposal site or sites as included in the county’s
municipal waste management plan.
      MUNICIPAL WASTE. Garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities; and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under Acts 97 or 101 from
a municipal, commercial or institutional water supply treatment plant,
wastewater treatment plant or air pollution control facility.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Summerhill, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, municipal authority, federal government or
agency, state institution and agency, or any other legal entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In any provisions of
this subchapter prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty, or any combination
of the foregoing, the term PERSON shall include the officers and directors of
any corporation or other legal entity having officers and directors.
      PROCESSING. Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or
bulk of municipal or residual waste or any technology used to convert part or
all of such waste materials for off-site reuse. PROCESSING FACILITIES include,
but are not limited to, transfer facilities, composting facilities and resource
recovery facilities.
      REFUSE. All solid waste materials which are discarded as useless.
      RESIDUAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, other discarded material or other
waste including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, mining and agricultural operations and any sludge
from an industrial, mining or agricultural water supply treatment facility,
wastewater treatment facility or air pollution control facility, provided that
it is not hazardous. The term RESIDUAL WASTE shall not include coal refuse as
defined in the Coal Refuse Disposal Control Act, being 52 P.S. §§ 30.51 et seq.
RESIDUAL WASTE shall not include treatment sludges from coal mine drainage
treatment plants, disposal of which is being carried on pursuant to and in
compliance with a valid permit issued pursuant to the Clean Streams Law, being
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.
      RUBBISH. All non-putrescible municipal waste except garbage and other
decomposable matter. This category includes, but is not limited to, ashes,
bedding, cardboard, cans, crockery, glass, paper, wood and yard cleanings.
      SCAVENGING. The unauthorized and uncontrolled removal of material placed
for collection or from a solid waste processing or disposal facility.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT RESIDUES. Any coarse screenings, grit and de-watered or
air-dried sludges from sewage treatment plants and pumpings from septic tanks
or septage which are a municipal solid waste and require proper disposal under
Acts 97 and 101.
      SOLID WASTE. Any waste, including, but not limited to, municipal,
residual or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained
gaseous material.
      STORAGE. The containment of any waste on a temporary basis in such a
manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste. It shall be presumed that
the containment of any waste in excess of one year constitutes disposal. This
presumption can be overcome by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
      TRANSFER STATION. Any supplemental transportation facility used as an
adjunct to solid waste route collection vehicles.
      TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any solid waste at any time after
generation.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 50.03  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or permit to
accumulate upon any public or private property within the municipality, any
garbage, rubbish, bulky waste or any other municipal or residual solid waste,
except in accordance with the provision of this subchapter and any Department
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any solid waste within the
municipality, except in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and
any Department rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any solid waste in
the municipality except in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and any rules of the Township Supervisors, county or Department rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, transport, collect or
remove any solid waste from public or private property within the municipality
without first securing a license to do so in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any materials from any
solid waste that is stored or deposited for collection within the municipality
without prior approval by the municipality.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to salvage or reclaim any solid
wastes within the municipality except at an approved and permitted resource
recovery facility under Act 97 and Act 101, and any Department rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to these Acts.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit, or
cause or permit, to be thrown, placed or deposited any solid waste in or upon
any street, alley, sidewalk, body of water, public or private property within
the municipality except as provided in the subchapter.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to: place a used lead acid battery
in mixed municipal solid waste; discard or otherwise dispose of a lead acid
battery except by delivery to an automotive battery retailer or wholesaler to a
secondary lead smelter permitted by the Environmental Protection Agency; or to
a collection or recycling facility authorized under the laws of this
commonwealth.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any municipal waste landfill to accept for
disposal, and no resource recovery facility may accept for processing, other
than composting, truckloads composted primarily of leaf waste or plant waste.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The storage of all solid waste shall be practiced so as to prevent the
attraction, harborage or breeding of insects or rodents, and to eliminate
conditions harmful to public health or which create safety hazards, odors,
unsightliness or public nuisances.
   (B)   Any person producing municipal waste shall provide a sufficient number
of secure containers to store all waste materials generated during periods
between regularly scheduled collections and shall place and store all waste
materials therein.
   (C)   Any person storing municipal waste for collection shall comply with
the following preparation standards.
      (1)   All municipal waste shall be drained of free liquids before being
placed in storage containers.
      (2)   All garbage or other putrescible waste shall be securely wrapped in
paper, plastic or similar material or placed in properly tied plastic bags.
      (3)   All cans, bottles or other food containers should be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before being placed in storage containers.
      (4)   Garden clippings and tree trimmings shall be placed in approved
containers or shall be cut and tied securely into bundles. Bundles shall be not
more than four feet in length, not more than two feet in diameter and not more
than 40 pounds in weight. Such materials may also be composted by the
municipality and/or by the property owner.
      (5)   Newspapers and magazines shall be placed in approved containers or
shall be tied securely into bundles of not more than 40 pounds in weight.
      (6)   When specified by the municipality or its designated
representative, special preparation and storage procedures may be required to
facilitate the collection and resource recovery (recycling) of certain waste
materials.
   (D)   All municipal waste shall be stored in containers approved by the
municipality or its designated representative. Individual containers and bulk
containers utilized for storage of municipal waste shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Reusable containers shall be constructed of durable, watertight,
rust and corrosion resistant material, such as plastic, metal or fiberglass, in
such a manner as to be leak-proof, weather-proof, insect-proof and rodent-
proof.
      (2)   Reusable containers for individual residences shall have a tight-
fitting cover and suitable lifting handles to facilitate collection.
      (3)   Reusable containers for individual residences shall have a capacity
of not less than ten gallons nor more than 40 gallons, and a loaded weight of
not more than 40 pounds.
      (4)   (a)   Disposable plastic bags or sacks are acceptable containers
provided the bags are designated for waste disposal.
         (b)   Plastic bags shall have sufficient wall strength to maintain
physical integrity when lifted by the top, shall be securely tied at the top
for collection, and shall have a capacity of not more than 30 gallons and a
loaded weight of not more than 35 pounds.
      (5)   All containers, either reusable or disposable, shall also comply
with the minimum standards established by the National Sanitation Foundation.
   (E)   Any person storing municipal waste for collection shall comply with
the following storage standards.
      (1)   Containers shall be kept tightly sealed or covered at all times.
Solid waste shall not protrude or extend above the top of the container.
      (2)   (a)   Reusable containers shall be kept in a sanitary condition at
all times.
         (b)   The interior of the containers shall be thoroughly cleaned,
rinsed, drained and disinfected, as often as necessary, to prevent the
accumulation of liquid residues or solids on the bottom or sides of the
containers.
      (3)   Containers shall be used and maintained so as to prevent public
nuisances.
      (4)   Containers that do not conform to the standards of this subchapter
or which have sharp edges, ragged edges or any other defect that may hamper or
injure collection personnel shall be promptly replaced by the owner.
      (5)   Containers shall be placed by the owner or customer at a collection
point specified by the municipality or its designated representative.
      (6)   With the exception of pick-up days when the containers are placed
out for collection, the containers shall be properly stored on the owner’s or
customer’s premises at all times.
      (7)   Bulk waste items such as furniture, automobile parts, machinery,
appliances and tires shall be stored in a manner that will prevent the
accumulation or collection of water, the harborage of rodents, safety hazards
and fire hazards.
   (F)   (1)   The storage of all municipal waste from multi-family residential
units, commercial establishments, institutions and industrial lunchroom or
office waste sources is subject to the regulations and standards set forth in
this subchapter.
      (2)   The type, size and placement requirements for bulk containers shall
be determined by the waste generator and the waste hauler, and are subject to
approval by the municipality.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The municipality shall designate the contractor or contractors for the
collection of all garbage, rubbish and bulky wastes from individual residences
and multi-family residential sources.
   (B)   All households and homeowners shall utilize the residential collection
service designated by the municipality.
   (C)   All commercial, institutional and industrial establishments shall
dispose of all municipal waste through the municipal arrangements based on a
standard charge for anticipated volume and availability of service, approved by
the municipality frequency.
   (D)   All residential garbage and rubbish shall be collected at least once a
week. Bulky wastes shall be collected following prior arrangement with the
municipality’s collector and payment of any required special fees.
   (E)   All commercial, institutional, public and industrial lunchroom and
office waste containing garbage shall be collected at least once a week.
Rubbish collection from these sources shall be made as often as necessary to
control health hazards, odors, flies and unsightly conditions. The municipality
reserves the right to require more frequent collection when deemed necessary.
   (F)   Residential collection schedules shall be published regularly by the
municipality or its contracted hauler.
   (G)   All solid waste collection activity shall be conducted from Monday
through Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. unless prior
approval of any exception has been granted by the municipality. No collection,
hauling or transporting of solid waste shall be permitted on Sundays or
holidays.
   (H)   All licensed haulers under license with the municipality shall comply
with the following standards and regulations.
      (1)   All municipal waste collected within the municipality shall be
conveyed by the hauler to a transfer station, processing facility or disposal
site designated in the approved County Municipal Waste Management Plan.
      (2)   Any trucks or other vehicles used for the collection and
transportation of municipal waste must comply with the requirements of Acts 97
and 101, and any Department regulations adopted pursuant of Act 97 and Act 101,
and must be licensed by the County Commissioners or their designated agent.
      (3)   All collection vehicles conveying domestic waste and garbage shall
be watertight and suitably enclosed to prevent leakage, roadside littering,
attraction of vectors, the creation of odors and other nuisances.
      (4)   Collection vehicles for rubbish and other non-putrescible solid
waste shall be capable of being enclosed or covered to prevent roadside
littering and other nuisances.
      (5)   All solid waste shall be collected and transported so as to prevent
public health hazards, safety hazards and nuisances.
      (6)   All solid waste collection vehicles shall be operated and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CHARGES.
   (A)   The governing body of the municipality shall be authorized to make
funds available, in accordance with the laws and procedures of the
municipality, for the establishment, maintenance and operation of the municipal
solid waste collection and transportation system; or for the contracting of
such service to a private collector.
   (B)   (1)   Annual fee schedules shall be adopted by the municipality based
upon the actual costs of collecting municipal waste within the municipality.
      (2)   Anticipated volumes generated by other than single-family
households and assessed against all properties in the municipality containing
improvements suitable for any use which could generate municipal waste will be
assessed a fee in accordance with the fee schedule of the contracted garbage
disposal agency.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 50.07  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent a landowner or
occupier from creating and maintaining a compost pile provided it is formed
entirely from vegetable wastes, is maintained so as to be digested from aerobic
bacteria only, and in a manner which neither causes pollution nor is offensive
to neighbors of reasonable sensibilities.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the disposal of
agricultural waste upon an active farm, by burning, burial or composting
provided that such disposal is conducted in a manner not to cause pollution of
the air or water and so as not to interfere with neighbors use of their land.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 50.08  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals shall be made in writing to the governing body of the
municipality.
   (B)   Pending a reversal or modification, all decisions of the municipality
shall remain effective and enforceable.
   (C)   Appeals may be made by the following persons: any person who is
aggrieved by a new standard, regulation, determination or assessment issued by
the municipality may appeal within ten days after the municipality gives notice
of its intention to issue the new standard or regulation.
   (D)   The notice of appeal shall be served in writing and sent by certified
mail with return receipt requested. Within 20 days after receipt of the notice
of appeal, the municipality shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the hearing
shall be sent to both parties in time to adequately prepare for the hearing.
Notice shall be sent to the parties by certified mail with return receipt
requested at the last known address in addition to publication in the local
newspaper.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 50.09  INJUNCTION POWERS.
   The municipality may petition the Court of Common Pleas of the county for an
injunction, either mandatory or prohibitive, to enforce any of the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
GARBAGE COLLECTION STAMPS
§ 50.20  GARBAGE COLLECTION STAMP.
   Beginning with the effective date of this subchapter (January 1, 1975), each
residence of the township shall be charged for garbage collection. Payment of
this charge shall be represented by the issuance of a stamp in a form to be
designated by the Township Supervisors.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1974)
§ 50.21  FEE FOR ISSUANCE OF STAMP.
   An annual fee, $12, will be charged each residence of the township for
garbage collection. This fee shall be paid at the times and places to be
designated by the township.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1974)
§ 50.22  DISPLAY OF STAMP.
   Upon the payment of the fee above mentioned, a stamp will be issued by the
township. This stamp shall be displayed by each residence in a manner so that
the collectors of garbage will be able to identify the residence as having paid
the fee for garbage collection. Failure to display the stamp in such a manner
that the garbage collectors can easily see said stamp shall result in the
garbage not being collected until the stamp is properly displayed.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1974)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor which is punishable by
a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or in default of payment of
such fine, then by imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days, or both.
Each day of violation shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-18-2003)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Jefferson Avenue sanitary sewer
   
51.02   Connection, alteration or extension of sewage disposal systems
Sanitary Sewerage System
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Connection of all occupied buildings to sanitary sewer system
   
51.17   Failure to connect
   
51.18   Privies, cesspools, septic tanks and the like
   
51.19   Rules for connection
   
51.20   Construction expense
   
51.21   Roof drains
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  JEFFERSON AVENUE SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   The construction of a sanitary sewer is hereby authorized and directed
along Jefferson Avenue, in an easterly direction, beginning at the intersection
of said Jefferson Avenue and Chestnut Street, to Oak Street, approximately 950
feet.
   (B)   The said sanitary sewer shall be ten inches in diameter.
   (C)   The work of the construction of said sewer, and the purchase of
material and labor necessary may be done or furnished, or caused to be done or
furnished, in whole or in part, by contract to the lowest responsible bidder on
specifications of the Township Engineer, or the same may be done by the
township authorities as said Supervisors may determine.
   (D)   In the event the said township authorities determine to do the said
work, then the Road Supervisor is hereby authorized and directed to purchase
all material necessary or required to construct the said sewer, and he or she
is also hereby authorized to employ all labor required to properly lay and
complete said sewer.
   (E)   Upon the completion and construction of said sewer, the cost thereof
shall be assessed to and collected from the owners of property adjacent or
abutting upon said improvement by an equal assessment of the feet front to be
estimated by the Township Engineer in accordance with the foot front rule. The
Township Engineer shall certify the same in writing, showing the date of the
completion of said improvement, names of the abutting land owners, the
assessable front footage of each and the amount of the assessment against each
parcel of land, and shall file the same with the Township Secretary, who shall
promptly thereafter serve notice in writing on the said property owners,
setting forth their prorata share of said costs, and that the same must be paid
within 30 days from the date of said notice.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-28-1958)
§ 51.02  CONNECTION, ALTERATION OR EXTENSION OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation
to erect, construct in any way, alter or extend any sewage disposal system of
any kind within the limits of the township until a permit to so do shall first
be obtained as provided herein.
   (B)   The application for all permits shall be made to the Township
Secretary, who shall refer such applications to the Permit Enforcement Officer
or enforcement official appointed or designated by the Board of Supervisors of
the township.
   (C)   The Permit Officer or Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit upon
compliance by the applicant with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act, P.L. 1535, No. 537 of January 24, 1966, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., as amended, and any regulations adopted thereunder, all of which are
hereby incorporated and made a part of this section; provided, however, that
the provisions of said Act and the regulations adopted thereunder shall apply
in every and all cases regardless of the size of land, lot or area to be served
by the sewage system and notwithstanding any limitations to the contrary in
said Act and any regulations adopted thereunder.
   (D)   All applications for permits shall be in writing, shall be signed by
the applicant and shall be on the standard form adopted or prescribed by the
Department of Health of the commonwealth.
   (E)   The fee charged for the application required herein shall be $50 and
shall be paid by the applicant to the Enforcement Officer at the time of filing
of the application. The fee shall be used to defer in part the cost of
processing the application and conducting the tests required for the granting
of the permit, and shall not be refunded to the applicant in the event that a
permit is not granted.
(Ord. 13, passed 9-1-1968)  Penalty, see §
51.99
SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM
§ 51.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 203. The Act of 1990 P. L. 1227 setting and establishing connection and
tapping fees for municipal sanitary sewer systems.
   AUTHORITY. The Forest Hills Municipal Authority (FHMA), or any other
authority empowered by agreement with the Forest Hills Municipal Authority or
the municipality to operate the sewer system or parts thereof.
   BUILDING SEWER. The privately owned extension from the sewage drainage
system of any structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   CONNECTION. The complete construction and installation of a building sewer
in compliance with all municipality and authority requirements.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). The average amount of sewage flow expected
to be generated by a single-family dwelling.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within this municipality upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage and/or
industrial waste shall or may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any property located in this municipality used or
intended for use, wholly or in part, for the manufacturing, processing,
cleaning, laundering or assembling of any product, commodity or article, or any
other property located in this municipality from which wastes, in addition to
or other than sanitary sewage, shall be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any and all wastes discharged from an industrial
establishment, other than sanitary sewage.
   INFLOW AND INFILTRATION (I & I). Surface water and/or ground water which
enters the sewer system by any means. This subchapter expressly prohibits any
person from causing, allowing or permitting any quantity of inflow and
infiltration to enter the sewer system.
   LATERAL. The publicly owned portion of the sewer system extending from a
sewer to the property line, to a point designated by the municipality or
authority, or if no such LATERAL shall be provided, the LATERAL that portion
of, or place in a sewer which is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Summerhill, Pennsylvania.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation or other group or entity.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
property.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting apart of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes situate in or adjacent to this municipality and owned by the
authority.
   WILDCAT SEWER. A sewer that provides collection but no treatment, not
specifically owned by the authority.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)
§ 51.16  CONNECTION OF ALL OCCUPIED BUILDINGS TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   All persons in the municipality owning improved property which is adjoining
and adjacent to the sewer system are hereby required to connect with and use
said sewer system. Failure to connect within 60 days after written notice to do
so has been provided, as defined in §
51.17, shall be a violation of this subchapter. Said connection shall be at the
sole cost of the owner. Any person who cannot comply with the above
requirements due to causes beyond his or her control shall apply to the
municipality or authority within said 60-day period for a time extension not to
exceed six months’ duration. Said application shall be made on a form furnished
by the municipality or the authority and shall contain an agreement whereby the
applicant voluntarily commences payment of the regular, monthly sewer rates
immediately, even though actual connection to the sewer system will not be
accomplished until some later date within the said six months’ extension
period.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17  FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies provided herein, should any
adjoining or adjacent owners or persons whose principal building is within 150
feet from the sewer system fail to connect with and use the sewer system within
a period of 60 days after written notice to do so has been served by the
township or the authority, either by personal service or certified mail, the
township, the authority or their designated agent, may enter the property and
construct the building sewer. The township or authority shall send an itemized
bill of the cost of construction to the owner of the property to which the
connection has been made, which bill is payable immediately. If the owner fails
to pay the bill within 30 days, the township or the authority shall within six
months of the date of completion of the connection, file a municipal lien for
the cost of construction, a 10% surcharge thereon, and applicable interest
penalties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupier of any property
adjoining or adjacent to the sewer system to employ any means for disposal of
acceptable sanitary sewage (as determined by the authority’s rules and
regulations) other than into and through the sewer system.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18  PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS AND THE LIKE.
   No privies, cesspools, sinkholes, septic tanks or other receptacle for human
excrement shall at the present time or any time in the future be connected with
the sewer system.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19  RULES FOR CONNECTION.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect to the sewer system until the
following has been complied with.
   (A)   Application shall be made to the authority, as the municipality’s
agent, upon a form supplied by the authority for permission to connect to the
sewer system. A separate application form must be completed for each individual
unit intended to be provided sewer service and said application(s) shall fully
describe the character and use of each unit.
   (B)   Payment of the Act 203 fee imposed by the authority shall be made by
the owner for each equivalent dwelling unit to be connected to the sewer system
at the time of making application therefor. The method of determining an EDU
and calculation of multiple EDUs is covered by the rules and regulations of the
authority.
   (C)   No work shall be done prior to the payment of said fee(s) and until
the applicant has familiarized themselves with the authority rules and
regulations relating to completion of an acceptable building sewer, including,
but not limited to, materials, fittings, installation, backfilling, inspection
and testing, particularly as the construction relates to the elimination of
inflow and infiltration.
   (D)   At least 24 hours’ notice of the time when a connection is to be made
shall be given to an Inspector designated by the municipality or the authority
so that said Inspector can be present to inspect the building sewer line. Such
inspection shall include witnessing the testing as required by the authority
rules and regulations, as performed by the applicant and determining that the
building sewer complies with all requirements as to the proper construction and
elimination of all sources of inflow and infiltration. If the building sewer
passes all tests, the Inspector shall signify his or her approval by endorsing
his or her name and the date of approval on the application in the possession
of the owner or occupier. Said application shall contain language that the
owner understands the requirement of elimination and exclusion of inflow and
infiltration, and thereafter will not make any modifications to the plumbing
and drainage without the knowledge, inspection and approval of the authority.
   (E)   At the time of inspection, the Inspector shall be permitted complete
access to all sanitary and drainage arrangements and facilities in each
building and in and about all parts of the property in order to determine the
nature and extent of the piping network to be connected to the authority’s
sewer system. No pre-existing sewer drainage piping may be connected to the
applicant’s new building sewer until such pre-existing piping has passed the
required tests as specified in division (F) below and the rules and regulations
of the authority. No building sewer line shall be backfilled, or in any manner
concealed, until after approval by the Inspector.
   (F)   Testing requirements must meet or exceed those as contained in the
most current edition of the BOCA at National Plumbing Code or the CABO at One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
   (G)   No approved sewer may be extended, altered, repaired, replaced and/or
tampered with in any way without notice to the authority. Subsequent to any
alteration of any sewer connection, retesting, in accordance with the
authority’s rules and regulations is required. In addition, retesting to ensure
continued compliance with the rules and regulations shall be performed at any
time necessary based upon inspections by the authority or municipality.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20  CONSTRUCTION EXPENSE.
   The construction of all building sewer lines to the lateral of the sewer
system shall be done at the sole expense of the owner. Said construction shall
be done to eliminate all sources of I & I, in accordance with the
specifications, plans and procedures established by the municipality and the
authority as set forth in the authority’s sewer system rules and regulations,
as the same may from time to time be published and amended, copies of which,
upon adoption, shall be maintained on file with the Municipal Secretary and the
authority.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)
§ 51.21  ROOF DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation connected to the
sewer system to connect any roof drain thereto or permit any roof drain to
remain connected thereto or to permit, allow or cause to enter into said sewer
system any storm water, foundation water, spring water, surface water, any
unacceptable sewage or industrial waste (as determined by the authority’s rules
and regulations), or any sewage or industrial waste from any property, building
or unit other than that for which an application has been made.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
51.02 shall, upon conviction thereof before any Justice of the Peace or
Supervisor in a proceeding commenced by warrant or summons, be fined a sum not
in excess of $300 for each and every offense. Upon judgment against any person
by summary conviction, or by proceedings by summons on default of the payment
of the fine and costs, the defendant may be sentenced and committed to the
County Jail for a period not exceeding 30 days. Each and every day that
erection, construction, alteration or extension continue without first securing
a permit in violation of the provisions in §
51.02 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be subject to
separate and distinct penalties.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any penalty hereinabove prescribed in §§
51.15 through
51.21, any person, or persons, failing to make a proper connection within the
time specified after due notice, shall be subject to prosecution in accordance
with the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure for the enforcement of
summary offenses. Upon conviction of same, said person shall pay a fine not to
exceed $1,000 and may be imprisoned in the County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days. Each day or portion thereof for which said violation is found
to exist shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
      (2)   Any person or persons violating any other provision of §§
51.15 through
51.21 (other than a failure to connect) shall be prosecuted as hereinbefore set
forth, and upon conviction shall pay a fine not to exceed $300 and may be
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days in the County Jail. Each day or
portion thereof for which said violation is found to exist shall constitute a
separate offense hereunder.
      (3)   For purposes of enforcement of §§
51.15 through
51.21, the authority is hereby empowered to make the initial determination of
ordinance violation and is similarly empowered to serve the notice of
violation.
(Ord. 49, passed 12-16-1997)
CHAPTER 52:  HOLDING TANKS
Section
   
52.01   Purposes
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Rights and privileges granted
   
52.04   Rules and regulations
   
52.05   Permits
   
52.06   Plan
   
52.07   Construction standards
   
52.08   Limitations upon use of privy
   
52.09   Removal of privy
   
52.10   Duties of owner
   
52.11   Charges
   
52.12   Notice to subsequent purchasers or tenants
   
52.13   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
52.14   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of existing and new privies and holding tanks which are designed to
receive and retain sewage.
   (B)   It is hereby declared by the Board of Supervisors of the township that
the enactment of this chapter is necessary for the protection, benefit and
preservation of health, safety health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
this municipality.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. Any employee of the township empowered by the township and/or the
commonwealth to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The term AGENT shall
include, but shall not be limited to, any certified Sewage Enforcement Officer
duly appointed by the Township Board of Supervisors.
   BOARD. Board of Supervisors of Summerhill Township, Cambria County,
Pennsylvania.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary, which
receives and retains sewage conveyed by a water-carrying system and is designed
and constructed to facilitate the ultimate disposal of the sewage at another
site. For purposes of this chapter, a HOLDING TANK shall have a capacity of no
less than 1,000 gallons.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   MUNICIPALITY. Summerhill Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   PRIVY. A watertight tank designed to receive sewage where water under
pressure and piped wastewater are not available.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products, excrement or
other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious or
deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation. SEWAGE shall include GRAY WATER which is further defined as
discharge from any shower, tub, sink, washing machine or other facility used
for bathing or washing, including dishwater and water softener discharge.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.03  RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES GRANTED.
   The Board of Supervisors, hereinafter referred to as “Board”, is hereby
authorized and empowered to regulate as specified herein, within the
municipality, the methods of holding tank use, privy use, sewage collection,
transportation and disposal resulting from such use.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations concerning sewage which it may deem necessary from time to time to
effect the purposes herein.
   (B)   All such rules and regulations adopted by the Board shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the
municipality, and all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.05  PERMITS.
   Upon and after the enactment of this chapter, no privy shall be installed,
utilized or otherwise placed in service, by any owner or person until said
owner or person has obtained a permit from the municipality. Application for
the permit shall be made upon a form and shall be accompanied by a fee, as
designated by resolution or ordinance or the Supervisors of the municipality,
or shall be made upon a form as designated by the applicable state agency. The
minimum permit application fee shall be $125, and this amount may be amended by
resolution of the Supervisors of the municipality.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.06  PLAN.
   The permit application shall be accompanied by a plan setting forth the
proposed construction design of the privy. Specifications required to be set
forth in said plan shall be issued by the municipality’s Sewage Enforcement
Officer or by another person designated by the municipality. Failure to
construct in accordance with any plan approved by the municipality or its agent
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   At a minimum, any privy located within the municipality shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be in accordance with applicable state laws
and regulations and the following standards.
      (1)   The privy shall be located so as to minimize any danger of
contamination of water supplies. Unless exemption shall be granted by the
Supervisors, in writing, the privy shall be downgrade and at least 50 feet from
any source of water supply.
      (2)   The privy shall be located at least 50 feet away from any building
served.
      (3)   The privy shall be located at least 50 feet from any structure
owned by any person other than the user/applicant, which other structure is
used seasonally or on a full-time basis for human occupation unless said person
shall, in writing, consent to the placement closer than said distance.
      (4)   The privy shall be located at least ten feet away from any boundary
line unless the owner of the adjacent property shall consent, in writing, to
the placement closer than said distance.
   (B)   The provisions and standards of division (A)(3) above may be waived by
resolution of the Supervisors, which waiver will be considered on a case-by-
case basis.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08  LIMITATIONS UPON USE OF PRIVY.
   (A)   Privies may be installed only upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicable official township plan or the revision thereto
indicates the use of privies for the lot at issue and further that said
premises have been tested for and meet the requirements for the ultimate sewage
disposal by one of the systems described in 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73 (relating to
construction of absorption areas);
      (2)   When the privy will be installed upon an isolated lot which is one
acre or larger and which lot is not served by water under pressure (including
pressure by gravity); or
      (3)   When the privy or privies will be installed for a period of less
than 90 days when a use is proposed at construction sites or at the site of
public gatherings and entertainments.
   (B)   In all events, privies may not be utilized or constructed upon
premises served by water under pressure or upon premises for which piped waste
water collection services are available. This division (B) may be waived by
resolution of the Supervisors of the municipality when the privy is to be
permitted for temporary installation in accordance with division (A)(3) above.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09  REMOVAL OF PRIVY.
   The owner of any premises upon which there is erected or installed a privy
shall comply with the following conditions upon said premises becoming served
with water under pressure or upon piped wastewater collection becoming
available to said premises:
   (A)   Within 60 days of said event, remove all contents from the privy and
discontinue use of the same; and
   (B)   Within 120 days, unearth, disconnect and remove all plumbing and
piping attached to said privy and remove, fill or otherwise render said privy
unusable for the purpose of the storage or sewage.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10  DUTIES OF OWNER.
   Owners of property upon which there is installed a privy shall:
   (A)   Permit the municipality to inspect the privy as required by the
municipality. Application for a privy permit shall be deemed consent by the
owner and all subsequent owners of said privy for the municipality, its agents
or employees to go upon the premises upon which the privy is located and to
make all necessary inspections thereof;
   (B)   Maintain and operate the privy in conformance with this and all other
ordinances and resolutions of the municipality, the provisions of any
applicable law, rule or regulation of the commonwealth, its subdivisions and
administrative agencies; and
   (C)   Not permit the discharge of sewage onto the surface, into the ground
or into the water of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11  CHARGES.
   The owner shall pay to the municipality all amounts which shall be assessed
or charged to the owner and incurred by the municipality in association with
the enforcement of this chapter. It is intended that said charges will include,
but not necessarily be limited to, the hourly or other fees as charged by the
municipality’s Sewage Enforcement Officer for inspection or other tasks
necessary for the maintenance of the privy pursuant to this chapter. In
addition, the municipality shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge
and collect rates, assessments and other charges as it shall, from time to
time, adopt by resolution or ordinance or as the same may be required within 30
days of the mailing of said charges to the owner or the posting of notice of
said charges upon the premises which the privy is located and may be collected
from one or more or all of the owners of said premises. Any charges imposed
hereunder may also be charged and collected as municipal liens in accordance
with law. The deposit shall be used for enforcement, inspection and the like.
The deposit shall be in the amount of $1,000. Any unused balance of the deposit
shall be refunded by the township when the privy is removed or a new deposit
made when the property is transferred.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996; Res. 42-09/06/2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 52.12  NOTICE TO SUBSEQUENT PURCHASERS OR TENANTS.
   Any owner of premises upon which there is installed a privy who intends to
grant, sell, convey, lease, sublease or otherwise assign or transfer an
interest in the premises to another party shall be required to provide the
other party 30 days’ advance notice, in writing, of the fact that the premises
is served by a privy. Any new owner must reapply for a permit, which shall not
be issued as a matter of course. A new permit fee and deposit must be paid by
the new owner.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.13  EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any property
utilizing a holding tank shall be completed under the direction and control of
the Board or its agent, and the disposal thereof shall be made only at such
site or sites as may be approved by the Department of Environmental Protection
of the commonwealth.
   (B)   The Board or its agent shall be provided pumping receipts from
permitted holding tanks and documentation of receipt from a Department of
Environmental Protection approved receiving station.
   (C)   The Board or its agent will complete and retain annual inspection
reports for each permitted tank.
   (D)   (1)   The Board or its agent shall permit a holding tank only for
properties whose primary use is recreational; or properties where use of a
holding tank shall be deemed necessary to abate a nuisance. In no event shall a
holding tank be permitted by the Board or its agent as a permanent system of
sewage disposal for residential purposes.
      (2)   Property owners shall comply with all applicable state regulations
for holding tank use.
   (E)   Holding tanks will only be permitted with appropriate Department of
Environmental Protection approval.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter or available
under law, any violation of this chapter shall be reviewed by the Supervisors
of the municipality and if said review shall warrant, be deemed a nuisance to
be abated by the municipality by either seeking mitigation of the nuisance or
appropriate equitable or legal relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The municipality may assess to the owner any and all charges or other
costs incurred in the abatement of said nuisance pursuant to the Township Code,
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
determination thereof, be assessed a penalty of not less than $100 and not more
than $600 plus costs. Each day upon which a violation of this chapter shall
continue shall be deemed a separate violation subject to a separate penalty
hereunder.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-18-1996)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER
Section
   
53.01   Connection to public water system
   
53.02   Means of obtaining water other than public water system
   
53.03   Notice
   
53.04   Connection/interconnection
   
53.05   Standard tap-in rate to be charged
   
53.06   Connection conditions
   
53.07   Missing material
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   Every owner of property in the township whose property abuts upon any
portion of the public water supply and distribution system shall connect the
house, building or other structures located on said property with the
aforementioned public water system, and thereafter pay for service in
accordance with the authority’s appropriate prevailing rate schedule.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02  MEANS OF OBTAINING WATER OTHER THAN PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupier of any of the
aforementioned property in the township, after completion of construction, to
employ any means of obtaining water for purposes of human consumption other
than from said public water system.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03  NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Township Secretary or the authorized
representative of either Highland Sewer and Water Authority or Tri Township
Water Authority (hereinafter called the “authority”) to notify the owner,
lessee or occupier of each structure covered hereunder in writing, either by
personal service, certified mail or registered mail, to connect the same, as
herein provided, within 45 days after receipt of such notice. Any owner, lessee
or occupier of a structure who cannot comply with the provisions of this
section as to connection within the 45-day period stipulated above due to
causes beyond his or her control should apply to the Township Secretary or
authority within said 45-day period for a time extension of up to six months in
duration. Said application shall be made on a form to be furnished by the
Township Secretary or the authority and shall contain a voluntary agreement on
the part of the applicant under which the applicant shall agree to commence
paying the regular monthly water bill immediately.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)
§ 53.04  CONNECTION/INTERCONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect with or
permit the connection of any other property by any other person, firm or
corporation or to interconnect any other source of water supply for human
consumption within the property.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  STANDARD TAP-IN RATE TO BE CHARGED.
   In consideration of an agreement entered into between Highland Sewer and
Water Authority or Tri Township Water Authority (“authority”), the
Redevelopment Authority of the county (“county”) and the township (“township”),
the authority will charge its prevailing, standard tap-in fee to any customer.
The authority will levy a charge to said customers for the cost and
installation of the water meter and remote meter as required by the authority’s
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)
§ 53.06  CONNECTION CONDITIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make or cause to be made any connection
until he or she has fulfilled all of the following conditions.
   (A)   He or she shall make application to the Township Secretary, or the
authority as the township’s agent, upon a permanent form to be formulated and
supplied by the Township Secretary or the authority for permission to connect.
Among other things, the applicant must state the character and use of each
structure located on his or her property.
   (B)   He or she shall pay the required applicable tap connection fee as
established and imposed by the authority at the time of making application for
permission to make a connection.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  MISSING MATERIAL.
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   [Missing material]
   ....to undergo an imprisonment of not less than five days nor more than 30
days in the County Jail.
(Ord. 58, passed 12- -2003)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Use of electrical speed time and other speed monitoring devices
§ 70.01  USE OF ELECTRICAL SPEED TIME AND OTHER SPEED MONITORING DEVICES.
   Pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Code of the commonwealth, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 6101
et seq., it is hereby ordained as follows.
   (A)   The Police Department of the township is hereby authorized to monitor,
control and enforce established speed restrictions and limits on streets and
highways located within the boundaries of the township by use of the Excessive
Speed Preventer (ESP) Model TK100, Vas-car or such other electrical speed
timing devices or any other speed monitoring device now, or as may be hereafter
authorized by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for use by local
authorities.
   (B)   Notice of the adoption of this section authorizing the use of
electrical speed timing devices to monitor and enforce established speed
restrictions and limits shall be given to the public by the erection of signs
on streets and highways, as provided by law. If later court determinations
remove the necessity to post signs, then those signs may be removed.
(Ord. 30, passed 3-15-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Specific powers of department and local authorities, see 75 Pa.C.S. § 6109
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibitions
   
71.02   Parking on private property
   
71.03   Parking regulations
   
71.04   Parking of commercial equipment
   
71.05   Exceptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  PROHIBITIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to protect the
safety of any person or vehicle, or in compliance with law or the direction of
a police officer or official traffic-control device, the following prohibitions
shall be in effect.
   (A)   Stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle is expressly prohibited
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street;
      (2)   On any sidewalk;
      (3)   Within any intersection;
      (4)   On any crosswalk;
      (5)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb immediately opposite
the ends of a safety zone;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction which
would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure;
      (8)   On any railroad tracks;
      (9)   On public or private property which is expressly reserved for
handicapped persons or disabled veterans when said property has been posted in
accordance with the regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation; and
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit same.
   (B)   Standing and parking of vehicles is expressly prohibited under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
traffic-control signal located at the site of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or when
properly posted, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within 75 feet of the entrance; and
      (6)   Any place where official signs prohibit the same.
   (C)   Parking a vehicle is expressly prohibited under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; and
      (2)   Any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (D)   During the time period of November 15 to April 1, no motor homes,
truck campers, utility trailers, recreational trailers or trailers shall be
parked on any street or within two feet of the edge of the right-of-way in the
township. This is to facilitate the removal of snow during this time period.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-6-1997)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave unattended a vehicle on private property
without the consent of the owner or other person in control of possession of
the property, except in the case of an emergency or disablement of the vehicle,
in which case the operator shall arrange for the removal of the vehicle as soon
as possible.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to private
parking lots unless such lots are posted to notify the public of any parking
restrictions in which case the operator of a vehicle should not violate said
posted restrictions. For the purpose of this section PRIVATE PARKING LOT means
a parking lot open to the public and used for parking with or without charge.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-6-1997)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every vehicle which is standing or parked on a two-way highway shall
be positioned parallel to either the curb or the edge of the highway and in all
cases in the direction of authorized traffic movement. The vehicles shall be
parked such that the right-hand curb, or in the absence of a curb, as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle which is standing or parked on a one-way highway shall
be positioned parallel to the curb or edge of the highway in the direction of
authorized traffic movement. Said vehicle shall be parked so that its wheels
are within 12 inches from the curb, or in the absence of a curb, as close as
practicable to the shoulder of the road.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-6-1997)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  PARKING OF COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Generally. No commercial equipment, including, but not limited to,
trucks, tandems (in excess of one-ton capacity), tractor-trailers, tractors or
other commercial construction, or cargo moving vehicles or equipment shall be
parked upon any highway or street within the township. Furthermore, no
commercial equipment as described in this division (A) shall be parked or
stored upon any highway or street in the township after completion of the
working day.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the restrictions set forth
in division (A) above.
      (1)   Any commercial equipment described in this section may legally park
for the purpose of delivering goods or rendering services during the normal
course of business, provided that such vehicle does not substantially impede
the flow of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Vehicles being used for the purpose of road construction shall be
permitted to park, stand or stop on any highway or street within the township
when construction is in progress upon said highway or street.
(Ord. 46, passed 1-6-1997)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   There shall be exempted from this prohibition the temporary parking of a
vehicle on township roads upon the occurrence of a vehicle break-down or other
emergency that disables the vehicle.  Vehicles so parked as a result of vehicle
break-down or other emergency shall be removed from the prohibited area within
24 hours.  This exception is not intended to authorize any parking on the road
cartway unless the vehicle break-down or other necessitating emergency occurs
at a location where removal from the road cartway is physically impossible. 
This exception is not allowed during snow storms or during the time required
for snow removal following a snow storm.  Other than a flat tire being changed,
the disabled vehicle must be removed from the roadside to be repaired.  Repairs
cannot be made while parked on or along the roadway.  For the purpose of this
prohibition, the road cartway is the paved or main travel portion of the
roadway.
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §§
71.01 or
71.03. Any person violating any provision of §§
71.01 or
71.03 shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon conviction before a
District Magistrate within the magisterial district of which the township is a
part, shall be fined $20 plus costs of prosecution. In default of the payment
of any fine, such person shall be liable for imprisonment of not more than ten
days in the County Prison.
   (B)   Violations of §§
71.02,
71.04 or
71.05. Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.02,
71.04 or
71.05 shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon conviction before a
District Magistrate within the magisterial district to which the township is a
part, shall be fined $50 per day plus costs of prosecution. In default of the
payment of any fine, such person shall be liable for imprisonment of not more
than ten days in the County Prison.
   (C)   Reduced penalty. In all cases where a police officer of the township
first gives notice to a person of any violation of this chapter, either by
personal service to the offending operator or by affixing to the vehicle in
violation a ticket noting the date, time and location of the offense, nature of
the offense charged and the license registration of the vehicle in violation,
prosecution shall not be instituted for 72 hours thereafter. If, during the
said 72-hour period, the offending operator voluntarily appears at the office
of the Township Secretary during regular business hours, voluntarily enters a
plea of guilty and pays a fine in accordance with the fee schedule listed, for
violating a provision of this chapter, no prosecution for said offense shall be
brought. In the alternative, said offender may forward to the office of the
township police by regular mail the appropriate fine and no prosecution for the
offense shall thereafter be brought so long as the envelope is postmarked
within 72 hours of the violation.
 
Fee Schedule
Offense                   Fee
1 - 3 parking offenses    $10 per offense
4 - 6 parking offenses    $25 per offense
7 - 10 parking offenses   $50 per offense
After 10 parking offenses $100 per offense
Note: Parking violations are cumulative; each time a fine is added to any
prior offense, there is no end date, they are cumulative for a lifetime.
 
(Ord. 46, passed 1-6-1997)
CHAPTER 72:  WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Short title
   
72.02   Enactment
   
72.03   Definitions
   
72.04   Findings of the Board of Supervisors
   
72.05   Vehicle weight limits established
   
72.06   Permits and security
   
72.07   Erection of signs
   
72.08   Fee schedule
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Motor Vehicle Weight Limitation
Ordinance of Summerhill”.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
§ 72.02  ENACTMENT.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred by the Vehicle
Code, Act of 1976, June 17, P.L. 1962, No. 81, § 1, effective July 1, 1977 (75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), as amended and is intended to include and be subject
to all provisions of § 4902 of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902 and all
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation regulations promulgated or to be
promulgated under the Vehicle Code, by way of illustration and not limitation,
under §§ 4902(a)(1) and 6103 (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4902(a)(1) and 6103).
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
§ 72.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A Fire Department vehicle, police vehicle, ambulance,
blood delivery vehicle, Armed Forces emergency vehicle, one private vehicle of
a Fire or Police Chief or Assistant Chief, or ambulance corps commander or
assistant commander, or of a river rescue commander used for answering
emergency calls, or other vehicle designated by the State Police under 75
Pa.C.S.A. § 6106 of the Vehicle Code (relating to designation of emergency
vehicles by Pennsylvania State Police).
   LOCAL TRAFFIC. Emergency vehicles and school buses, defined herein, vehicles
and combinations or governmental entities and utilities where their contractors
are engaged in construction or maintenance on a posted highway or in a location
which can be reached only via a posted highway, and vehicles and combinations
going to or coming from a residence or farm located on a posted highway or
which can be reached only via a posted highway.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or combination as defined and/or governed by the
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
   SCHOOL BUS. A motor vehicle designated for carrying more than ten
passengers, exclusive of the driver, and used for the transportation of school
children.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
§ 72.04  FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   The Board of Supervisors has determined and hereby determines based upon
engineering studies conducted by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
and otherwise, that the roads listed in Ch. 73, Schedule II may be damaged or
destroyed unless the permissible weight of motor vehicles is restricted to the
weight limits listed in that schedule.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the findings under §
72.04, and by authority of 75 Pa. C.S.A. § 4902 of the Vehicle Code and
regulations promulgated thereunder, no motor vehicle or combination shall be
operated upon any of the roads listed in
Ch. 73, Schedule II with gross weight in excess of the weight limits listed for
said road in
Ch. 73, Schedule II.
   (B)   Local traffic as defined in §
72.03 shall be exempted from the restrictions imposed under division (A) above.
However, if the Board of Supervisors determines that any local traffic is
likely to damage the road, the Board of Supervisors will so notify the
registrants of the motor vehicle or combination and will also notify the State
Police. After two business days following delivery of the notice, or after five
days following mailing of the notice, such local traffic vehicles shall not
exceed the weight limits except in accordance with §
72.07.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  PERMITS AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township may issue permits for the
movement of motor vehicles or combinations with weights in excess of the
restrictions imposed under
Ch. 73, Schedule II, and may require such undertaking or security as it deems
necessary to cover the costs of anticipated or probable repairs and restoration
necessitated by the permitted movement of vehicles.
   (B)   All actions taken under the authority of this section shall be taken
in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the commonwealth,
Department of Transportation, as found in Pa. Code Title 67.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
§ 72.07  ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   The township shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained, restriction
signs designating the restrictions at the end of the portion of road restricted
as provided in this chapter. In the case of a restriction on a road which has
not begun or ended at an intersection with an unrestricted highway, the
township shall also place an advance informational sign at the intersection
nearest each end of the restricted portion of the road which would allow
drivers to avoid the restricted portion of road.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
§ 72.08  FEE SCHEDULE.
   Permit fees to operate vehicles in excess of ten tons on restricted weight
township roads are as follows:
   (A)   Initial inspection fee.  The fee for the township to inspect the
township roads to any hauling will be $200.
   (B)   Administrative fee. The fee for the Township Secretary to complete all
paperwork necessary to issue a permit to operate vehicles in excess of ten tons
on restricted weight townships roads will be $25 per permit.
   (C)   Interim inspection fee. The fee for the township to inspect the
township roads prior to any significant hauling hiatus by the permittee will be
$50.
   (D)   Cost-use inspect fee. The fee for the township to inspect the township
roads once all hauling has been concluded will be $100.
   (E)   Third party consultation fees. In the event that the Board of
Supervisors determines that a third party consultation is necessary to
determine the extent of damage caused by excessive hauling, the permittee is
responsible for all costs associated with said consultation.
   (F)   Road video inspection fees. The fee for videoing any road is $200 per
road (included in the initial inspection fee). If additional videoing is
necessary, the fee will be $100.
(Res. 235, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle or combination upon a road or bridge in
violation of a prohibition or restriction imposed under §
72.04 and
Ch. 73, Schedule II is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon conviction,
be sentenced to pay a fine of $75, except that any person convicted of
operating a vehicle with a gross weight in excess of a posted weight shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $150 plus $150 for each 500
pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable
weight.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-16-2001)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Weight limitations
      
III.   Prohibition of motor vehicles
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street Name      Location                 Speed Limit Ord./Res. Date Passed
Church Road                              25 mph      Res. 157  5-23-2000
McCormick Road   Middle of McCormick Road 25 mph      Res. 137  8-19-1997
Turkey Path Road                         25 mph      Res. 227  8-2-2016
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II.  WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
 
Route Numbers Street Name    Between      Weight Limit  Ord./Res. Date Passed
                                          (Ton)
              Church Road                10            Res. 159  9-5-2000
T-751         Friends Avenue S.R. 2007 to 10            53        10-16-2001
                             dead end
                             Wilmore
T-399         Pump Station   Borough to   10            53        10-16-2001
              Road           Portage
                             Township
                             S.R. 160 to
T-420         McCormick Road Cambria      10            53        10-16-2001
                             Township
              Willow Beach   S.R. 160 to
T-416         Road           Cambria      10            53        10-16-2001
                             Township
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE III.  PROHIBITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
 
Location           Restriction                          Ord./Res. Date Passed
Harvey Dickey Road No motor vehicles beyond property of Res. 242  4-3-2018
                   Darren Wright
Wilmore Heights    No motor vehicles beyond this point  Res. 176  4-6-2004
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibitions
      
II.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
Street Name Location of Restriction Restriction Ord./Res. Date Passed
Street    Location of Restriction                                         Restriction Ord./ Date
Name                                                                                  Res.  Passed
Ballfield West side, from Friends Avenue to Stone Street; Beaverdale      No parking  Res.  5-19-
Road                                                                                  136   1997
Blanche   East side, from Margaret Avenue to Michael Avenue; Beaverdale   No parking  Res.  1-4-
Street                                                                                146   1999
Cameron   North side of Cameron Avenue, Beaverdale, from the intersection             Res.  11-6-
Avenue    of Stewart Street, Beaverdale, to the intersection of Chestnut  No parking  243   2018
          Street, Beaverdale (a two-block area)
Cameron                                                                               Res.
Avenue                                                                    No parking  12-   12-4-
and Oak                                                                  from here   04-   2014
Street                                                                    to corner   2014
(SR869)
                                                                          10 minute
                                                                          parking
Cedar     Lower left side of the 300 block; Beaverdale                    between 8:  Res.  2-16-
Street                                                                    00 a.m.     148   1999
                                                                          until 5:00
                                                                          p.m.
Cedar     From Margaret Avenue to Howard Avenue; Beaverdale               No parking  Res.  12-7-
Street                                                                    anytime     180   2004
                                                                          No parking
Cedar     To Second Street intersection to Maple Street intersection      from        Res.  11-6-
Street                                                                    November 1  184   2006
                                                                          to April 1
Cedar     New Fire Hall entrance located at corner of Mitchell Avenue and No parking  Res.  9-18-
Street    Cedar Street                                                    from here   191   2007
                                                                          to corner
Cedar     West side of Cedar Street, Beaverdale, from the intersection of             Res.  11-6-
Street    Margaret Avenue, Beaverdale, to the intersection of Michael     No parking  243   2018
          Avenue, Beaverdale
Center    Behind the 500 block of Cedar Street                            No parking  Res.  9-5-
Alley                                                                                 158   2000
Greenhill From one end of the white fence on Christine Perla’s property             Res.  6-3-
Avenue    to the other end of the white fence on Christine Perla’s      No parking  6-    2014
          property                                                                    2014
Jefferson 900 block; Beaverdale                                           No parking  Res.  12-7-
Avenue                                                                                179   2004
                                                                          No parking
                                                                          on both     Res.
Jefferson                                                                 sides of    12-   12-23-
Avenue    1000 block                                                      street from 23-   2014
                                                                          November 15 2014
                                                                          through
                                                                          April 1
Jefferson Between Chestnut Street and Stewart Street                      No parking  Res.  12-18-
Avenue                                                                                195   2007
School                                                                    No parking
Place and Corner                                                          from here   Res.  1-25-
Spruce                                                                    to corner   156   2000
Street
Second                                                                    No parking  Res.  11-6-
Street    Stewart Street intersection                                     here to     184   2006
                                                                          corner
                                                                          No parking
Second    Intersection to Cameron Avenue to Beech Street                  from        Res.  11-6-
Street                                                                    November 1  184   2006
                                                                          to April 1
Sierra    South side; Wilmore Heights                                     No parking  Res.  12-3-
Street                                                                                128   1996
                                                                          No parking
                                                                          effective
                                                                          from 12:00
S.R. 2003 From Segment 0090 Offset 2231 (Beech Street) to the end of S.R. a.m. until  Res.  12-7-
          2003 (Oak Street)                                               6:00 a.m.,  181   2004
                                                                          November 1
                                                                          through
                                                                          April 15
                                                                          Church
                                                                          business
Stewart                                                                   parking     Res.  6-19-
Street    Eastside lane                                                   only; no    4-    2012
                                                                          parking on  2012
                                                                          the
                                                                          sidewalk
Walker                                                                                Res.
Avenue                                                                    No parking  12-   12-4-
and Henry                                                                from here   04-   2014
Street                                                                    to corner   2014
(T684)
Wilmore                                                                   No parking
Heights                                                                  from        Res.  11-6-
area                                                                      November 15 184   2006
                                                                          to March 31
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II.  HANDICAPPED PARKING.
 
Street Name    Location of    Restriction            Ord./Res.   Date Passed
               Restriction
                              Handicap parking only;
Cameron Avenue Westbound lane no parking on the      Res. 4-2012 6-19-2012
                              sidewalk
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping livestock and other animals
   
90.02   Dogs running at large
Confining Animals
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Prohibition
   
90.17   Exceptions
   
90.18   Fences and enclosures to be maintained
   
90.19   Presumptions
   
90.20   Capture and destruction of animals running at large
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep any horse or horses at any
place within the township, except with special permission from the Board of
Supervisors. Such permission shall be granted only on the following conditions:
the place where such horse or horses is proposed to be kept shall be so located
and the stable to be provided is such that no nuisance shall result therefrom.
No stable shall be located within 50 feet of any dwelling house or within 30
feet of any street. Every stable shall be kept in a sanitary condition and free
from unpleasant odors and conditions contributing to the breeding of flies.
Manure and filth shall not be permitted to accumulate to the annoyance of any
resident of the vicinity of persons traveling thereby. Any permission granted
by the Board of Health under this division (A) may be revoked thereby at any
time when any of the conditions of this division (A) are not complied with.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep any chickens or other fowl
at any place within the township except with special permission of the Board of
Supervisors. Such permission shall be granted only upon the following
conditions: such chickens or other fowl shall be kept in good condition,
healthy, clean and free from disease. Pens or coops shall be provided for all
chickens or other fowl, and no chickens or other fowl shall be kept in any
cellar or part thereof or shall be permitted to run at large. No pen or coop
shall be located within 25 feet of any dwelling or street. All pens and coops
shall be kept clean and free from vermin and shall be dry, airy, well-lighted
and not overcrowded. All refuse, food and excrement shall be removed as often
as necessary to prevent odors from developing therefrom. Any permission granted
by the Board of Supervisors under this division (B) may stipulate the maximum
number of chickens or other fowl that may be kept upon any premises thereunder,
and may be revoked at any time when any of the conditions hereof are not
complied with.
   (C)   No person shall bury any horse, cattle, sheep or swine at any place
within the limits of the township. Any person burying any other dead animal
within the limits of the township shall be required to bury the same not less
than three feet below the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-2-1970)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, custodian or keeper of any dog to allow
such dog to run at large at any time, either upon any of the roads, streets,
alleys or public grounds in the township, or upon the property of other than
the owner, keeper or custodian of such dog, unless accompanied by and under the
immediate control of such owner, custodian or keeper.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-30-1958)  Penalty, see §
90.99
CONFINING ANIMALS
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, mammal, fowl or reptile, domestic or agricultural,
excepting only persons or domestic cats.
   DISCOVERY OF ESCAPE OF AN ANIMAL. The earlier of:
      (1)   The time the responsible person had actual knowledge of the escape
of the animal;
      (2)   The time any responsible person, his or her legal representative or
adult member of his or her household is notified of the escape of the animal,
by telephone, mail or posting, upon the property on which the animal was last
confined; or
      (3)   When a person taking reasonable care of animals should have known
of its escape.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The person or legal entity either:
      (1)   Owning the property upon which the animals were legally located and
from confinement upon which the animals escaped; or
      (2)   The person having custody or legal evidence of ownership of the
animals.
   TRADITIONAL FARMING. The raising of plant crops, raising animals for
slaughter, milk, wool or other agricultural product; it shall not mean game
farms or hunting preserves, or the raising of animals in connection therewith.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 90.16  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person responsible to
commit or permit any of the following actions:
   (A)   Permit an animal to leave the property upon which it is confined;
   (B)   Permit an animal to enter onto a public roadway (other than crossing
the road under supervision to change pasturage) or property upon which express
permission has not been given in advance;
   (C)   Fails to take immediate steps to capture and re-confine any animal
which has escaped from the property to which it was confined;
   (D)   Fails to re-confine an escaped animal within 48 hours of the discovery
of its escape from confinement; or
   (E)   Fails to adequately maintain enclosure or fences for animals kept on
the property.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to and no prosecution shall be made in the
following situations:
   (A)   With regard to animals leaving fenced enclosures, no prosecution shall
be made the first time that animals leave an enclosure within any three-month
period provided the person responsible re-confines the animals within no more
than 48 hours from notice or discovery of the escape; or
   (B)   With respect to an owner of property who leases land to another for
traditional farming operations, no prosecution shall take place against the
owner of property until he or she has been given 48 hours’ notice to recapture
the animals.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 90.18  FENCES AND ENCLOSURES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   No animals shall be kept upon property within the township unless the same
are reasonably secured by fences, enclosures or other means sufficient to
prevent the animal’s escape.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  PRESUMPTIONS.
   It shall be a rebuttable presumption that if any animals have escaped from a
property more than once within a three-month period that the person responsible
has not maintained fences upon the property in the manner required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 90.20  CAPTURE AND DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   If the responsible person fails to capture and confine an animal within 120
hours of discovery of its escape, the township may, acting through its
employees or through delegated agents, capture and destroy and convert the
animal to any salvage value, without further notice or compensation to any
person claiming ownership of the animal. Such capture, destruction and
conversion may be in addition to imposition of penalties provided for in §
90.99(D). Capture and destruction of the animal shall not negate a responsible
person from being found guilty of violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate any of the
provisions of §
90.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than ten days.
   (C)   Any owner, custodian or keeper of any dog who shall violate the
provisions of §
90.02 may, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$25 and costs of prosecution, and in default of payment of such fine and costs,
to imprisonment for not more than five days.
   (D)   Violation of §§
90.16 or
90.18 shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $600 per
occurrence or per animal and imposition of legal costs as required by law.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-30-1958; Ord. 17, passed 9-2-1970; Ord. 75, passed 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
Motor Vehicles
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Motor vehicle nuisances prohibited
   
91.03   Exceptions
   
91.04   Enforcement
Hazardous Waste
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Disposal
   
91.17   Transportation
   
91.18   Special permit required
   
91.19   Carrying hazardous waste
   
91.20   Requirements for special permit
   
91.21   Public nuisance
   
91.22   Enforcement
   
91.23   Disposal other than permitted by special permit
   
91.24   Right of entry
   
91.25   Rebuttable presumption
   
91.26   Remedies
   
91.27   Further regulations
   
91.28   Additional laws and regulations
Tarpaulins
   
91.40   Short title
   
91.41   Tarpaulin required
   
91.42   Exemptions
   
91.43   Official traffic-control devices
Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation
   
91.55   Requirement
   
91.56   Owner responsibility
   
91.57   Notice
 
   
91.99   Penalty
MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the
singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in which
persons or property may be transported on or off public streets or highways,
and including trailers or other items primarily designed to be pulled by a
motor vehicle, and including parts thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, structure or improvement which shall constitute a
threat to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the township.
   OWNER. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 35, passed 2-27-1988)
§ 91.02  MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No more than one currently unregistered and/or uninspected motor
vehicle shall be parked on any property in a residential district and at no
time shall said vehicle be in any state of major disassembly, disrepair or
shall it be in the process of being stripped or dismantled outside of a
building.
   (B)   No more than two currently unregistered and/or uninspected motor
vehicles shall be permitted on any property in any business, commercial or
industrial zone and at no time shall said vehicle be in any state of major
disassembly, or disrepair or shall it be in the process of being stripped or
dismantled.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to maintain a motor vehicle
nuisance upon the open private grounds of such owner or lessee within the
township. A motor vehicle nuisance shall include any motor vehicle which is
unable to move under its own power or has any of the following physical
defects:
      (1)   Broken windshield, mirrors or other glass, with sharp edges;
      (2)   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk or other body parts which could
permit animal harborage;
      (3)   Any body parts with sharp edges including holes resulting from
rust;
      (4)   Missing tires resulting in unsafe suspension of the motor vehicles
as on a jack or blocking;
      (5)   Broken headlamps or tail lamps with sharp edges;
      (6)   Protruding sharp objects from the chassis;
      (7)   Broken vehicle frame and/or motor suspended from the ground in an
unstable manner;
      (8)   Leaking or damaged oil pan or gas tank which could cause fire or
explosion;
      (9)   Exposed battery containing acid;
      (10)   Inoperable locking mechanism for doors or trunk;
      (11)   Open or damaged floor boards including trunk and firewall;
      (12)   Damaged bumpers pulled away from the perimeter of vehicle;
      (13)   Broken grill with protruding edges;
      (14)   Loose or damaged metal trim and clips;
      (15)   Open trunk and open engine hood; and
      (16)   Unlocked doors or open windows which can allow children to enter
the vehicle and then lock themselves inside.
   (D)   It shall also be unlawful for any owner of a motor vehicle to place
such vehicles upon any open private grounds not his or her own as to constitute
a motor vehicle nuisance as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 35, passed 2-27-1988)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply with regard to any vehicle:
   (A)   In an enclosed building;
   (B)   A vehicle on the premises of a junkyard operating pursuant to a
special exception granted by the township; or
   (C)   Equipment actually used for farming purposes on a working farm.
(Ord. 35, passed 2-27-1988)
§ 91.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Township Police Department is hereby charged with the duty of
enforcing the regulations of this subchapter. Furthermore, township police are
hereby empowered to inspect grounds on which motor vehicles are parked to
determine if there is compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. If
noncompliance with the provisions of this subchapter constitutes a nuisance, he
or she shall issue a written notice to be served by personal service or by
registered or certified mail upon the owner or lessee of said premises, or if
the owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting the notice
conspicuously upon the offending vehicle.
   (B)   All owners or lessees shall take corrective action within ten days of
receiving of written notice or posting. Said notice shall specifically state
the cause of the violation and the action necessary to correct the violation.
Citations for violation of this subchapter may only be filed following the
expiration of ten days from the mailing, posting or delivery of such notice.
(Ord. 35, passed 2-27-1988)
HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 91.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS or SUPERVISORS. The elected Supervisors of the
township.
   DISPOSAL. The incineration, depositing, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking, storing or placing of hazardous waste into or on the land or water of
the township.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Includes the following:
         (a)   Acetone, ammonia, benzine, calcium carbine, carbon disulfide,
celluloid, chlorine, hydrochloric acid, hydrocyanic acid, magnesium, nitric
acid and oxides of nitrogen, petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the
like), phosphorus, potassium, sodium, sulfur and sulfur products, pesticides,
polychlorinated biphenyls, radioactive substances; and
         (b)   Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material which,
because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, may:
            1.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality
or morbidity in either an individual or the total population; or
            2.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health, the environment or the economy, when transported or disposed of or
otherwise managed; and
            3.   Any such material as may, from time to time, be identified as
a HAZARDOUS WASTE by federal or state governments and their agencies.
      (2)   The term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall not include:
         (a)   Coal refuse as defined in the Coal Refuse Disposal Control Act
(52 P.S. §§ 30.51 and 30.62);
         (b)   Treatment sludges from coal mine drainage treatment plants,
disposal of which is being carried on pursuant to and in compliance with a
valid permit issued under the Clean Streams Law (35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through
691.1001);
         (c)   Waste from normal farming operations, unless otherwise declared
to be hazardous by federal, state or municipal authority;
         (d)   Storage of gasoline and fuel oil for sale by wholesale and
retail distributors thereof at their places of business in compliance with
applicable federal and state law and regulation; and
         (e)   Solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage generated in the
township, and any mixture of domestic sewage and other wastes generated in the
township that pass through a sewage system to publicly-owned treatment works
for treatment; and household waste generated in the township; provided, such
sewage and waste is disposed of in compliance with applicable law and
regulation.
   NORMAL FARMING OPERATIONS. The customary and generally accepted activities,
practices and procedures that farms adopt, use or engage in year after year in
the production and preparation for market of poultry, livestock and their
products; and in the production, harvesting and preparation for market of
agricultural crops and commodities; provided, that such operations are
conducted in compliance with applicable laws; and provided, that the use or
disposal of these materials will not pollute the air, water or other natural
resources of this township.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association
or other organization or municipality.
   TOWNSHIP ROADS. Those roads over which the township exercises jurisdiction
or the maintenance of which is the responsibility of the township.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.16  DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of hazardous waste within the township is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  TRANSPORTATION.
   The transportation or carrying of hazardous waste over township roads is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of or permit land under his
or her control, to be used for disposal of hazardous waste within the limits of
the township, unless such person holds a special permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19  CARRYING HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport or carry hazardous waste by
any means over the township roads.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20  REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMIT.
   A special permit may be obtained from the Township Supervisors for the
burying of hazardous waste; provided, such person complies with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any person desiring such a special permit shall first submit an
application in writing to the Township Supervisors which contains:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, including in the case of a
business, corporation, partnership or organization, the names and addresses of
the owners, directors and officers of such business organization;
      (2)   Financial statements of the applicant for the preceding five years,
in form and detail acceptable to the Township Supervisors;
      (3)   A detailed statement of the identity, amount and source of the
hazardous waste to be disposed of;
      (4)   Identification of the location of the intended disposal, including
name and address of the owner of such location, and in the event the applicant
is not the owner of such location, copies of all leases and other documents
showing the authority of applicant to use such location;
      (5)   A detailed plan of the location, showing in detail the area to be
used for disposal, and method of disposal, to be prepared by a registered
professional engineer, in such form and detail as reasonably required by the
Township Supervisors, and, in any event, showing a method of disposal which
complies with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (6)   A detailed plan describing the method of transportation of the
hazardous waste to the disposal site;
      (7)   A certification that the applicant has in force public liability
insurance in such amounts and with such companies as may be approved by the
Township Supervisors; and
      (8)   Such other information and such other terms and conditions as the
Board of Supervisors deems necessary or proper to achieve the goals and
purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall be accompanied by written permits, licenses or
approvals in a form satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors from the
Department of Environmental Protection, and any other governmental agency
having jurisdiction, showing that the proposal is approved under the Clean
Streams Law, being 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.; the Surface Mining Conservation
and Reclamation Act, being 52 P.S. §§  1396.1 et seq.; the Air Pollution
Control Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq.; and the Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq., as applicable, and any other
applicable state, federal or local statute or ordinance.
   (C)   No special permit shall be issued unless the applicant first provides
to the Board of Supervisors a bond covering the proposed land affected by such
proposed disposal, payable to the township and conditioned upon compliance by
the applicant and operator with the requirements of this subchapter, and
further conditioned upon the future deposit and containment of such hazardous
waste in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and conditioned
specifically upon the storage and containment of such hazardous waste in
accordance with divisions (E) and (F) below, so that there is absolutely no
possibility that hazardous waste or matter derived from such hazardous waste
will leak or escape from the container and area in which such hazardous waste
is disposed, and that there is no possibility that such hazardous waste will at
any time in the future adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare
and economic and social well-being of the citizens of the township. Such bond
shall be a surety bond, issued by a reputable company authorized to do business
in the commonwealth, to be approved by the township, and such bond shall be in
such amount as the Supervisors deem desirable to effect the purpose and intent
of this subchapter. Liability under such bond shall be for a period of 75 years
after deposit of the waste commences. If the applicant or operator abandons the
disposal facility for which the special permit is required, or if the applicant
or the disposal operations and method do not comply with the requirements of
this subchapter, or upon violation or failure of any of the conditions of such
bond, the Supervisors shall declare the bond forfeited and shall proceed to
enforce and collect the amount of liability forfeited thereon. No special
permit shall be issued for hazardous wastes within the 100-year floodplain as
outlined on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map issued by the Federal Insurance
Administration dated December 27, 1974.
   (D)   An applicant for special permit shall provide to the Township
Supervisors such plans and information as may be required by the Supervisors to
determine that the proposed disposal will be conducted in accordance with this
subchapter and any regulations promulgated by the Township Supervisors pursuant
to this subchapter.
   (E)   The method of proposed disposal of hazardous waste shall be detailed
in the plans and information submitted by an applicant to the Township
Supervisors, and shall ensure that:
      (1)   At a minimum, the hazardous waste shall be buried at a depth of no
less than 50 feet and that such hazardous waste shall be placed in 55 gallon
drums and completely encased and sealed in a layer of lead of no less than one
inch in thickness, which drum and lead encasement shall then be completely
encased in a reinforced concrete vault with walls, top, bottom and sides of a
thickness of no less than five feet each, and that each such encased drum shall
be buried in its own individual concrete vault; and
      (2)   In addition that such further protective containment, liners,
devices and other measures shall be used in the proposed disposal so that there
is absolutely no possibility that hazardous waste or any matter derived from or
connected with such hazardous waste will leak or escape from the container and
area in which such hazardous waste is deposited; that there is absolutely no
possibility that such hazardous waste will at any time in the future adversely
affect the public health, safety and welfare; and that there is absolutely no
possibility that such hazardous waste will at any time in the future adversely
affect the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the township; for
all of which the burden of proof shall be on applicant.
   (F)   An applicant shall be required to dispose of hazardous waste and
utilize such further protective containment, liners, devices and other measures
in the proposed disposal as necessary so that there is absolutely no
possibility that hazardous waste or any matter derived from such hazardous
waste will ever leak or escape from the container in which such hazardous waste
is deposited; so that there is absolutely no possibility that such hazardous
waste will at any time in the future adversely affect the public health, safety
and welfare; and so that there is absolutely no possibility that such hazardous
waste will at any time in the future adversely affect the economic and social
well-being of the citizens of the township.
   (G)   Upon approval of the application, the Board of Supervisors shall issue
a special permit for the deposit of hazardous waste as set forth in the
application and as further conditioned by the township.
   (H)   Failure to comply with the Act of June 22, 1937 (P.L. 1987, No. 394),
known as the Clean Streams Law; the Act of May 31, 1945 (P.L. 1198, No. 418)
known as the Surface Mining Conservation and Reclamation Act; the Act of
January 8, 1960 (1959 P.L. 2119, No. 787) known as the Air Pollution Control
Act; and the Act of November 26, 1978 (P.L. 1375, No. 325) known as the Dam
Safety and Encroachments Act and any other applicable federal, state or local
law, ordinance or regulation shall render the applicant and operator liable to
the sanctions and penalties provided in this subchapter and to the sanctions
and penalties provided in such statutes for violations thereof. Such failure to
comply shall also be cause for revocation of any approval or permit issued by
the township. Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and the
provisions of the statutes hereinabove referred to shall not relieve the
operator of the responsibility for complying with the provisions of all other
applicable statutes.
   (I)   In the event an applicant or applicant’s operators, contractors or
agents fail to comply with any provision of this subchapter or any federal,
state or local ordinance, statute or regulation, of any condition of any permit
issued by the township; or if such applicant or applicant’s operators,
contractors or agents has shown a lack of ability or intention to comply with
this subchapter or any such federal, state or local statute, ordinance,
regulation or any condition of any permit issued by the township, the
Supervisors may deny, suspend, modify or revoke any permit issued hereunder. In
the case of the corporate applicant, operator or contractor, the township may
deny the issuance of a permit if it finds that a principal of the corporation
was the principal of another corporation which has committed past violations of
this subchapter or any such other applicable federal, state or local statute,
ordinance or regulation.
   (J)   Independent contractors and agents who are to operate under any permit
issued hereunder shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter. Such
independent contractors, agents and the applicant and permittee shall be
jointly and severally liable, without regard to fault, for the disposal of such
waste and for violations of this subchapter which occur during the contractors’
or agents’ involvement in the operations.
   (K)   Any permit granted by the township hereunder shall be revocable or
subject to modification or suspension at any time the Township Supervisors
determine that the hazardous waste disposal:
      (1)   Is, or has been, conducted in violation of this subchapter or rules
or regulations adopted pursuant hereto;
      (2)   Is creating a public nuisance;
      (3)   Is creating a potential hazard to the public health, safety,
economy or welfare;
      (4)   Adversely affects the environment;
      (5)   Is being conducted in violation of any terms or conditions of a
permit; and
      (6)   Was conducted pursuant to a permit that was not granted in
accordance with this subchapter or applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter, any rule or regulation of
the Township Supervisors, any applicable federal, state or local statute,
ordinance or regulation, or any term or condition of any permit, shall
constitute a public nuisance. Any person committing such a violation shall be
liable for the costs of abatement of any pollution and any public nuisance
caused by such violation.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Township Supervisors are empowered to issue regulations to carry out the
intent and purpose of this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.23  DISPOSAL OTHER THAN PERMITTED BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   In the event any person disposes of hazardous waste or permits disposal of
hazardous waste on land under his or her control in a manner other than
permitted by a special permit issued in accordance with the provisions of §
91.20, the Supervisors, at their option, may singly or severally proceed as
follows:
   (A)   Commence a summary proceeding to collect the penalties as provided
under §
91.99 for a violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   Order the termination of the unlawful disposal and removal or
abatement of such unlawful disposal, by causing written notice to be sent to
such person, to the owner and any occupant of premises on which unlawful
disposal has taken place, or if the owner or occupant be unknown, by posting
the notice conspicuously upon such premises and to the applicant and permittee,
if a special permit has been issued, at the address given in the application.
Such notice shall be deemed sufficient if sent by regular mail to the last
known address of such person, owner, occupant, applicant or permittee. The
notice shall require the person to whom it is addressed to remove any hazardous
waste from the township, and take such other corrective action as may be
specified in such notice;
   (C)   If any person fails to proceed to complete the corrective action
within the time specified in such notice, the Supervisors may cause such
unlawfully disposed of hazardous waste to be removed from the township and may
cause such other corrective action to be taken as shall appear necessary to the
Township Supervisors. The Supervisors shall, in such event, where necessary,
have the right and power to enter into the offending premises to accomplish the
foregoing;
   (D)   In the event the Township Supervisors shall have expended monies to
remove such waste or take other corrective action as may be deemed necessary,
the Township Supervisors may recover the cost of taking such action in addition
to the costs of proceedings, including reasonable attorney fees, from the
person disposing of the waste, the owner or occupant of the land on which
disposal occurs and any permittee, jointly and severally, by forfeiting
available bonds, by municipal claim proceedings as authorized by the laws of
the commonwealth, or by such other remedy as may be provided by law, at the
election of the Township Supervisors; and
   (E)   In addition, the Township Supervisors may, where deemed appropriate,
institute proceedings in the courts of this commonwealth or elsewhere to compel
the removal of such hazardous waste and to compel the taking of such corrective
action as may be deemed necessary and to seek such other relief as the courts
are empowered to afford.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.24  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Township Supervisors or their agents may enter any building, property,
premises or place where hazardous waste is deposited or disposed of for the
purposes of making such investigation or inspection and taking such samples as
may be necessary to ascertain the compliance or noncompliance by any person
with the provisions of this subchapter, any permit or rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.25  REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION.
   It shall be presumed as a rebutable presumption of law that a person who
disposes of hazardous waste shall be liable without proof of fault, negligence
or causation for all damages, contamination or pollution within 2,500 feet of
the perimeter of the area where hazardous waste activities have been carried
out.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26  REMEDIES.
   The remedies herein provided for the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter, or of any remedy afforded by law, shall now be deemed mutually
exclusive and may be employed simultaneously or consecutively at the discretion
of the Township Supervisors.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.27  FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   Further regulations may be issued from time to time as may be deemed
necessary to effectuate the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
§ 91.28  ADDITIONAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter is in addition to any federal and state laws and regulations
regarding the storage, depositing and accumulating of such refuse material;
and, the most restrictive provisions shall apply, whether federal, state or by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 1-31-1983)
TARPAULINS
§ 91.40  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “The Township of Summerhill Tarpaulin
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 27, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 91.41  TARPAULIN REQUIRED.
   No vehicle carrying inanimate cargo in or upon its bed or cargo area shall
be driven or operated in any manner on any street, road or highway within the
township unless the bed or cargo area of such vehicle is covered or enclosed
with a tarpaulin or other enclosure so as to prevent the escape of any soot,
dust, smoke, ashes or other substances or material emanating from such
inanimate contents, and/or so as to prevent the escape of said contents
themselves.
(Ord. 27, passed 11-15-1982)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42  EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to vehicles operated by any federal, state
or local government or agency thereof engaged in maintaining the public road
system in the township.
(Ord. 27, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 91.43  OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The township shall elect official traffic-control devices upon or at the
entrances to the streets, roads or highways entering the township as may be
most appropriate, pursuant to 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(c).
(Ord. 27, passed 11-15-1982)
GRASS, WEEDS AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 91.55  REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation, owning or occupying any property within the
township shall permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation whatsoever, not
edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to grow or remain upon
such premises so as to exceed a height of six inches or to throw off any
unpleasant or noxious odor or to conceal any filthy deposit or to create or
produce pollen. Any grass, weeds or other vegetation growing upon any premises
in the township in violation of any of the provisions of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness
and comfort of the inhabitants of the township.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-15-1980)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of any premises, as to vacant premises or premises occupied by the
owner, and the occupant thereof, in case of premises occupied by other than the
owner thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation
growing or remaining upon such premises in violation of the provisions of §
91.55.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-15-1980)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57  NOTICE.
   The Board of Supervisors, or any officer or employee of the township
designated thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by
personal service or by United States mail, to the owner or occupant, as the
case may be, of any premises whereon grass, weeds or other vegetation is
growing or remaining in violation of the provisions of §
91.55, directing and requiring such occupant to remove, trim or cut such grass,
weeds or vegetation, so as to conform to the requirements of this subchapter,
within five days after issuance of such notice. In case any person, firm or
corporation shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with such notice, within
the period of time stated therein, the township authorities may remove, trim or
cut such grass, weeds or vegetation, and the cost thereof, together with any
additional penalty authorized by the law, may be collected by the township from
such person, firm or corporation, in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-15-1980)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.04 shall for every such violation, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not less than $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second
offense, $100 for the third offense, and not more than $300 for each offense
thereafter.  Offender will also pay the costs of prosecution, and, in default
of the payment of such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment of not more than
30 days. Upon conviction, the person(s) must abate the stated violation within
seven days. If such abatement is completed, the fine will be reduced by 50%. If
the violation is not abated within the seven-day period to the satisfaction of
the enforcing officer or the Chief of Police, the person(s) shall be required
to pay the full amount of said fine. Each day’s continued violation after seven
days from the original abatement order shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.28, rules or regulations adopted hereto or any term or condition of any
permit shall, upon conviction in a summary proceedings, be subject to a fine or
penalty of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, $100 for the
third offense, and not more than $1,000 for each offense thereafter, plus costs
of prosecution and in default of payment thereof, to imprisonment of not more
than 30 days. Each day during which any violation of §§
91.15 through
91.28 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating any of the
provisions of §§
91.40 through
91.43 shall, upon summary conviction before a District Magistrate having
jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 and costs of
prosecution, and in default of the payment thereof, shall be sentenced to
undergo imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate or fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.55 through
91.57 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 for the
first offense, $50 for the second offense, $100 for the third offense, and not
more than $300 for each offense thereafter, not more than $25 and costs of
prosecution; provided, each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense
and notice to the offender shall not be necessary in order to constitute an
offense.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-15-1980; Ord. 27, passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 28, passed 1-31-
1983; Ord. 35, passed 2-27-1988)
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Insurance Escrow
   
92.01   Use of fire insurance proceeds
   
92.02   Limits of liability
   
92.03   Insurance company rights reserved
   
92.04   Construction
   
92.05   Notification of State Department of Community and Economic Development
Outdoor Burning
   
92.20   Public policy
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   General limitation on burning
   
92.23   Liability
Outdoor Furnaces
   
92.35   Purpose
   
92.36   Definition
   
92.37   Regulations
   
92.38   Enforcement
   
92.39   Grandfather clause
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRE INSURANCE ESCROW
§ 92.01  USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   No insurance company, association of exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the commonwealth shall pay a claim of a named insured for
fire damage to a structure located within the township where the amount
recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies exceeds
$7,500, unless the insurer is furnished by the Treasurer of the township with a
certificate pursuant to 40 P.S. § 638(b) and unless there is compliance with
the procedures set forth in 40 P.S. §§ 638(c) and 638(d).
   (B)   (1)   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property (“municipal claims”), or there are expenses which
the township has incurred as costs for removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Secretary of the township shall immediately render a bill for
such work, if not already done. Upon written request of the named insured
specifying the description of the property, the name and address of the insurer
and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report of the claim, the
Treasurer of the township shall furnish a certificate within 14 days after the
request to the insurer either:
         (a)   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or
         (b)   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
      (2)   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
division (A) above, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of the township
an amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay said sums prior to
making payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of division (C)
below.
   (C)   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to division (B) above or when the Township Treasurer has issued a
certificate described in division (B)(1)(a) above indicating that there are no
municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the insurer shall
pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss agreed
upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60% of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or
structure, the following procedures must be followed.
      (1)   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Township Treasurer, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or
fraction thereof.
      (2)   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the township, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under
the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of
the township from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
If there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a
prorata basis by all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Secretary of the township shall do the following:
         (a)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the township to be
required in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as
required by this subchapter. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the township in
connection with such removal, repair or securing or any proceedings related
thereto;
         (b)   Mail to the named insured at the address received from the
insurer a notice that the proceeds have been received by the township and that
the procedures under this division (C)(3) shall be followed;
         (c)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the township
a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure in which event the Township Secretary shall, if
such estimates deemed by the Township Secretary to be reasonable return to the
insured the amount of the funds transferred to the township in excess of that
amount required to pay the municipal expenses; provided, however, that the
township has not commenced to remove, repair or secure the building or other
structure in which case the township will complete the work;
         (d)   Pay to the Secretary of the township for reimbursement to the
Township General Fund the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the
township;
         (e)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund without interest to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Township Secretary
that the repair, removal or securing of the building or other structure has
been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations of the
township; and
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability
of the township to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this subchapter or to insurance
proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the Township Codes or to
enter into an agreement with the named insured with regard to such other
disposition of the proceeds as the township may deem responsible.
(Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
§ 92.02  LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to make an insurance company,
association or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this
subchapter or to make the township or any public official of the township an
insured under a policy of insurance or to create an obligation to pay
delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
§ 92.03  INSURANCE COMPANY RIGHTS RESERVED.
   An insurance company, associated or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this subchapter for delinquent taxes or structural removal liens
or removal expenses incurred by the township shall have full benefit of such
payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
§ 92.04  CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to
deter the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment
of property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
§ 92.05  NOTIFICATION OF STATE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
   The Secretary of the township shall transmit a certified copy of this
subchapter promptly to the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development.
(Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
OUTDOOR BURNING
§ 92.20  PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is against public policy to permit controlled and unrestricted outdoor
burning. The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent needless public damage to
life and property caused by outdoor fires deliberately or carelessly set and
maintained.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINED FIRE. Any fire contained in an incinerator, fireplace or cooking
grill or other contained enclosure designed for outdoor cooking or a fireproof
container.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Township Police Department.
   FIRE. Any fire set or maintained outside a building.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, organization, association, agency,
firm, estate or corporation and any other legal or community entity.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. Any individual 18 years or older who is not under the
influence of drugs or alcohol or suffering from any other disability which
would impair his or her ability to properly supervise a fire.
   UNCONTAINED FIRE. Any fire not in the definition of contained fire above.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 92.22  GENERAL LIMITATION ON BURNING.
   (A)   Compliance with subchapter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to burn, ignite, incinerate, maintain or
permit to burn any materials whatsoever, of whatever nature, without complying
with this subchapter.
      (2)=   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent firefighting training
by township designated firefighting organizations.
   (B)   Public roads and public properties. No person shall set, start, feed
or permit to burn or maintain any fire upon any of the streets, sidewalks,
alleys or public grounds in the township except where a designated area has
been set aside or reserved for this purpose and an appropriate container has
been provided to contain such fire.
   (C)   Safe distances.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to allow any fire, including cooking, within
an unsafe distance from any building or property line.
      (2)   No fire shall be set, started, fed, permitted to burn or maintained
where such fire may endanger any building or property, except where such
building or property is used by the Fire Department for training purposes.
      (3)   Out-of-doors fires shall be permitted only upon private property
and shall take place at least 20 feet from any building, property line or road
line.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit outdoor cooking
activities, providing that reasonable safeguards are maintained.
      (5)   Cooking grills may be less than 20 feet from a building, providing
that reasonable safeguards are maintained.
   (D)   Control of burning and unattended fires.
      (1)   No fire shall be allowed to burn unattended without a responsible
adult being present at all times and without readily-available fire-
extinguishing apparatus.
      (2)   No fire shall be permitted to burn whenever drought or extreme
weather conditions exist or when a ban on burning has been placed into effect
by the commonwealth or other competent governmental body. The Board of
Supervisors may prohibit any and all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions
or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
      (3)   No fire shall be set that results in uncontrolled burning of
vegetation (field fire).
      (4)   Out-of-door fires shall be confined in a non-combustible container
or in other suitable non-combustible container, except for fires of leaves,
brush and/or natural, untreated wood which need not be confined to or covered
by a non-combustible container.
   (E)   Extinguishing unsafe fires. It is a violation of this subchapter for
any person to allow any fire to burn under adverse weather conditions or
unsupervised, or otherwise in an unsafe manner. Any such fire may be
extinguished by an official of the township-designed fire company or
extinguished immediately upon request of such official.
   (F)   Hours.
      (1)   No person shall burn, or cause to be burned, any paper, boxes,
rubbish, leaves or any other kind of substance, nor shall any person or persons
set or maintain any uncontained fire, or burn or cause to be burned an
uncontained fire of any substance or material of any kind, out-of-doors,
anywhere in the township between sunset and sunrise.
      (2)   Contained fires shall not be permitted to burn or smolder between
sunset and sunrise.
      (3)   Recreational fires using natural, untreated wood and containing a
fuel source of no more than eight cubic feet are permitted at any time so long
as they comply with all other provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Unlawful substances.
      (1)   Burning of construction debris, plastics, byproducts of
manufacturing and processing operations and wastes from commercial operations
is strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit or encourage the
burning of any substance determined by the commonwealth or the United States
Environmental Protection Agency to be a hazardous substance; nor shall any fire
be permitted to burn by any person if such burning is in violation of the Air
Pollution Control Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq., or other legislation of
the commonwealth or the United States of America or other competent body.
      (3)   No garbage or offal matter may be burned at any time either indoors
or out-of-doors.
      (4)   Fires shall be used only to burn readily combustible materials.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23  LIABILITY.
   The township and its agents, officials and representatives, shall not, under
any circumstances, be liable or responsible for damages caused to any person or
property by reason of the provisions of this subchapter, or by reason of the
conduct of any burning activity in compliance with the terms and provisions of
this subchapter. The individual person or party responsible for any such fire
shall bear sole liability for any damages caused as a result thereof.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-1-1999)
OUTDOOR FURNACES
§ 92.35  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish and impose restrictions
upon the construction and operation of outdoor furnaces within the limits of
the township for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the township and its
inhabitants. It is generally recognized that the types of fuel used, and the
scale and duration of the burning by such furnaces create noxious and hazardous
smoke, soot, fumes, odor, air pollution, particles and other products of
combustion that can be detrimental to citizens’ health, and can deprive
neighboring residents of the enjoyment of their property or premises.
(Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 92.36  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR FURNACE. Any equipment, device, apparatus or structure or any part
thereof which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the purpose of
combustion of any type of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system providing heat for an interior space or water source.
(Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 92.37  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 40 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of any other adjacent property owner’s structure
and shall have a chimney stack of at least 20 feet and/or at least two feet
above the roof line of the highest structure within 200 feet, when installed.
Said chimney stack shall also have a spark arrestor installed on top.
   (B)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 20 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of the property line of another property owner.
   (C)   An area of 20 feet around the outdoor furnace structure shall be free
of vegetation, except grass not exceeding four inches in height.
   (D)   No other fuel other than coal, natural wood without additive, wood
pellets without additive and agricultural seeds in their natural state may be
burned. Processed wood products and other non-wood products recyclable
materials, plastics, rubber, paper products, garbage and painted or treated
wood are prohibited.
   (E)   Furnaces are prohibited to burn between May 1 and September 30.
   (F)   Outdoor furnaces which are designed to heat structures 10% greater
than the size of the structure(s) to be heated are not permitted.
   (G)   Outdoor furnaces and associated installation shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Code enforcement officer at any reasonable time to
assure compliance with the terms hereof.
   (H)   Outdoor furnace installation is subject to the permit provisions of
the Building Code ordinances including furnishing the following information:
      (1)   A drawing providing and identifying all of the information
necessary to assure compliance herewith, including property lines, location of
neighboring properties and structures, height of nearby buildings, and the
like;
      (2)   Manufacturer’s specifications for the outdoor furnace; and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable state and federal statutes including
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Underwriter’s Laboratory (UL)
listing.
   (I)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall authorize any installation
that is a public or private nuisance, regardless of compliance herewith.
   (J)   This subchapter shall not be a defense to any civil claims.
(Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38  ENFORCEMENT.
   If non-compliance with the provisions of this subchapter constitutes a
nuisance, or if any condition poses a threat to the health, safety, or welfare
of the public, the Police Department shall issue a written notice to be served
by registered or certified mail upon the owner of said premises, or, if the
owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting the notice conspicuously
upon the offending premises. Said notice shall specify the condition complained
of, and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise rectify the
condition as set forth therein within ten days of mailing or porting of said
notice, and thereafter, to fully comply with the requirements of the notice
within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 92.39  GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to be retroactive and shall not
require the removal of any outdoor furnace in existence within the township at
the effective date of this subchapter. All outdoor furnaces in existence at the
effective date of this subchapter shall have or must erect a flu or chimney in
accordance with the height requirements contained herein. If an outdoor furnace
is more than 50% torn down, damaged, deteriorated, or otherwise reduced to 50%
of its original design, any rebuilding or restoration of said outdoor furnace
shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Fire insurance escrow. Any owner of property, any named insured or
insurer who violates the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.05 or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof shall be
sentenced upon conviction thereof to pay a fine not greater than $1,000 plus
costs and in default of payment of said fine and costs to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day in which an offense shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Sanctions. Any person, whether as a principal or agent, who
violates §§
92.20 through
92.23 or assists or abets its violation, shall upon conviction thereof before
any Magistrate, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $50, nor more than
$500, together with the costs of prosecution, and in default of the payment of
said fine and costs, shall be committed to the County Prison for a period not
exceeding 30 days. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense, for
which a summary conviction may be sought.
      (2)   Equitable and other remedies. No penalty herein shall prevent the
township from enforcing §§
92.20 through
92.23 by equitable, injunctive and other remedies.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
92.35 through
92.39 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not more than
$600, and in default of payment, to undergo imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of §§
92.35 through
92.39 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 60, passed 3-21-2006; Ord. 63, passed - -2006)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
§ 93.01  POLICY.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing, financing of housing or
land to be used for construction of housing, or in the provisions of brokerage
services because of race, color, religion, ancestry, sex, national origin,
familial status (families with children), handicap or disability is prohibited
by Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Federal Fair Housing Law), being
42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, being 43
P.S. §§ 951 et seq. It is the policy of the township to implement programs to
ensure equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, ancestry, sex, national origin, familial status (families with
children), handicap or disability.
   (B)   Within available resources, the township will assist all persons who
feel they have been discriminated against because of race, color, ancestry,
sex, national origin, familial status (families with children), handicap or
disability to seek equity under federal and state laws by filing a complaint
with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission and the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The available resources to assist the township
include the Fair Housing Officer of the county and the redevelopment authority
of the county.
   (C)   The township shall publicize the policy and through this publicity
shall cause owners of real estate, developers and builders to become aware of
their respective responsibilities and rights under the Federal Fair Housing
Law, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and any local laws or ordinances.
(Res. 123, passed 3-19-1996)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CONTRACTORS
      
111.   SOLICITORS
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
CHAPTER 110:  CONTRACTORS
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Intent and purpose
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Registration
   
110.05   Fee
   
110.06   Information to be supplied
   
110.07   Decal
   
110.08   Regulation
   
110.09   Revocation
   
110.10   Appeal
   
110.11   Application
   
110.12   Contractor’s duties
   
110.13   General rules
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Summerhill Township Contractor’s
Registration Ordinance”.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.02  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the public safety and the general welfare of the
citizens of the township by ensuring that all contractors doing business in the
township are aware of the rules and regulations governing the construction,
alterations and/or repair of buildings and structures in the township,
including site preparation, excavation and paving, it is the intent of this
chapter to require the yearly licensing of contractors.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter of persons, animals, chattels or property.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the township,
as the document or certificate may be amended, authorizing the construction of
a specific building or structure or the performance of a specific activity.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, partnership, corporation or any other entity engaged
in the business of constructing, altering or repairing any building or
structure or engaged in the transport and set up of a prefabricated structure
delivered to a site in the township or engaged in site preparation, excavation
or paving for a fee.
   DOING BUSINESS. Engaging in the construction, alteration or repair of any
building or structure in the township for which a building permit is required
under the ordinances of the township or engaging in site preparation,
excavation or paving in the township.
   LAND USE PERMIT.  An official document or certificate issued by the
township, authorizing either the issuance of a building permit or the
construction or performance of a specific activity for which a building permit
is not required according to the Building Code guidelines.
   PREFABRICATED. Construction materials or assembled units fabricated prior to
erection or installation in a building or structure.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form prepared by the Township Board of Supervisors
for obtaining information about the contractor.
   REPEATED VIOLATIONS. More than one infraction of the ordinances of the
township which has not been corrected after due notice has been given by the
Township Police Department.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   SUBCONTRACTOR. A contractor. The term shall not include an employee of a
contractor or subcontractor.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.04  REGISTRATION.
   From an after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for a
contractor or subcontractor doing business in the township to construct, alter
or repair any building or structure, perform site preparation, excavation or
paving, unless the contractor or subcontractor has registered with the township
and has paid the required registration or renewal fee.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  FEE.
   The fee for the registration shall be $50 and all registrations shall be for
the calendar year, or such portion thereof as shall remain after registration.
There shall be no reduction in the fee for registration after the beginning of
any calendar year. The registration shall expire on the December 31 of each
year. Said fee may be changed by the Board of Supervisors by resolution.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.06  INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED.
   The contractor or subcontractor shall supply such information as shall be
required to complete the registration form in §
110.11, as it may be amended from time to time by the Township Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.07  DECAL.
   At the time of registration and payment of the registration/renewal fee, the
contractor or subcontractor shall be issued two decals, which decals shall be
prominently displayed on all vehicles used by the contractor or subcontractor
during the registration year in the township. All decals in excess of two shall
cost the contractor $1 per decal.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.08  REGULATION.
   It shall be the duty of all contractors and subcontractors to comply with
all ordinances and codes relating to the construction, alteration and repair of
all buildings and structures located with the township, and all site
preparation, excavation and paving in the township, and all laws or ordinances
pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged in.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  REVOCATION.
   Any contractor or subcontractor’s registration may be revoked by the
Township Police Department for repeated violations of any ordinances related to
the construction, alterations or repair of any building or structure with the
township, or to site preparation, excavation or paving, or any laws or
ordinances pertaining to or regulating the activities engaged in. Such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed for violating this chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.10  APPEAL.
   Any contractor or subcontractor whose registration has been revoked by the
Township Police Department shall have the right of appeal to the Township
Supervisors pursuant to the procedure outlined in township regulations within
30 days after notice of the revocation.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.11  APPLICATION.
License No. ________
APPLICATION FOR CONTRACTOR LICENSE
SUMMERHILL TOWNSHIP
P.O. BOX 88
114 IRVAN STREET
BEAVERDALE, PA 15921
1.   NAME: _______________________________________________________
   ADDRESS: ___________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________________
   CITY               STATE            ZIP CODE
TELEPHONE # (_____)________________   FAX:___________________________
2.   LICENSE CLASSIFICATION: ( ) GENERAL   ( ) PLUMBING   ( ) ELECTRICAL
   ( ) EXCAVATION   ( ) MASONRY   ( ) MECHANICAL   ( ) OTHER (SPECIFY)
__________________________________________________________________
3.   PLEASE NOTE: IF A PARTNERSHIP, NAME ALL MEMBERS OF THE PARTNERSHIP, IF A
CORPORATION, NAMES THE PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT SECRETARY AND TREASURER.
   NAME            TITLE            RESIDENCE ADDRESS
   __________________   _________________   ______________________
   __________________   _________________   ______________________
   __________________   _________________   ______________________
   __________________   _________________   ______________________
4.   NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: FULL TIME _________   PART TIME ____________
5.   TAX ID. NUMBER:  _________________________________________________
6.   LIABILITY INSURANCE COMPANY NAME: _______________________________
7.   LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY NO: ____________________________________
8.   WORKER’S COMPENSATION INSURER NAME: __________________________
9.   WORKER’S COMPENSATION POLICY NO.: ______________________________
PLEASE NOTE: If you do not have employees, and, therefore, are not required to
carry worker’s compensation insurance, a notarized affidavit stating that you have
no employees must accompany each building permit application.
This application must be accompanied by a registration fee of $50. Checks shall be
made payable to Summerhill Township.
Applicant Signature:
_______________________________________________________________________
Title: _______________________________   Date:____________________________
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE
AMOUNT PAID __________   PAID CHECK# ________   PAID CASH ___________
NO. OF DECALS ISSUED: ________________________________________________
LICENSE (APPROVED (DISAPPROVED) ________________________, 20____.
TOWNSHIP SIGNATURE __________________________________________________
               SUMMERHILL TOWNSHIP SECRETARY
 
 
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 110.12  CONTRACTOR’S DUTIES.
   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
Township Board of Supervisors from instituting appropriate action to restrain
the unlawful construction, alteration or repair of a building or structure or
site preparation, excavation or paving in the township.
(Ord. 68, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 110.13  GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   All contractors performing work within the geographic boundaries of
the municipality are hereby required to either obtain, on behalf of the
property owner, or ascertain that a building permit has already been obtained,
prior to commencing any work for which a permit is required under the code.
   (B)   All contractors performing work within the geographic boundaries of
the municipality for which a building permit is required under the code shall
schedule inspections with the municipality’s designated building permit officer
for the inspection of all work, while that work is accessible for inspection.
   (C)   All contractors responsible for performing work within the geographic
boundaries of the municipality for which a building permit is required under
the code shall apply for, or otherwise obtain, a certificate of occupancy for
work by the duly designated Building Permit Officer.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions of divisions (A) through (C) above
shall be enforceable, by the County Building Code Enforcement Agency or other
party authorized by the municipality, through a citation for violation filed
with the local District Magistrate, in the same manner as a summary offense
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 68, passed 8-18-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any contractor or subcontractor who shall fail to comply with the
registration provisions of this chapter or who violates any other of the
requirements thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $500, and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90
days.
   (B)   Each day that a contractor is in violation shall constitute a separate
offense and be subject to a separate and additional civil penalty.
(Ord. 56, passed 10-15-2002)
CHAPTER 111:  SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Solicitor’s permits
   
111.02   Information
§ 111.01  SOLICITOR’S PERMITS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township will require all persons who wish
to solicit business on a door to door basis within this township to apply for a
permit, which will be issued from the Municipal Office, after it has been
determined that the business being represented is legitimate. The Township
Secretary is hereby authorized to investigate these requests and implement the
required permits.
(Res. 106, passed 6-16-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  INFORMATION.
   The following information must be presented to the Board of Supervisors for
approval of a permit:
____________________________________________________________________
Name (print and sign) also show company name
____________________________________________________________________
Street Name or Box No.
____________________________________________________________________
City, State, Zip Code
The above company has been investigated by the township and has been:
Approved: _____________________________________________________________________
Disapproved:
_____________________________________________________________________
                  _________________________________
                  Authorized Signature
SEAL
 
(Res. passed - -)
CHAPTER 112:  JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Issuance of license
   
112.06   License fee
   
112.07   License limitation
   
112.08   Transfer of license
   
112.09   Transfer fee
   
112.10   Records
   
112.11   Delay in disposal
   
112.12   Regulations
   
112.13   Abatement of nuisances
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “Summerhill Township
Junkyard and Refuse Ordinance”.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Summerhill Township.
   JUNK. Any discarded material or article and shall include, but not be
limited to, scrap metal, two or more scrapped, abandoned or junked motor
vehicles, machinery, equipment, paper, glass, containers and structures. It
shall not include, however, refuse or garbage kept in a proper container, for
the purpose of prompt disposal.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who shall engage in the business of selling, buying,
salvaging and dealing in junk and who maintains and operates a junkyard within
the township.
   JUNKYARD. Any place where any junk as herein defined, is stored, disposed of
or accumulated.
   LICENSE. The permit granted to a person who accumulates, stores or disposes
of junk as herein defined.
   PERSON. Includes any partnership, joint or co-tenancy, association, firm or
corporation.
   TOWNSHIP. Summerhill Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.03  LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer, or maintain a junkyard
without first having a license from the Board for which license a fee in
accordance with the schedule hereinafter set forth shall be paid to the
township, for the use of the township. The license shall be issued for the 12-
month period beginning January 1, and ending December 31, and each license must
be renewed annually on or before January 1 of each year.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The license provided for in this chapter shall be issued by the Board after
written application shall have been made therefor by the person desiring to be
licensed. Such license shall state the name of the person to whom such license
is issued and the premises on which said business is to be conducted, or such
junkyard is to be maintained. Such license shall be posted conspicuously upon
the premises licensed thereunder. The written application for license
hereinabove mentioned shall be accompanied by a form, every question of which
must be answered, which form will be supplied by the Board. The applicant shall
also submit therewith a plot of the premises used or to be used in connection
with such license.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.05  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application by the Board, the Board shall issue a
license, or shall refuse to issue a license, to the person applying therefore
after an examination of the application and taking into consideration the
suitability of the property proposed to be used for the purposes of the
license, the character of the properties located nearby, and the effect of the
proposed use upon the township. In the event the Board shall issue a license,
it may impose upon the license and the person applying therefor such terms and
conditions in addition to the regulations herein contained and adopted pursuant
to this chapter as may be deemed necessary to carry out the spirit and intent
of this chapter.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.06  LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be paid immediately upon the issuance or renewal of a
license. The amount of the license fee shall be $200 per year payable by the
person to whom the license is issued.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.07  LICENSE LIMITATION.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall, by virtue of one license, keep
more than one place of business within the township or maintain more than one
junkyard, for the purpose of buying, selling and dealing in junk. No person
shall engage in business as a junk dealer in any place other than the place
designated upon his or her license, or maintain a junkyard in any place other
than the place designated upon his or her license. No person shall engage in
business as a junk dealer unless he or she is the sole record owner of the
premises being used as a junkyard.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued by the Board shall be transferrable by the licensee to any
other person unless such a transfer is authorized by the Board. Any person
desiring to transfer his or her license shall notify the Board in writing,
which notification shall be accompanied by an application for a license, as
described in §
112.04, by the transferee.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09  TRANSFER FEE.
   In the event the Board shall approve the transfer of a license, the
transferee shall immediately pay to the township a transfer fee of $10.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.10  RECORDS.
   Every person, licensed under this chapter, shall provide and shall
constantly keep a book, in which shall be fairly written down in the English
language at the time of the purchase of any junk, a description of every
article or material purchased or received by him or her, the date and hour of
such purchase, or receipt, and the person from whom such article or material
was purchased or received. This book shall at all times be subject to the
inspection of any official of the township.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11  DELAY IN DISPOSAL.
   Every person, licensed under this chapter, shall keep and retain upon the
licensed premises, for a period of 48 hours after the purchase or receipt
thereof, all junk received or purchased by him or her, and he or she shall not
disturb or reduce the same or alter the original form, shape or condition until
such period of 48 hours shall have elapsed.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12  REGULATIONS.
   Every person licensed under this chapter shall constantly maintain the
licensed premises in accordance with any special provisions imposed by the
Board and in the manner prescribed by this section and any subsequent
regulations adopted by the Board.
   (A)   Such premises shall at all times be maintained so as not to constitute
a nuisance or a menace to the health of the community or of residents nearby or
a place for the breeding of rodents and vermin.
   (B)   No garbage or other organic waste shall be stored in such premises.
   (C)   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be received in such premises as junk,
all gasoline and oil shall be drained and removed therefrom. Gasoline in an
amount not exceeding ten gallons may be stored above ground in said junkyards
provided the same be placed in containers approved by the commonwealth. All
other gasoline which is kept in the premises shall be stored underground, which
underground storage must be approved by the commonwealth.
   (D)   The manner of storage and arrangement of junk and the drainage
facilities of the premises shall be such as to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water upon the premises, and to facilitate access for firefighting
purposes.
   (E)   All junk kept, stored or arranged on the licensed premises shall at
all times be kept, stored and arranged within the junkyard as described in the
application for license, and as limited under division (D) above.
   (F)   A person licensed under this chapter shall not burn more than one
motor vehicle or its equivalent at any one time. No oil, grease, tires,
gasoline or other similar material that might be dangerous or tend to produce
obnoxious smoke or odors shall be burned within a junkyard at any time. Burning
of vehicles must be attended and controlled at all times.
   (G)   The premises to be licensed shall be set back a minimum distance of 50
feet from the right-of- way lines on all streets or roads and a minimum
distance of 25 feet from all other property lines. The area between the setback
line and the right-of-way line and all streets and roads and all other property
lines shall be at all times kept clear and vacant.
   (H)   When the Board shall deem it necessary and desirable, the premises to
be licensed shall, at the setback lines, be enclosed by a fence of type and
style to be determined by the Board, or by evergreen screen plantings, or both.
The Board may set forth the fence and planting requirements at the time of the
issuance of a license or at the time of renewal or transfer of a license.
   (I)   The Police Department of the township shall have the right to enter
upon the premises at any time for the purpose of inspection.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to the remedies provided in §
112.99, any continued violations of this chapter which shall constitute a
nuisance in fact or which shall in the opinion of the Board constitute a
nuisance may be abated by proceeding against the violator in a Court of Equity
for relief.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall
upon conviction thereof, by a summary proceeding, be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $300 and the costs of prosecution, provided that each day’s
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 14, passed 12-16-1989)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Dumping of refuse
   
130.02   Category 4 casino
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DUMPING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person, association, firm or corporation shall keep or suffer to
remain upon his, her or its premises, or on any private property, any garbage
offal carcass, putrid matter, rubbish, refuse, including abandoned or discarded
automobiles, or other offensive unsightly or unwholesome matter, or cast the
same upon any lot or piece of ground within the township or upon the shores or
margin of any stream or body of water, or into any sewer inlet or upon any
sidewalk in the township.
   (B)   No person, association, firm or corporation shall use, or permit to be
used, any place within the township as a public or private dump for the
garbage, refuse, rubbish and the like.
(Ord. 11, passed 2-28-1967)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  CATEGORY 4 CASINO.
   A Category 4 casino is prohibited within the boundaries of the township.
(Res. 236, passed 12-27-2017)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, association, firm or corporation, who or which shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, shall upon conviction thereof be sentenced
to pay a fine of $100 per offense for one to three offenses, $200 per offense
for four to six offenses, and $1,000 per offense for seven offenses and beyond,
and costs of the prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than ten days; provided each day’s
continuance of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 11, passed 2-28-1967)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Disturbing the peace
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk thereof, he:
   (A)   Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent or tumultuous
behavior;
   (B)   Makes unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Uses obscene language, or makes an obscene gesture; or
   (D)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
(18 Pa.C.S.A. § 5503)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Whoever willfully makes, or causes to be made, any loud, boisterous and
unseemingly noise or disturbance to the annoyance of the peaceable residents
nearby or near any public highway and street or alley, whereby the public peace
is broken or disturbed or the traveling public annoyed, is guilty of the
offense of disturbing the peace or disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 8, passed 10-15-1965)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
131.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
131.02, upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding, shall be sentenced to
pay the costs of prosecution and to pay a fine not exceeding $25, and, in
default of the payment thereof, shall be imprisoned for a period of not
exceeding 30 days. All penalties imposed for the violation of §
131.02 shall be paid to the Township Treasurer for the use of the township.
(Ord. 8, passed 10-15-1965)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Curfew
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for children under the age of 18 years to be or
remain in or upon any of the streets, roads, alleys, parks or public places in
the township at night after the hour of 10:00 p.m., unless such child is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having the legal custody of
such child. As a warning, a whistle or siren to be known as a curfew whistle
shall be sounded at 15 minutes before 10:00 p.m. each evening, after which all
such children shall be required at home, or off the streets, roads, alleys,
parks and public places in the township, except as herein provided.
   (B)   It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person
having the legal care or custody of any child of the age above designated to
allow or permit such child, ward or other person under such age, while in such
legal custody, to go or be in or upon any of the streets, roads, alleys, parks
or public places in said township after the time prohibited in division (A)
above except as herein provided.
   (C)   Children violating this section more than three times shall be
reported to a society or organization whose purpose it is to take charge of
incorrigibles and delinquents, and proceedings be taken in the Juvenile Court
for their permanent welfare, and like procedure shall in cases where the arrest
of the parent, guardian or legal custodian be effective, or where for any other
reason the provisions of division (A) above cannot be made effective by fines
and penalties imposed thereunder.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department  about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-21-1954)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   If any parent, guardian or person having the legal custody of such child
shall allow him or her to be on the streets, roads, alleys or public places in
violation of §
132.01(A), said parent, guardian or person having the legal custody of said
child so offending, shall upon conviction thereof before any Justice of the
Peace be sentenced to pay a fine of $100 for the first offense, $200 for the
second offense, $300 for the third offense, plus costs of prosecution. The
fourth offense and beyond the fine would exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-21-1954; Res. 3-10/04/2011, passed 10-4-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING
      
151.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
      
152.   FLOODS
      
153.   WIND TURBINES
      
154.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
155.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Setbacks from the center of the right-of-way
   
150.02   New developments
   
150.03   Regional Planning Commission
Uniform Construction Code
   
150.15   Adopting the Uniform Construction Code; implementation and enforcement
   
150.16   County Building Code Enforcement Agency
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.30   Investigation
   
150.31   Notice
   
150.32   Service of notice
   
150.33   Failure to repair or remove
   
150.34   Township to repair or remove
Building
   
150.45   Statement of intent
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Application procedure
   
150.48   Issuance of permit
   
150.49   Permit changes
   
150.50   Placards
   
150.51   Start of construction
   
150.52   Inspection and revocation
   
150.53   Fees
   
150.54   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  SETBACKS FROM THE CENTER OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   No structure, dwelling or building shall be erected, placed or
moved to within 40 feet of the right-of-way centerline of any existing township
road.
      (2)   No structure, dwelling or building shall be erected, placed or
moved within 20 feet of the right-of-way of any existing public road.
      (3)   No individual sewage treatment system shall be constructed within
15 feet of the right-of- way line of any existing township road or public road.
      (4)   No structure, dwelling or building shall be erected, placed or
moved within two feet of the existing property boundaries on any of the
remaining sides of the property.
      (5)   Any buildings, trailers or other structures constructed or moved
within the township shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting way in
accordance with this section provided that this restriction shall not apply to
additions to buildings already built on old foundations or for any structure
built which is not any closer to the centerline of the abutting way, other than
buildings built before December 3, 2012 along the abutting way.
      (6)   The Township Supervisors shall determine the minimal allowable
setback for all buildings, trailers or other structures in the township if such
buildings, trailers or structures are to be less than 40 feet from the
centerline of the abutting road. In no event shall a setback be less than 25
feet from the centerline of the abutting road.
      (7)   The planting of shrubs, trees and plants shall be no less than two
feet from property boundaries.
      (8)   Variances may be granted by the Township Supervisors on an
individual property basis.
   (B)   Right to access. All employees of the County Land and Resource
Management Office, Highway Department, members of the County Board of
Commissioners, Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment and the township in the
performance of their duties shall have free access to all lands within 40 feet
of the right-of-way of any existing township road.
(Ord. 74, passed 2-5-2013)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   New development has a substantial impact on municipal facilities, such
as transportation, sewer and water systems.
   (B)   It is unfair to place the entire burden of these costs, which are
necessitated by new development, on the township’s residents through higher
taxes.
   (C)   Impact fees represent an equitable way of sharing these costs between
new development and the township’s residents.
   (D)   The township supports the passage of legislation to authorize
municipalities to impose fair and equitable impact fees on new development to
pay for the costs of the infrastructure improvements needed to serve that
development and that such legislation include the following provisions:
      (1)   The ability for municipalities and developers to continue to
negotiate in good faith for off- site improvements;
      (2)   Protection for those municipalities that have existing impact fee
ordinances by granting them one year which to bring their regulations into
conformance with the new law;
      (3)   The authority to use impact fees to pay for the extensive
administrative costs a township must incur in order to charge impact fees;
      (4)   The flexibility for a municipality to establish the boundaries of
each transportation service area in which impact fees will be levied;
      (5)   The ability to collect impact fees for up to one year from
developers who apply for subdivision approval while the impact fee regulations
are in the development stages; and
      (6)   The discretion to appoint members to the impact fee advisory
committee who represent a variety of factions within the municipality, instead
of loading the membership up with individuals who represent the special
interests of the building and real estate industries.
(Res. 101, passed 8-24-1990)
§ 150.03  REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The township having been informed by representatives of the County Planning
Commission as to the formation of a Regional Planning Commission in its area
and pursuant to the Regional Planning Law, resolves as follows.
   (A)   The township is authorized and directed to join and associate together
with Summerhill Borough, Croyle Township, South Fork Borough, Adams Township
and Ehrenfeld Borough in the creation of a Regional Planning Committee to be
known as the Forest Hills Regional Planning Commission.
   (B)   The township will enter into an agreement with the above
municipalities for the creation of a Regional Planning Commission.
   (C)   The township shall have the authority to appropriate funds for the
purpose of contributing to the operation of a Regional Planning Commission.
   (D)   The township will establish a membership in and support a Regional
Planning Commission.
(Res. passed - -)
UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.15  ADOPTING THE UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE; IMPLEMENTATION AND
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This municipality hereby elects to administer and enforce the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, as
amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401
through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the municipal building code of this municipality.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the Code within this municipality is
hereby authorized and shall be undertaken in any of the following ways as
determined by the governing body of this municipality from time to time by
resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the municipality to serve as
the Municipal Code Official to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more Construction Code Officials or
third party agencies to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an intermunicipal agreement;
and
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of this municipality.
   (D)   Fees assessable by the municipality or joint municipal operation for
the administration and enforcement undertaken pursuant to this section and the
Code shall be established by the governing body by resolution from time to
time.
(Ord. 59, passed 6-15-2004)
§ 150.16  COUNTY BUILDING CODE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board of Supervisors of the township finds it desirable
to enact this section to:
      (1)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
township; and
      (2)   Create a multi-municipal local agency for the administration of the
Uniform Construction Code (Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq.) and its
regulations promulgated thereunder (34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 et seq.), as
amended or may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Grant of power. This section is adopted pursuant to the powers granted
in:
      (1)   Act of December 19, 1996, P.L. 1158, No. 177, commonly known as the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Law, governing intergovernmental cooperation
agreements within the commonwealth (53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq.) as amended or
as may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Act 45 of 1999, the Uniform Construction Code (35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
et seq.) and its regulations (34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 et seq.) as amended or
may be amended from time to time; and
      (3)   Pennsylvania Local Agency Law (2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 551 and 751) as
amended or as may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Creation of County Building Code Enforcement Agency. The governing
body hereby:
      (1)   Creates, constitutes and establishes the County Building Code
Enforcement Agency for the purposes described above;
      (2)   As soon as possible, but not later than 30 days after the adoption
of this section, every member shall, by action of its governing body, appoint a
representative to the County Building Code Program Committee. Such Program
Committee member shall be a member of the governing body of the member
municipality;
      (3)   Conveys to the County Building Code Enforcement Agency, through its
officers/Program Committee, employees, servants and agents the authority to act
on behalf of the governing body relative to the administration and enforcement
of all aspects of the Uniform Construction Code and regulations promulgated
thereunder;
      (4)   Directs the Program Committee to, at all times, act in a manner
consistent with said Act and regulations and the additional provisions of this
section;
      (5)   Directs the Program Committee to establish and, further, pledges to
pay in a timely manner, initial and annual membership fees, together with
prorata or equal share of costs of the salary and benefit package of the Code
Official(s) and other employees as to generally acceptable office
administration and expenses. Directs the payment of other costs of
administering the Uniform Construction Code within the municipality, including,
but not limited to, the enactment, amendment and updating of ordinances and
prosecution costs for violations of ordinances; and
      (6)   Authorizes the Program Committee to acquire, manage, license and/or
dispose of real and/or personal property for the necessary operation of the
Agency.
   (D)   Responsibilities of participating municipalities. The following
activities/actions are the sole responsibility of the member municipalities:
      (1)   Drafting and enacting an ordinance that authorizes and/or ratifies
the municipality’s participation in the County Building Code Enforcement Agency
and the entering into agreement(s) in accordance with the requirements of the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Law/Act;
      (2)   Adopting and amending the municipality’s existing fee resolution
providing for identical fees to be imposed for the issuance of building permits
and other permits required under the Codes to be enforced as a part of the
County Building Code Enforcement Agency;
      (3)   Provide adequate insurance coverage for all aspects of the Program
to include errors and omissions insurance and general liability insurance for
actions of the Code Official(s) and the Program Committee;
      (4)   In the event a third-party agency or individual is retained for
code enforcement services, to obtain verification of liability insurance,
errors and omissions insurance and worker’s compensation insurance in such
amount(s) as determined by the Program Committee, with proper evidence of
certifications of insurance being provided on an annual basis or such other
period of time as determined by the Program Committee; and
      (5)   Eliminate the position of, or modify the responsibilities of, any
existing municipal employee so as to eliminate conflicts and/or overlaps with
the responsibilities of the Code Official(s).
   (E)   Responsibilities of Program Committee. The following activities are
the responsibility of the Program Committee:
      (1)   Prepare and adopt by-laws that:
         (a)   Define the method by which (future) Committee representatives
will be appointed;
         (b)   Set forth the method by which the Committee will conduct
business;
         (c)   Establish a quorum for the conduct of business;
         (d)   Establish meeting times and dates;
         (e)   Define the manner in which vacancies will be filled;
         (f)   Create any necessary subcommittees;
         (g)   Establish fees for the various services to be performed; and
         (h)   Establish a Board of Appeals in accordance with the Act 45 of
1999 and its regulations.
      (2)   Prepare and submit an annual budget;
      (3)   Prepare and submit annual reports to participating municipalities;
      (4)   Prepare and submit, on behalf of the member municipalities,
applications for grants-in-aid or as to the securing of other necessary
financial assistance and/or loans necessary for the operation of the Agency;
      (5)   Recruiting and hiring of the Code Official(s) and other employees
of the Agency and directing their/its responsibilities and duties;
      (6)   Establishment of the salary and benefit package for the Code
Official(s) and other employees of the Agency;
      (7)   Evaluation of the performance of the Code Official(s) within the
first six mouths and annually thereafter;
      (8)   Review of ordinances of each municipality with suggestions for the
enactment of new ordinances to be administered by the County Building Code
Enforcement Agency;
      (9)   Resolution of any problems or concerns between municipalities and
the formulation of policy-oriented decisions;
      (10)   Create an employees’ manual containing job descriptions and
qualifications for employment; and
      (11)   Secure by contract, or other arrangement, legal counsel and the
services of other professions, as may be necessary or desirable to advance the
work of the Committee.
   (F)   Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement. Each member municipality
shall enter into an intermunicipal agreement in the form as attached to Ord. 70
as Exhibit A, as if set out in full herein, and any supplements and/or
amendments thereto; or enter into such other intergovernmental cooperation
agreement(s) which, from time to time may be approved by and submitted to the
member municipalities by the Program Committee, Each member municipality agrees
to abide by and to be legally bound by such intergovernmental agreement(s), and
any intergovernmental agreement(s) entered into as of the date of this
section’s adoption and/or amendments/supplements relative thereto. This section
ratifies and amends any intergovernmental agreement entered into, to the extent
inconsistent herewith, and allows for the adoption (if need be) of a subsequent
intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
   (G)   Term of participation, new members.
      (1)   The participation in the approved Building Codes Agency shall begin
on the effective date of this section.
      (2)   After the expiration of the aforesaid five-year period,
participation shall continue; such participation shall continue on a year to
year basis unless 90 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, the
municipality notifies the Agency, in writing, of its intent to repeal this
section.
      (3)   Additional, municipalities may become a member of the Agency upon
obtaining the consent of the Program Committee and thereafter enacting this
section in its entirety.
      (4)   In the event that it becomes necessary to change this section in
whole or in part, no changes shall become effective and no new or altered
obligation or duty shall be placed upon the Program Committee and/or Agency,
and no change in the term of this section shall become effective until such
time as every participating municipality shall have adopted an identical
amendatory ordinance or duly adopted resolution.
(Ord. 70, passed 8-3-2004)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.30  INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it shall be reported to the Township Secretary that any structure,
completed or in process of construction, or any portion thereof, is in a
dangerous condition, the Township Secretary shall immediately cause an
investigation and examination to be made of such structure. If such
investigation or examination indicates such structure to be dangerous in any
respect, the Secretary shall report in writing to the Chief of Police,
specifying the exact condition of such structure, setting forth in such report
whether and in what respect he or she considers such structure to be dangerous,
and, if so, whether such structure is capable of being properly repaired or
whether it should be removed as a dangerous structure.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976)
§ 150.31  NOTICE.
   If any structure is reported by the Township Secretary, as provided in §
150.30, to be in a dangerous condition, the Chief of Police shall forthwith
cause written notice to be served upon the owner of such structure. Such notice
shall require the owner of such structure to commence the repair or removal of
such building within ten days of such notice and to complete such repair or
removal within 30 days thereof; provided, in any case where the notice
prescribes the repair of any structure, the owner thereof shall have the option
to remove such structure instead of making the repairs thereto, within the said
time limit.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976)
§ 150.32  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice required by §
150.31 shall be served personally upon the owner of a structure, if such owner
resides in the township, or upon the agent of such owner, if such agent has a
residence or place of business within the township. If neither the owner nor
the agent thereof can be served within the township as hereby provided, such
notice shall be sent to the owner of such structure by registered mail, at the
last known address thereof.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976)
§ 150.33  FAILURE TO REPAIR OR REMOVE.
   If the owner of any dangerous structure, to whom or which a notice to repair
or remove such structure shall be sent under the provisions of this subchapter,
fails to commence or to complete such repair or removal within the time limit
prescribed by such notice, he or she shall be guilty of a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34  TOWNSHIP TO REPAIR OR REMOVE.
   If the owner of any dangerous structure, to whom or which a notice to repair
or to remove such structure shall be sent under the provisions of this
subchapter, fails to commence or to complete such repair or removal within the
time limit prescribed by such notice, the Chief of Police shall be empowered to
cause such work of repair or removal to be commenced and/or completed by the
township, and the cost and expense thereof, with a penalty of 10% shall be
collected from the owner of such structure in the manner provided by law;
provided, the recovery of such cost and expense, together with the penalty, may
be in addition to the penalty imposed as provided in §
150.33.
(Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976)
BUILDING
§ 150.45  STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, the construction,
reconstruction, enlargement, alteration or relocation of any building or
structure unless an approved building permit has been obtained from the
Municipal Building Permit Officer.
   (B)   A land use permit is required for all building, repairs to existing
buildings or structures, or additional of pre-built structures, as noted under
STRUCTURES in §
150.46.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all mobile homes and trailers to be used
for human habitation.
   PERSON. Any person, persons, partnership, business or corporation.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form anything constructed or
erected on the ground or attached to the ground, including, but not limited to,
buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, mobile homes, carports, porches,
driveways, swimming pools and other similar items.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.47  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a land use permit and/or a building permit can be
obtained from the Township Secretary during regular office hours or from the
approved Building Codes Enforcement Agency.
   (B)   Such application shall contain at least the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location;
      (5)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost; and
      (6)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.48  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Building Permit Officer shall issue a building permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed construction will be in conformance with all
applicable requirements and regulations.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.49  PERMIT CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a building permit by the Building Permit Officer, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent or approval of the Building Permit Officer.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.50  PLACARDS.
   In addition to the building permit, the Building Permit Officer shall issue
a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issuance and be signed by the Building Permit Officer.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.51  START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Work on the proposed construction shall begin within six months after the
date of issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Building Permit Officer.
Construction shall be considered to have started with the first placement of
permanent construction of the site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings or
any work beyond the stage of excavation. For a structure without a basement or
poured footings, the start of construction includes the first permanent framing
or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its pilings or foundation,
or the affixing of any prefabricated structure or mobile home to its permanent
site. Permanent construction does not include: land preparation, land clearing,
grading or filling; excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations;
erection of temporary forms; the installation of piling under proposed
subsurface footings; or the installation of sewer, gas and water pipes, or
electric or other service lines from the street.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.52  INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
   During the construction period, the Building Permit Officer or other
authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. In the event
the Building Permit Officer discovers that the work does not comply with the
permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances, or that there has
been a false statement or misrepresentation by the applicant, the Building
Permit Officer shall revoke the building permit and report such fact to the
Board of Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53  FEES.
   Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the Building Code agency, based on the estimated cost of the proposed
construction as determined by the Building Permit Officer and will be assessed
rates according to the fee schedule of the approved Building Codes Enforcement
Agency.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.54  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the Building Permit Officer’s estimate of the cost
of the proposed construction may appeal to the Board of Supervisors. Such
appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days after the determination by the
Building Permit Officer. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Board of Supervisors
shall set a time and place not less than ten nor more than 30 days for the
purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing of
the appeal shall be given to all parties at which time they may appear and be
heard. The determination of the estimated cost by the Board of Supervisors
shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §
150.01 shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
      (2)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of §
150.01, in addition to any penalties imposed under division (B)(1) above, the
Township Board of Supervisors, or any member thereof, or any taxpayer or
resident of this township may institute appropriate action or proceedings to
enjoin, prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violation or any threatened
violation.
   (C)   If the owner of any dangerous structure fails to remove or repair such
structure, the owner shall be guilty of a violation of §§
150.30 through
150.34, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $100 and costs of prosecution; provided, each day’s continuance of a
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of §§
150.45 through
150.54 or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice, order or direction of
the Building Permit Officer or any other authorized employee of the
municipality shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall pay a
fine to the township, of not less than $75 and not more than $500, plus costs
of prosecution. In default of such payment, such person shall be imprisoned in
County Prison for a period not to exceed ten days. Each day during which any
violation of §§
150.45 through
150.54 continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above
penalties all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity
for the proper enforcement of §§
150.45 through
150.54. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, §§
150.45 through
150.54 shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations and noncompliances within a reasonable time. Any structure or
building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated, in
noncompliance with §§
150.45 through
150.54 may be declared by the Board of Supervisors to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-28-1975; Ord. 24, passed 11-30-1976; Ord. 74, passed 2-5-
2013)
CHAPTER 151: TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Trailer parks prohibited
   
151.03   Permit required for mobile home parks
   
151.04   Application for permit for mobile home park and application for permit
for extension of area or increase in the number of homes in an existing mobile
home park
   
151.05   Public hearings
   
151.06   Regulating the placing and keeping of individual mobile homes
   
151.07   Moving trailers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK. The area, at the date this chapter becomes
effective, on which mobile homes are parked and occupied; or on which sanitary
facilities, roads and other facilities, have already been installed to
accommodate other mobile homes intended for dwellings.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a permit has been issued hereunder to operate
and maintain a mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME. A unit similar to a trailer coach but which is equipped with
running water, bath facilities, flush toilet and appropriate sanitary
utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Privately owned land upon which two or more mobile homes
are or are intended to be parked and occupied as dwellings.
   OFFICER. The Township Supervisors, or their designated representative.
   PERSONS. Include individuals, partnerships, corporations, owners, lessees,
licensees and the agents of each of them.
   TRAILER. A trailer coach not equipped with running water, bath facilities,
flush toilet and appropriate sanitary connections.
   TRAILER PARK. Privately owned land upon which any trailer is intended to be
parked and occupied as a dwelling.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.02  TRAILER PARKS PROHIBITED.
   No persons shall maintain or operate a trailer park in the township. No
occupied trailer shall be permitted in a mobile home park for a period
exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate a mobile home park or extend the
area of an existing mobile home park or license the number of mobile homes in
an existing mobile home park in the township to an area or number greater than
that provided for in the original application and permit without first having
obtained a permit therefor from the officer pursuant hereto.
   (B)   The regulations shall apply forthwith to new mobile home parks, to any
extension of an existing mobile home park and to any increase in the number of
mobile homes in an existing mobile home park; provided, however, that the
officer may, upon application, grant such extensions of time or waive such
requirements as may in his or her judgment be required by the specific
circumstances where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the
provisions of the chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.
   (C)   The regulations shall not apply to existing mobile home parks.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR MOBILE HOME PARK AND APPLICATION FOR
PERMIT FOR EXTENSION OF AREA OR INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF HOMES IN AN EXISTING
MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   Application for permit hereunder shall be made to the Township
Secretary in writing.
   (B)   Such application shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant; and name and address of real party
in interest if other than the applicant;
      (2)   A plot plan showing the site of the mobile home park, roads,
location, size, shape area increases, number of mobile homes, location of
sanitary provisions and names of abutting property owners, according to the
Assessor’s records. All final plans or maps shall be of overall size not larger
than 25 inches by 37 inches, including border. The plan shall be filed with the
Township Secretary and shall not be accepted for recording until signed as
accepted by the office;
      (3)   Proof of ownership, option or valid lease; and
      (4)   A fee of $25 shall accompany each application for a permit.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.05  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Township Supervisors may hold a public hearing regarding any application
for a mobile home park permit, if the specific circumstances require such
action.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.06  REGULATING THE PLACING AND KEEPING OF INDIVIDUAL MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant or legal custodian of any
lot or piece of ground in the township aforesaid to keep or permit to be kept
any mobile home, occupied or intended to be occupied in that location, upon any
lot or piece of ground owned or leased by him or her or over which he or she
has legal custody, other than a mobile home park, for a period exceeding 30
days without first obtaining a permit and paying an inspection fee herein
prescribed. Application for permit shall be made to the Township Secretary.
   (B)   An inspection fee of $350 shall be charged for each mobile home to
defray the expense of inspecting the sanitary facilities and for guaranteeing
that all requirements of this chapter are met.
   (C)   No permit for keeping or permitting to be kept a mobile home on an
outside authorized mobile home park shall be granted unless the application
shows the street address of the proposed location, the name of the mobile home
occupants and a description of the proposed lot of ground, to be occupied by
the mobile home.
   (D)   Each mobile home, whether in a park or on an individual lot, shall
conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Any mobile home lot shall have a minimum of 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   All mobile homes must be hooked up to an approved septic tank with
a minimum capacity in accordance with state regulations as noted.  Septic tank
sizing is based on the number of bedrooms, not by number of persons occupying
the structure and it is the same per home or trailer:
         (a)   Three-bedroom structure:  900-gallon minimum septic tank size
however not available to purchase, 1000-gallon required;
         (b)   Four-bedroom structure: 1,250 gallon minimum septic tank size;
or
         (c)   Five-bedroom structure: 1,400 gallon minimum septic tank size
however no available to purchase, 1,500-gallon required.
      (3)   Each mobile home shall have appropriate and separate connections or
intakes necessary to connect any mobile home and its plumbing facilities to the
septic tank system.
      (4)   Each mobile home shall have its own separate electric connections.
      (5)   Each mobile home shall have an independent water supply of its own
or be connected to a public or private water system.
      (6)   Each mobile home shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities
meeting the minimum requirements of the state and to be approved by the
Township Supervisors.
      (7)   Each mobile home shall be located to conform to existing building
location lines or, if non-existing, shall be set back 60 feet from the nearest
roadway.
      (8)   Each mobile home shall be located on its lot so that the centerline
of the mobile home (from front to back) shall be parallel with the centerline
of the nearest roadway.
   (E)   Each mobile home owner, tenant or legal custodian of the lot or piece
of ground to be occupied, shall make a signed statement certifying that the
water supply, garbage and refuse disposal and sanitary facilities, duly
approved by the Township Supervisors, are installed and will be available at
all times to be mobile home occupants, and such other pertinent information as
may be required.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to an individual mobile home located on
the site in the township prior to the effective date of this chapter but shall
apply to said mobile home if it is moved to another site or exchanged for
another mobile home after this chapter becomes effective.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)  Penalty, see §
151.99
Statutory reference:
   Standards for septic tanks, see 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73
§ 151.07  MOVING TRAILERS.
   No trailer shall be moved into the township and used as a permanent
residence. A trailer can be placed on private property for storage but must
meet parking regulations and setback regulations.
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or assist in the violation of any of the
requirements of this chapter shall upon conviction before any Justice of the
Peace in the township be fined not more than $50 for each offense; and the
permit prescribed hereunder may be suspended or revoked. Every day’s violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-20-2001)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODS
Section
Statutory Authorization
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
General Provisions
   
152.015   Intent
   
152.016   Applicability
   
152.017   Abrogation and greater restriction
   
152.018   Severability
   
152.019   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.030   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.031   Permits required
   
152.032   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.033   Application procedures and requirements
   
152.034   Review by County Conservation District
   
152.035   Review of application by others
   
152.036   Changes
   
152.037   Placards
   
152.038   Start of construction
   
152.039   Enforcement; notices
   
152.040   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
152.055   Identification
   
152.056   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
152.057   Changes in identification of area
   
152.058   Boundary disputes
Technical Provisions
   
152.070   General
   
152.071   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
152.072   Design and construction standards
   
152.073   Development which may endanger human life
   
152.074   Special requirements for subdivisions
   
152.075   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
152.076   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
152.090   General
   
152.091   Application requirements for special permits
   
152.092   Application review procedures
   
152.093   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
152.105   Existing structures
   
152.106   Improvements
Variances
   
152.120   General
   
152.121   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
152.135   General
   
152.136   Specific definitions
Flood Insurance Program
   
152.150   Compliance with § 1910.3a of the Flood Insurance Program regulations
   
152.151   Flood Insurance Program
 
   
152.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
§ 152.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has, by the passage of the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act of 1978, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of the township does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.015  INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.016  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the township unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.017  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.018  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.019  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside any identified floodplain areas or that land uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.030  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Building Permit Officer, within the County Building Code Enforcement
Office, is hereby appointed to administer and enforce this chapter and is
referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.031  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the township.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.032  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., as amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (32
P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq., as amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (35 P.S.
§§ 693.1 et seq.); and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. 1344. No
permit shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
development/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of
repairs to the subject building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   (D)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (E)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour, to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated
with the requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.033  APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the township.
   (B)   Such application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location including address;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and/or located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other access
ways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood elevation;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within a special floodplain area (See § 152.056(B)) when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point;
         (d)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood elevation; and
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (e)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
152.072(F) and
152.073, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
152.072(F) and
152.073 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained
on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
152.073 during a base flood.
         (f)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (g)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
      (5)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the municipality, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administration.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.034  REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.035  REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.036  CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.037  PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.038  START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months
after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The
ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and tilling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.039  ENFORCEMENT; NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.040  APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Board.
      (2)   Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days after the
decision, determination or action of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Board shall set a time and place,
within not less than ten or not more than 30 days, for the purpose of
considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will
be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek relief
therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state including
the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.055  IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be any areas of township,
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated June 19,
2012 and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most
recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by township and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.056  DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas/districts.
   (A)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FTS prepared by FEMA and for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided in the FIS.
   (B)   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state or other acceptable source shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the
elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the boundary
of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction site.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like, shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the municipality.
   (C)   Shallow flooding area:
      (1)   Description. The areas identified as Zones AO and AH in the FIS.
These areas are subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
where average depths are between one and three feet; and
      (2)   Special requirements. Establish drainage paths to guide floodwaters
around and away from structures on slopes.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.057  CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Board where
studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents the
need for such revision. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than
six months after the date such information becomes available; a community shall
notify FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.058  BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Township Planning Commission and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Board. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.070  GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the State Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   (B)   (1)   Technical or scientific data shall be submitted by the applicant
to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon as practicable but within
six months of any new construction, development or other activity resulting in
changes in the BFE.
      (2)   The situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) are required are:
         (a)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood
elevation; or
         (b)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited
to, installing culverts and bridges).
   (C)   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall be
permitted that would cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation.
   (E)   Within any AE Area/District, no new construction or development shall
be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any
point.
   (F)   Within any identified floodplain area, no new construction or
development shall be located within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a permit is obtained from the Department
of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.071  ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation in accordance with §
152.056(B).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, Al-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation in accordance with §
152.056(B).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed on accordance with
the WI or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Floodproofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (5)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term FULLY
ENCLOSED SPACE also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of flood waters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.072  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
152.073, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing
material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from
the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended and
not limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections and divisions of this chapter, to the extent that they are more
restrictive and/or supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE 101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073  DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, being
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of
Community and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or
substantially improved structure shall be subject to the provisions of this
section, in addition to all other applicable provisions, which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances.
   (B)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Ammonia;
      (3)   Benzene;
      (4)   Calcium carbide;
      (5)   Carbon disulfide;
      (6)   Celluloid;
      (7)   Chlorine;
      (8)   Hydrochloric acid;
      (9)   Hydrocyanic acid;
      (10)   Magnesium;
      (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
      (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
      (13)   Phosphorus;
      (14)   Potassium;
      (15)   Sodium;
      (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
      (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides);
and
      (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (C)   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A) above, shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Within any floodplain area, any new or substantially improved
structure of the kind described in division (A) above shall be prohibited
within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any
watercourse.
   (E)   (1)   Where permitted within any floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved structure of the kind described in division (A) above
shall be:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at the regulatory flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood elevation.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Floodproofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas
where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.075  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any FW (Floodway Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Within approximate floodplain or special floodplain area, manufactured
homes shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   (C)   Where permitted within any floodplain area, all manufactured homes and
any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or
above the regulatory flood elevation; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   (D)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall
apply and 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405.
   (E)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
152.075.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 152.090  GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following
activities shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area unless a
special permit has been issued by the township:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other access ways and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation elevations, and information
concerning the flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the base
flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
access ways and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
access ways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.092  APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the township, the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
152.030 through
152.040.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Township Planning Commission and Township Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the township shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the township decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the township approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the township shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the township.
   (F)   If the township does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the township and the applicant,
in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the township shall not
issue the special permit.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.093  SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.070 through
152.076, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
152.070 through
152.076 or in any other code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood elevation without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure
itself, or to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to the
regulatory flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property. All hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others
of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods
used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies,
analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
allow a thorough technical review by the township and the Department of
Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.105  EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
152.106 shall apply.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.106  IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation of the
base flood elevation.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any special floodplain area that would, together with all other existing
and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
   (E)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
   (F)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.999
VARIANCES
§ 152.120  GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
township may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.121  VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the township in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
152.040 and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any special floodplain area that would, together with all
other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE than one foot at
any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (§§
152.090 through
152.093) or to development which may endanger human life (§
152.073).
      (4)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the township shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (7)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense; nor
            2.   Create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
      (8)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the township. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the annual
1% chance of flooding.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.135  GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 152.136  SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM, September 4, 1985. EXISTING
STRUCTURE may also be referred to as existing construction.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exit way requirements; nor shall MINOR REPAIRS include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after June 19, 2012 and includes any subsequent improvements thereto. Any
construction started after September 4, 1985 and before June 19, 2012 is
subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided
the start of construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or after the community’s initial Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) dated September 4, 1985, and, as such, would be required to be
compliant with the regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred before the community’s initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) dated September 4, 1985, and, as such, would not be required to be
compliant with the regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year, It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the SUBDIVISION by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” or “repetitive
loss” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (2)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT as defined in this chapter, must comply
with all chapter requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
§ 152.150  COMPLIANCE WITH § 1910.3A OF THE FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
REGULATIONS.
   Beginning December 4, 1975, the Township Board of Supervisors shall do the
following:
   (A)   Require land use and building permits for all proposed construction or
other improvements in the community;
   (B)   (1)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (2)   If a proposed building site is in a location which has a flood
hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial improvement (including
prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         (a)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         (b)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (c)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (C)   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (D)   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and require
on-site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Res. passed 11-28-1975)
§ 152.151  FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The township hereby evidences a positive interest in securing flood
insurance coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program because of a
clear danger of flooding and the resultant damage to property in the township.
   (B)   The township will comply with the regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program:
      (1)   To recognize and duly evaluate flood hazards and/or mudslide
hazards in all official actions relating to land use in the areas having
special flood hazards and/or mudslide hazards; and
      (2)   (a)   To take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
         (b)   Such actions must include, but will not be limited to:
            1.   Delineating or assisting the Administrator, at his or her
request, in the delineation of the limits of the floodplain having special
flood hazards and/or mudslide hazards on available local maps of sufficient
scale to identify the location of building sites;
            2.   Providing such information as the Administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the floodplain and/or mudslide areas;
            3.   Maintaining for public inspection and furnishing, upon
request, with respect to each area having special flood hazards, information on
elevations (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floors of all new or
substantially-improved structures and, where there is a basement, the distance
between the first floor and the bottom of the lowest opening where water
flowing on the ground will enter; and
            4.   Cooperating with federal, state and local agencies and private
firms which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain or mudslide
areas as well as cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions with respect to
management of adjoining floodplain or mudslide areas in order to prevent
aggravation of the flooding problem.
      (3)   To appoint or designate a representative with the responsibility,
authority and means to implement the commitment made herein and to submit, on
each anniversary date of the community’s eligibility, an annual report to the
Administrator on the progress made during the past year within the community in
the development and implementation of floodplain and/or mudslide area
management measures.
(Res. passed 11-28-1975)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of §§
152.001,
152.015 through
152.019,
152.030 through
152.040,
152.055 through
152.058,
152.070 through
152.076,
152.090 through
152.093,
152.105,
152.106,
152.120,
152.121,
152.135 and
152.136 or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice, order of direction
of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized employee of the
municipality shall be guilty of an misdemeanor and upon conviction shall pay a
fine to township not less than $25 nor more than $600 plus costs of
prosecution. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby
reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of §§
152.001,
152.015 through
152.019,
152.030 through
152.040,
152.055 through
152.058,
152.070 through
152.076,
152.090 through
152.093,
152.105,
152.106,
152.120,
152.121,
152.135 and
152.136. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, §§
152.001,
152.015 through
152.019,
152.030 through
152.040,
152.055 through
152.058,
152.070 through
152.076,
152.090 through
152.093,
152.105,
152.106,
152.120,
152.121,
152.135 and
152.136 shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance or permit it to
continue, and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations and noncompliance within a reasonable time. Any development
initiated or any structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged,
altered or relocated, in noncompliance with §§
152.001,
152.015 through
152.019,
152.030 through
152.040,
152.055 through
152.058,
152.070 through
152.076,
152.090 through
152.093,
152.105,
152.106,
152.120,
152.121,
152.135 and
152.136, may be declared by the Board to be a public nuisance and abatable as
such.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 153: WIND TURBINES
Section
   
153.01   Findings
   
153.02   Establishment
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Permits required
   
153.05   Fees
   
153.06   Duration of permit
   
153.07   Notice of application
   
153.08   Contents of permit application
   
153.09   Review of applications
   
153.10   Issuance of permits
   
153.11   Modifications
   
153.12   Continued compliance
   
153.13   No further land development
   
153.14   No further subdivision
   
153.15   Savings clause
   
153.16   Exception
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  FINDINGS.
   The Township Supervisors make the following findings with respect to the
construction, operation and maintenance of wind turbine generators.
   (A)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine generators
which fail to substantially comply with all criteria and regulations set forth
in the permit attached hereto as Exhibit A, adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein, may present tangible and immediate dangers to the public and
neighboring landowners in the nature of ejection of projectiles (ice or injured
birds), generation of noise during nighttime hours and glare from sunlight
flashing off of rotating blades.
   (B)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine generators
may present a danger following the useful life of the wind turbine generators
from deteriorating structures if provisions for decommissioning are not made as
required by Exhibit A, adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
   (C)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine
generators, which fail to comply with all criteria and regulations set forth in
the attached Exhibit A, adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, may
unreasonably interfere with the reasonable use, comfort and enjoyment of
property in the vicinity and/or may endanger the health, safety and/or welfare
of the occupants of the property in the vicinity and may prohibit or deny the
property owners and taxpayers the legitimate enjoyment of their reasonable
rights and use of their property and rights.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.02  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Township Supervisors hereby declare the construction and maintenance of
wind turbine generators to constitute a nuisance and offensive business if not
constructed and maintained in accordance with the criteria and regulations set
forth in Exhibit A, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference, subject to prohibition under § 1529 of the Pennsylvania Second
Class Township Code (53 P.S. § 66529) and provide for their regulation and
permitting under the conditions set forth below.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEGINNING OF OPERATING PERMIT PERIOD.
      (1)   The following conditions have been met:
         (a)   Physical construction of the wind turbine generator is
completed;
         (b)   The wind turbine generator has been connected to the utility
grid by PJM or another suitable regional transmission organization and is
available to produce and transfer power to the grid;
         (c)   The wind turbine generator has commenced daily and regular
operations and is receiving payment for electricity being sold to a third-party
power purchaser. Daily and regular operations shall exclude any testing period
and shall generally mean that the wind turbine generator meets the requirements
herein for longer than one week (seven days) continuously or more than 30 days
in aggregate; and
         (d)   The operating period permit shall begin when at least 75% of the
wind turbine generators permitted hereunder have met the criteria in this
definition.
      (2)   In the event that some but not all wind turbine generators meet the
criteria expressed above, the development fee as defined in §
153.05(B) shall be paid on those wind turbine generators meeting the criteria.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Any continuously occupied residence or regularly
operated business. OCCUPIED STRUCTURE shall not mean a shed, agricultural
building or hunting camp.
   PROJECT. As referred to herein shall mean all wind turbine generators and
associated equipment, including, but not limited to, foundations, crane pads,
electric substations, interconnection relays, transformers, electric collection
lines, access roads, easements, drainage ways, culverts and rights-of- way.
   PROPERTY LINE. As referred to herein the boundary of the property or lot
upon which the wind turbine generators is to be located.
   TOWER SETBACK DISTANCE. A measurement from the base of any wind turbine
generator tower to the closest corner of the nearest occupied structure. The
tower setback distance shall be a minimum of 2,500 feet.
   WIND TURBINE GENERATORS. Real and personal property, which are composed of
generators; blades; tower; base; components of the aforementioned; and
appurtenances of the aforementioned. (WIND TURBINE GENERATOR with the term
referring to both the singular and the plural of such structure.)
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.04  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No wind turbine generators shall be constructed, operated or maintained
within the township without a permit for the same. Application for permit shall
be made on forms provided by the township. The application shall include all
facilities expected to be constructed within 18 months from the date of
application.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05  FEES.
   (A)   Fees for commercial power generating windmills.
      (1)   A non-refundable application fee of $2,500 shall be submitted with
the application. In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for payment of
any review fees incurred by the township in obtaining technical review of any
portion of the application submitted which are in excess of the application fee
collected.
      (2)   A non-refundable permit fee of $1,000 per megawatt shall be paid
following approval of the permit mandated herein and prior to the issuance of
the permit. Any approval given shall be void if payment of the permit fee has
not been made and construction initiated within two years of approval. The
permit fee shall be utilized to pay the costs of assuring that the project
commences in accordance with the approval conditions granted. A permit once
paid and issued shall remain effective for a construction period 24 months from
the date of payment of the permit fee and issuance of the permit and through
the operating permit period. The construction period may be extended by the
Township Supervisors, in their sole discretion, for good cause shown.
   (B)   Development fee. Where appropriate, a development fee, payable either
annually, or as a lump sum, shall be negotiated between the Supervisors and
developer.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.06  DURATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued shall be valid for a construction period of up to 24 months
as set forth in §
153.05(A)(2), and an operating period of 30 years, beginning as set forth in
the definition for “beginning of operating permit period” in §
153.03. Any application for renewal shall satisfy all criteria and regulations
set forth in Exhibit A, adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, as
well as any new regulations which may have been adopted since the initial
issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.07  NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The applicant must provide written notice of application to all property
owners and tenants of occupied structures within a tower setback distance of
2,500 feet of any proposed tower. Proof of service of such notice by certified
mail or notarized affidavit of hand delivery must be provided with the
application.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.08  CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for windmill permits must contain information sufficient to
demonstrate that:
   (A)   No wind turbine generator shall be closer than a tower setback
distance of 2,500 feet or the proposer has received a waiver or consent from
the owner of any occupied structure;
   (B)   The developer has submitted a site development plan containing all
information required by the Summerhill Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance. The plan shall show each facility proposed as part of
the development and shall include:
      (1)   A future no-build area around the base of each tower equal in
radius to the total height of the tower plus 50 feet;
      (2)   The traffic route to be utilized in bringing construction materials
to (and from) the site, (may be a separate sheet with a different scale);
      (3)   Names and addresses of all property owners and location of all
structures within the tower setback distance of 2,500 feet. The applicant must
provide written notice of application to all property owners and tenants
occupying property with structures located within the tower setback distance of
any of the proposed facilities. Proof of service of such notice by certified
mail or notarized affidavit of hand delivery must be provided with the
application;
      (4)   Major construction details of all facilities including size and
power output specifications for each wind turbine;
      (5)   Location and construction details including drainage of all private
roads to be constructed on site for the construction, maintenance and operation
of the facilities;
      (6)   A completed erosion and sedimentation control plan for the project
pursuant to requirements under the national pollution discharge and elimination
system permits (NPDES); and
      (7)   Notarized signature of developer and landowner on the site
development plan.
   (C)   The developer shall include a transportation plan outlining access to
the site during construction which avoids to the greatest extent possible
schools, playgrounds and residential areas of the township;
   (D)   The developer provides a calculation of the costs of removal and
salvage value of each facility and provides a bond, cash or irrevocable letter
of credit to cover any deficiency. As a condition of approval, the calculation
must be revised and resubmitted to the township every two years, beginning on
the anniversary of the beginning of permit period;
   (E)   The developer shall provide a list of conditions, to be followed
during construction to ensure that erosion and sedimentation standards shall be
met during construction and operation of the facilities, which shall include
all best management practices currently recommended by the PADEP for NPDES
permitting;
   (F)   The wind turbine generators shall not be artificially illuminated
except as minimally required by the FAA or any other applicable authority. To
the extent reasonable, any lighting other than security lighting at ancillary
facilities shall not interfere with other adjoining properties or uses. A
lighting plan shall be submitted with the permit and approved by the Township
Supervisors. Documentation of lighting requirements shall be submitted with the
lighting plan; and
   (G)   The developer provides evidence that any sound created by operation of
the wind turbine at the nearest occupied structure is no more than 45 db above
background level of noise.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09  REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   The township will review the application submitted, and reject the same if
it is incomplete in any respect. In such case, the application fee shall be
retained as compensation for the time spent in review. If the application is
determined to be complete, the Township Secretary shall place the matter on the
agenda for action by the Supervisors at a public meeting, at least 30 days
following the latest notice as set forth in §
153.08(B)(3).
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.10  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Supervisors of the township, with the assistance of such consultants as
they deem appropriate, shall make a determination at a public meeting as to
whether the application submitted meets the criteria and regulations set forth
in this chapter and attached Exhibit A, adopted by reference as if set out in
full herein, as well as being in the best interests of the township and its
residents, and approve or reject the application based upon that determination
in a public vote of the Supervisors conducted during a public meeting. A site
development plan approved under this chapter shall be considered a site plan
under the township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (SALDO) and
following approval, shall be recorded as provided for in the SALDO.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.11  MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Modifications to the plan submitted and approved by the Township
Supervisors may be approved, prior to developer making those modifications by
submission in writing to the township accurately describing those
modifications.
   (B)   Such modifications shall be promptly considered by the supervisors at
any public meeting and may be granted and approved by the Supervisors as an
amendment to the permit, provided:
      (1)   The modifications do not violate any rule, criteria or requirement
specifically set forth in this chapter; and
      (2)   The modifications, in the opinion of the Supervisors, do not
materially alter the project as previously approved to the detriment of the
township or its residents.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.12  CONTINUED COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   An applicant granted a permit under this chapter shall be under a
continuing obligation to meet the performance criteria and regulations set
forth above, or as represented by the applicant in its application of at the
public hearing. The Township Supervisors hereby declare that a wind turbine
generator(s) which ceases to meet the criteria and regulations listed above,
after construction pursuant to a permit, shall constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In the event that the township determines that situation involving
noncompliance exists, it shall notify the developer or its successor in writing
of the problem and the developer shall commence or complete corrective action
immediately upon receipt of notice from the township. Such notice shall be
designated as a notice of violation, and shall be appealable as provided by
law. If developer is unable to commence corrective action within 30 days of the
notice or is unable to complete corrective action within 90 days of receipt of
notice for reasons other than delays caused by any material third party, the
developer may request an extension from the township, which may be granted in
the sole discretion of the township. Any such extension of time to correct
problems may include reasonable conditions imposed by the township. If
corrective action has not been completed within 90 days of receipt of notice,
the township may revoke the permit.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.13  NO FURTHER LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   No property or block of property upon which a permit has been granted for
the construction, maintenance or operation of a wind turbine generator(s) shall
thereafter be eligible for the issuance of a building permit within the
distance of the height of the tower plus 50 feet, other than support structures
and facilities for the wind turbine generators, fences or other structures not
intended for occupancy.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.14  NO FURTHER SUBDIVISION.
   No property or lot upon which a wind turbine generator has been located
shall be further subdivided where to do so would result in the setbacks
required by this chapter and/or as set forth in the permit not to be met.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.15  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the township that these
regulations be considered nuisance regulations and not building regulations
under the Uniform Construction Code authorized by Act 45 of 1999 implemented by
regulations of the State Department of Labor and Industry.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.16  EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to apply to small windmills constructed
on a person’s property for the purpose of providing power for use on the
property or those providing meteorological data and which otherwise meet the
requirements of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be enforced through an action brought
before a District Justice in the same manner as provided for enforcement of
summary offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure. The
township may assume charge of the prosecution without the consent of the
District Attorney as provided for in 53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(2) of the Second
Class Township Code. A criminal penalty of no less than $500 and no more than
$1,000 shall be assessed upon finding of violation by the District Justice for
a first offense. In the event of a second or subsequent offense, of a similar
nature, within a period of 24 months, a mandatory fine of $1,000 shall be
assessed upon a finding of violation. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed to be a separate violation. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter respecting enforcement, the township reserves the right to enforce this
chapter through an action for injunction in the Court of Common Pleas of the
county pursuant to 53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(4).
(Ord. 67, passed 4- -2010)
CHAPTER 154: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Statement of findings
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Statutory authority
   
154.005   Applicability
   
154.006   Repealer
   
154.007   Severability
   
154.008   Compatibility with other requirements
   
154.009   Erroneous permit
   
154.010   Waivers
   
154.011   Definitions
Stormwater Management Standards
   
154.025   General requirements
   
154.026   Exemptions
   
154.027   Volume controls
   
154.028   Rate controls
   
154.029   Riparian buffers
Stormwater Management (SWM) Site Plan Requirements
   
154.040   Plan requirements
   
154.041   Plan submission
   
154.042   Plan review
   
154.043   Modification of plans
   
154.044   Resubmission of disapproved SWM site plans
   
154.045   Authorization to construct and term of validity
   
154.046   As-built plans, completion certificate and final inspection
Operation and Maintenance
   
154.060   Responsibilities of developers and landowners
   
154.061   Operation and maintenance agreements
   
154.062   Performance guarantee
Fees and Expenses
   
154.075   General
Prohibitions
   
154.085   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
154.086   Roof drains and sump pumps
   
154.087   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Enforcement
   
154.100   Right-of-entry
   
154.101   Inspection
   
154.102   Enforcement
   
154.103   Suspension and revocation
   
154.104   Appeals
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:Operation and Maintenance Agreement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Summerhill Township
Stormwater Management Ordinance.”
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.002  STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The governing body of the municipality finds that:
   (A)   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases runoff volumes, flows and
velocities, contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying
capacity of streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public
facilities to carry and control stormwater, undermines flood plain management
and flood control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater
recharge, threatens public health and safety, and increases nonpoint source
pollution of water resources.
   (B)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management (SWM), including
reasonable regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff,
is fundamental to the public health, safety, and welfare and the protection of
people of the Commonwealth, their resources, and the environment.
   (C)   Stormwater is an important water resource that provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and supports the base flow of streams.
   (D)   The use of green infrastructure and low impact development (LID) are
intended to address the root cause of water quality impairment by using systems
and practices which use or mimic natural processes to infiltrate and recharge,
evapotranspire, and/or harvest and use precipitation near where it falls to
earth.  Green infrastructure practices and LID contribute to the restoration or
maintenance of pre-development hydrology.
   (E)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
implement a program of stormwater controls.  These municipalities are required
to obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
program.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health, safety, and welfare within
the municipality and its watershed by minimizing the harms and maximizing the
benefits described in §
154.002 of this chapter, through provisions designed to:
   (A)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93 to protect, maintain, reclaim, and
restore the existing and designated uses of the waters of this Commonwealth;
   (B)   Preserve natural drainage systems;
   (C)   Manage stormwater runoff close to the source, reduce runoff volumes
and mimic predevelopment hydrology;
   (D)   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater planning
and management;
   (E)   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources;
   (F)   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds;
   (G)   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all stormwater best
management practices (BMPs) that are implemented within the municipality; and
   (H)   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.004  STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The municipality is empowered to regulate land use activities that affect
runoff by the authority of the Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, and/or the Act of
October 4, 1978, P.L. 864 (Act 167), 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq., as amended, the
Stormwater Management Act.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.005  APPLICABILITY.
   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbance activity, are subject
to regulation by this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.006  REPEALER.
   Any other ordinance provision(s) or regulation of the municipality
inconsistent with any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby repealed to
the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.007  SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any section or
provision of this chapter invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of any of the remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.008  COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Approvals issued and actions taken under this chapter do not relieve the
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other code, law, regulation or ordinance.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.009  ERRONEOUS PERMIT.
   Any permit or authorization issued or approved based on false, misleading or
erroneous information provided by an applicant is void without the necessity of
any proceedings for revocation. Any work undertaken or use established pursuant
to such permit or other authorization is unlawful. No action may be taken by a
board, agency or employee of the municipality purporting to validate such a
violation.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.010  WAIVERS.
   (A)   If the municipality determines that any requirement under this chapter
cannot be achieved for a particular regulated activity, the municipality may,
after an evaluation of alternatives, approve measures other than those in this
chapter, subject to divisions (B) of and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Waivers or modifications of the requirements of this chapter may be
approved by the municipality if enforcement will exact undue hardship because
of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question, provided that the
modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and that the purpose
of the ordinance is preserved.  Cost or financial burden shall not be
considered a hardship.  Modification may be considered if an alternative
standard or approach will provide equal or better achievement of the purpose of
the ordinance.  A request for modifications shall be in writing and accompany
the stormwater management site plan submission.  The request shall provide the
facts on which the request is based, the provision(s) of the ordinance involved
and the proposed modification.
   (C)   No waiver or modification of any regulated stormwater activity
involving earth disturbance greater than or equal to one acre may be granted by
the municipality unless that action is approved in advance by the Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) or the delegated county conservation district.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.011  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  The word
“includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to the specific example but
is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances of like kind and
character.  The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory; the words “may” and
“should” are permissive.  These definitions do not necessarily reflect the
definitions contained in pertinent regulations or statutes, and are intended
for this chapter only.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.  Activities associated with agriculture such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation and animal heavy use areas. 
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures.  Construction
of new buildings or impervious area is not considered an agricultural activity.
   APPLICANT.  A landowner, developer or other person who has filed an
application to the municipality for approval to engage in any regulated
activity at a project site in the municipality.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP).  Activities, facilities, designs, measures,
or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated activities, to
meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater recharge, and to
otherwise meet the purposes of this chapter.  Stormwater BMPs are commonly
grouped into one of two broad categories or measures: structural or non-
structural.  In this chapter, non-structural BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff, whereas structural BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff.  Structural BMPs include, but
are not limited to, a wide variety of practices and devices, from large-scale
retention ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment
systems, infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design,
bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested
buffers, sand filters, detention basins, and manufactured devices.  Structural
stormwater BMPs are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  A conservation district, as defined in Section 3(c)
of the Conservation District Law (3 P.S. § 851(c)) that has the authority under
a delegation agreement executed with DEP to administer and enforce all or a
portion of the regulations promulgated under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   DESIGN STORM.  The magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation from
a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (such as, a five-year
storm) and duration (such as, 24 hours) used in the design and evaluation of
stormwater management systems.  Also see RETURN PERIOD.
   DETENTION VOLUME.  The volume of runoff that is captured and released into
the waters of the Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
   DEP.  The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE (SITE).  See PROJECT SITE.
   DISTURBED AREA.  An unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance
activity is occurring or has occurred.
   EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  A construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to: clearing and
grubbing; grading; excavations; embankments; road maintenance; building
construction; and the moving, depositing, stockpiling, or storing of soil, rock
or earth materials.
   EROSION.  The natural process by which the surface of the land is worn away
by water, wind or chemical action.
   EXISTING CONDITION.  The dominant land cover during the five-year period
immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity.
   FEMA.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODPLAIN.  Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any
natural source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a
special flood hazard area.  Also includes areas that comprise Group 13 Soils,
as listed in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for Sewage
Enforcement Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP).
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood.  Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA.  In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
floodway, it is assumed absent evidence to the contrary that the floodway
extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream.
   FOREST MANAGEMENT/TIMBER OPERATIONS.  Planning and activities necessary for
the management of forestland.  These include conducting a timber inventory,
preparation of forest management plans, silvicultural treatment, cutting
budgets, logging road design and construction, timber harvesting, site
preparation and reforestation.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE.  Systems and practices that use or mimic natural
processes to infiltrate, evapotranspire or reuse stormwater on the site where
it is generated.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG).  Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and
are affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates.  Soils
are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C, and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. 
The NRCS defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in
the United States and their group classification.  The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district offices.  Soils
become less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D (NRCS).
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS AREA).  A surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground.  Impervious surfaces (or areas) shall
include, but not be limited to: roofs; additional indoor living spaces, patios,
garages, storage sheds and similar structures; and any new streets or
sidewalks.  Decks, parking areas and driveway areas are not counted as
impervious areas if they do not prevent infiltration.
   KARST.  A type of topography or landscape characterized by surface
depressions, sinkholes, rock pinnacles/uneven bedrock surface, underground
drainage, and caves.  KARST is formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestone or
dolomite.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT (DEVELOPMENT).  Inclusive of any or all of the following
meanings:  the improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts,
or parcels of land for any purpose involving a group of two or more buildings
or the division or allocation of land or space between or among two or more
existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose of streets,
common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups, or other features; any
subdivision of land; development in accordance with Section 503(1.1) of the PA
Municipalities Planning Code.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID).  Site design approaches and small-scale
stormwater management practices that promote the use of natural systems for
infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of rainwater.  LID can be applied
to new development, urban retrofits and revitalization projects.  LID utilizes
design techniques that infiltrate, filter, evaporate and store runoff close to
its source.  Rather than rely on costly large-scale conveyance and treatment
systems, LID addresses stormwater through a variety of small, cost-effective
landscape features located on-site.
   NRCS.  The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (previously SCS).
   PEAK DISCHARGE.  The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific storm
event.
   PERVIOUS AREA.  Any area not defined as impervious.
   PROJECT SITE.  The specific area of land where any regulated activities in
the municipality are planned, conducted or maintained.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL.  Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania Department
of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required by this
chapter.
   REGULATED ACTIVITIES.  Any earth disturbance activities or any activities
that involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that may affect
stormwater runoff.
   REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  Activity involving earth disturbance
subject to regulation under 25 Pa. Code Chapters 92 and 102 or the Clean
Streams Law.
   RETENTION VOLUME/REMOVED RUNOFF.  The volume of runoff that is captured and
not released directly into the surface waters of this Commonwealth during or
after a storm event.
   RETURN PERIOD.  The average interval, in years, within which a storm event
of a given magnitude can be expected to occur one time.  For example, the 25-
year return period rainfall would be expected to occur on average once every 25
years; or stated in another way, the probability of a 25-year storm occurring
in any one year is 0.04 (for example, a 4% chance).
   RIPARIAN BUFFER.  A permanent area of trees and shrubs located adjacent to
streams, lakes, ponds and wetlands.
   RUNOFF.  Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
   SEDIMENT.  Soils or other materials transported by surface water as a
product of erosion.
   STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.  The regulatory requirements to protect,
maintain, reclaim and restore water quality under Pa. Code Title 25 and the
Clean Streams Law.
   STORMWATER.  Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY.  Any structure, natural or man-made, that,
due to its condition, design, or construction, conveys, stores, or otherwise
affects stormwater runoff.  Typical stormwater management facilities include,
but are not limited to:  detention and retention basins; open channels; storm
sewers; pipes; and infiltration facilities.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN.  The plan prepared by the developer or his
or her representative indicating how stormwater runoff will be managed at the
development site in accordance with this chapter  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE
PLAN will be designated as SWM Site Plan throughout this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION.  As defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247.
   USDA.  The United States Department of Agriculture.
   WATERS OF THIS COMMONWEALTH.  Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of
surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial,
within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
   WATERSHED.  Region or area drained by a river, watercourse, or other surface
water of this Commonwealth.
   WETLAND.  Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.025  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For all regulated activities, unless preparation of an SWM site plan
is specifically exempted in §
154.026 of this subchapter:
      (1)   Preparation and implementation of an approved SWM site plan is
required.
      (2)   No regulated activities shall commence until the municipality
issues written approval of an SWM site plan, which demonstrates compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   SWM site plans approved by the municipality, in accordance with §
154.045 of this chapter, shall be on site throughout the duration of the
regulated activity.
   (C)   The municipality may, after consultation with DEP, approve measures
for meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in this
chapter, provided that they meet the minimum requirements of, and do not
conflict with, state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law.
   (D)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated, and maintained during
the regulated earth disturbance activities (such as, during construction) to
meet the purposes and requirements of this chapter and to meet all requirements
under Pa. Code Title 25 and the Clean Streams Law.  Various BMPs and their
design standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control
Program Manual (E&S Manual), No. 363-2134-008, as amended and updated.
   (E)   Impervious areas:
      (1)   The measurement of impervious areas shall include all of the
impervious areas in the total proposed development even if development is to
take place in stages.
      (2)   For development taking place in stages, the entire development plan
must be used in determining conformance with this chapter.
      (3)   For projects that add impervious area to a parcel, the total
impervious area on the parcel is subject to the requirements of this chapter;
except that the volume controls in §
154.027 and the peak rate controls of §
154.028 do not need to be retrofitted to existing impervious areas that are not
being altered by the proposed regulated activity.
   (F)   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated or otherwise altered without written
notification to the adjacent property owner(s).  Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   All regulated activities shall include such measures as necessary to:
      (1)   Protect health, safety and property;
      (2)   Meet the water quality goals of this chapter by implementing
measures to:
         (a)   Minimize disturbance to floodplains, wetlands and wooded areas;
         (b)   Maintain or extend riparian buffers;
         (c)   Avoid erosive flow conditions in natural flow pathways;
         (d)   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of this Commonwealth; and
         (e)   Disconnect impervious surfaces by directing runoff to pervious
areas, wherever possible.
      (3)   Incorporate methods described in the Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual (BMP Manual).  If methods other than green
infrastructure and LID methods are proposed to achieve the volume and rate
controls required under this chapter, the SWM site plan must include a detailed
justification demonstrating that the use of LID and green infrastructure is not
practicable.
   (H)   The design of all facilities over karst shall include an evaluation of
measures to minimize adverse effects.
   (I)   Infiltration BMPs should be spread out, made as shallow as
practicable, and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration
features while still meeting the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   Normally dry, open top, storage facilities should completely drain
both the volume control and rate control capacities over a period of time not
less than 24 and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   (K)   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates of
discharge should be obtained from the latest version of the Precipitation-
Frequency Atlas of the United States, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design
Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland.  NOAA’s Atlas 14 can be accessed at: 
http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
   (L)   For all regulated activities, SWM BMPs shall be designed, implemented,
operated, and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of this chapter
and to meet all requirements under Pa. Code Title 25, the Clean Streams Law,
and the Storm Water Management Act.
   (M)   Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the BMP Manual.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)  Penalty, §
154.999
§ 154.026  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Regulated activities that result in cumulative earth disturbances less
than .02 acres are exempt from the requirements in §§
154.027,
154.028 and
154.040 through
154.046 of this chapter.
   (B)   Agricultural activity is exempt from the SWM site plan preparation
requirements of this chapter provided the activities are performed according to
the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   (C)   Forest management and timber operations are exempt from the SWM site
plan preparation requirements of this chapter provided the activities are
performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   (D)   Exemptions from any provisions of this chapter shall not relieve the
applicant from the requirements in §
154.025(D) through (K) of this subchapter.
   (E)   The municipality may deny or revoke any exemption pursuant to this
section at any time for any project that the municipality believes may pose a
threat to public health and safety or the environment.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.027  VOLUME CONTROLS.
   The green infrastructure and low impact development practices provided in
the BMP Manual shall be utilized for all regulated activities wherever
possible.  Water volume controls shall be implemented using the design storm
method in division (A) of this section or the simplified method in division (B)
of this section. For regulated activity areas equal or less than one acre that
do not require hydrologic routing to design the stormwater facilities, this
chapter establishes no preference for either methodology; therefore, the
applicant may select either methodology on the basis of economic
considerations, the intrinsic limitations on applicability of the analytical
procedures associated with each methodology and other factors.
   (A)   The design storm method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual) is applicable to any
size of regulated activity.  This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
      (1)   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the two-year 24-hour duration precipitation.
      (2)   For modeling purposes:
         (a)   Existing (predevelopment) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow in good condition.
         (b)   (Enter a percentage no less than 20%, up to 100%) of existing
impervious area, when present, shall be considered meadow in good condition in
the model for existing conditions.
   (B)   The simplified method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the design storm method is
not followed.  This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities.  For new impervious surfaces:
      (1)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two inches
of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
      (2)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious surfaces
shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, for example, it shall not be
released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth.  Removal options include
reuse, evaporation, transpiration and infiltration.
      (3)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first 0.5 inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
      (4)   This method is exempt from the requirements of §
154.028 of this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.028  RATE CONTROLS.
   (A)   For areas not covered by a release rate map from an approved Act 167
Stormwater Management Plan: Post-development discharge rates shall not exceed
the pre-development discharge rates for the one-, two-, five-, ten-, 25-, 50-,
and 100-year, 24-hour storm events.  If it is shown that the peak rates of
discharge indicated by the post-development analysis are less than or equal to
the peak rates of discharge indicated by the pre-development analysis for one-,
two-, five-, ten-, 25-, 50-, and 100-year, 24-hour storms, then the
requirements of this section have been met.  Otherwise, the applicant shall
provide additional controls as necessary to satisfy the peak rate of discharge
requirement.
   (B)   For areas covered by a release rate map from an approved Act 167,
Stormwater Management Plan:  For the one-, two-, five-, ten-, 25-, 50-, and
100-year, 24-hour storm events, the post-development peak discharge rates will
follow the applicable approved release rate maps.  For any areas not shown on
the release rate maps, the post-development discharge rates shall not exceed
the pre-development discharge rates.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.029  RIPARIAN BUFFERS.
   (A)   In order to protect and improve water quality, a riparian buffer
easement shall be created and recorded as part of any subdivision or land
development that encompasses a riparian buffer.
   (B)   Except as required by 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102, the riparian buffer
easement shall be measured to be the greater of the limit of the 100-year
floodplain or a minimum of 35 feet from the top of the streambank (on each
side).
   (C)   Minimum management requirements for riparian buffers:
      (1)   Existing native vegetation shall be protected and maintained within
the riparian buffer easement.   
      (2)   Whenever practicable invasive vegetation shall be actively removed
and the riparian buffer easement shall be planted with native trees, shrubs and
other vegetation to create a diverse native plant community appropriate to the
intended ecological context of the site.
   (D)   The riparian buffer easement shall be enforceable by the municipality
and shall be recorded in the appropriate County Recorder of Deeds Office, so
that it shall run with the land and shall limit the use of the property located
therein.  The easement shall allow for the continued private ownership and
shall count toward the minimum lot area a required by zoning, unless otherwise
specified in the municipal Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Any permitted use within the riparian buffer easement shall be
conducted in a manner that will maintain the extent of the existing 100-year
floodplain, improve or maintain the stream stability, and preserve and protect
the ecological function of the floodplain.
   (F)   The following conditions shall apply when public and/or private
recreation trails are permitted within riparian buffers:
      (1)   Trails shall be for non-motorized use only.
      (2)   Trails shall be designed to have the least impact on native plant
species and other sensitive environmental features.
   (G)   Septic drainfields and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted
within the riparian buffer easement and shall comply with setback requirements
established under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT (SWM) SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.040  PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following items shall be included in the SWM site plan:
   (A)   Appropriate sections from the municipal subdivision and land
development ordinance, and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed
in preparing the SWM site plans.  In instances where the municipality lacks
subdivision and land development regulations, the content of SWM site plans
shall follow the county’s subdivision and land development ordinance.
   (B)   The municipality shall not approve any SWM site plan that is deficient
in meeting the requirements of this chapter.  At its sole discretion and in
accordance with this subchapter, when a SWM site plan is found to be deficient,
the municipality may either disapprove the submission and require a
resubmission, or in the case of minor deficiencies, the municipality may accept
submission of modifications.
   (C)   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPs, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan discussed in division (E)(9)
of this section.
   (D)   The following signature block for the municipality:  The municipal
engineering group, or qualified Township Supervisor, on this date February 5,
2019, has reviewed and hereby certifies that the SWM site plan meets all design
standards and criteria of Ordinance 81.
   (E)   The SWM site plan shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The overall stormwater management concept for the project;
      (2)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual.  A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or karst topography, and other environmentally
sensitive areas, such as brownfields;
      (3)   Stormwater runoff design computations and documentation as
specified in this chapter, or as otherwise necessary to demonstrate that the
maximum practicable measures have been taken to meet the requirements of this
chapter, including the recommendations and general requirements in §
154.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Expected project time schedule;
      (5)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority;
      (6)   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality, and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project;
      (7)   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels and swales;
      (8)   SWM site plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed on-
lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells;
      (9)   The SWM site plan shall include an O&M plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities.  This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for O&M as well as schedules and costs
for O&M activities; and
      (10)   A justification must be included in the SWM site plan if BMPs
other than green infrastructure methods and LID practices are proposed to
achieve the volume, rate and water quality controls under this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.041  PLAN SUBMISSION.
   Five copies of the SWM site plan shall be submitted as follows:
   (A)   Two copies to the municipality;
   (B)   One copy to the municipal engineer (when applicable);
   (C)   One copy to the County Conservation District; and
   (D)   One copy to the County Planning Commission/Office.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.042  PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   SWM site plans shall be reviewed by the municipality for consistency
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The municipality shall notify the applicant in writing within 45 days
whether the SWM site plan is approved or disapproved.  If the SWM site plan
involves a subdivision and land development plan, the notification shall occur
within the time period allowed by the Municipalities Planning Code (90 days). 
If a longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation, or
ordinance, the applicant will be so notified by the municipality.
   (C)   For any SWM site plan that proposes to use any BMPs other than green
infrastructure and LID practices to achieve the volume and rate controls
required under this chapter, the municipality will not approve the SWM site
plan unless it determines that green infrastructure and LID practices are not
practicable.
   (D)   If the municipality disapproves the SWM site plan, the municipality
will state the reasons for the disapproval in writing.  The municipality also
may approve the SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall provide the
acceptable conditions for approval in writing.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.043  MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   A modification to a submitted SWM site plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as stated on the SWM
site plan as determined by the municipality shall require a resubmission of the
modified SWM site plan in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.044  RESUBMISSION OF DISAPPROVED SWM SITE PLANS.
   A disapproved SWM site plan may be resubmitted, with the revisions
addressing the municipality’s concerns, to the municipality in accordance with
this subchapter.  The applicable review fee must accompany a resubmission of a
disapproved SWM site plan.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.045  AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT AND TERM OF VALIDITY.
   The municipality’s approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the regulated
activities contained in the SWM site plan for a maximum term of validity of
five years following the date of approval.  The municipality may specify a term
of validity shorter than five years in the approval for any specific SWM site
plan.  Terms of validity shall commence on the date the municipality signs the
approval for an SWM site plan.  If an approved SWM site plan is not completed
according to §
154.046 of this subchapter within the term of validity, then the municipality
may consider the SWM site plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. 
SWM site plans that are considered disapproved by the municipality shall be
resubmitted in accordance with §
154.044 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.046  AS-BUILT PLANS, COMPLETION CERTIFICATE AND FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWM BMPs included in the approved SWM site plan.  The as-built plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the municipality.
   (B)   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications.  The
latitude and longitude coordinates for all permanent SWM BMPs must also be
submitted, at the central location of the BMPs.  If any licensed qualified
professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a licensed qualified
professional must sign the completion certificate.
   (C)   After receipt of the completion certification by the municipality, the
municipality may conduct a final inspection.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 154.060  RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPERS AND LANDOWNERS.
   (A)   The municipality shall make the final determination on the continuing
maintenance responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM site plan.  The
municipality may require a dedication of such facilities as part of the
requirements for approval of the SWM site plan.  Such a requirement is not an
indication that the municipality will accept the facilities.  The municipality
reserves the right to accept or reject the ownership and operating
responsibility for any portion of the stormwater management controls.
   (B)   Facilities, areas or structures used as SWM BMPs shall be enumerated
as permanent real estate appurtenances and recorded as deed restrictions or
conservation easements that run with the land.
   (C)   The O&M plan shall be recorded as a restrictive deed covenant that
runs with the land.
   (D)   The municipality may take enforcement actions against an owner for any
failure to satisfy the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.061  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to final approval of the SWM site plan, the property owner shall
sign and record an operation and maintenance (O&M) agreement (see Appendix A)
covering all stormwater control facilities which are to be privately owned.
      (1)   The owner, successor and assigns shall maintain all facilities in
accordance with the approved maintenance schedule in the O&M agreement.
      (2)   The owner shall convey to the municipality conservation easements
to assure access for periodic inspections by the municipality and maintenance,
as necessary.
      (3)   The owner shall keep on file with the municipality the name,
address, and telephone number of the person or company responsible for
maintenance activities; in the event of a change, new information shall be
submitted by the owner to the municipality within ten working days of the
change.
   (B)   The owner is responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
SWM BMPs.  If the owner fails to adhere to the O&M agreement, the municipality
may perform the services required and charge the owner appropriate fees. 
Nonpayment of fees may result in a lien against the property.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.062  PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   For SWM site plans that involve subdivision and land development, the
applicant shall provide a financial guarantee to the municipality for the
timely installation and proper construction of all stormwater management
controls as required by the approved SWM site plan and this chapter in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 509, 510 and 511 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
FEES AND EXPENSES
§ 154.075  GENERAL.
   (A)   The municipality may include all costs incurred in the review fee
charged to an applicant.
   (B)   The review fee may include, but not be limited to, costs for the
following:
      (1)   Administrative/clerical processing;
      (2)   Review of the SWM site plan;
      (3)   Attendance at meetings; and
      (4)   Inspections.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 154.085  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water to enter a regulated small MS4 or to enter the surface waters of
this Commonwealth is prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into a regulated
small MS4, or discharges into waters of this Commonwealth, which are not
composed entirely of stormwater, except as provided in division (C) of this
section and discharges authorized under a state or federal permit.
   (C)   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined to
be significant contributors to pollution a regulated small MS4 or to the waters
of this Commonwealth:
      (1)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities;
      (2)   Discharges from potable water sources including water line flushing
and fire hydrant flushing, if such discharges do not contain detectable
concentrations of total residual chlorine (TRC);
      (3)   Non-contaminated irrigation water, water from lawn maintenance,
landscape drainage and flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (4)   Diverted stream flows and springs;
      (5)   Non-contaminated pumped ground water and water from foundation and
footing drains and crawl space pumps;
      (6)   Non-contaminated HVAC condensation and water from geothermal
systems;
      (7)   Residential (such as, not commercial) vehicle wash water where
cleaning agents are not utilized; and
      (8)   Non-contaminated hydrostatic test water discharges, if such
discharges do not contain detectable concentrations of TRC.
   (D)   In the event that the municipality or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in division (C) of this section significantly contribute
pollutants to a regulated small MS4 or to the waters of this Commonwealth, the
municipality or DEP will notify the responsible person(s) to cease the
discharge.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.086  ROOF DRAINS AND SUMP PUMPS.
   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to infiltration or vegetative
BMPs wherever feasible.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.087  ALTERATION OF SWM BMPS.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape, or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas, or structures that were installed as a requirement of this
chapter without the written approval of the municipality.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)  Penalty, see §
154.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.100  RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the municipality or its designated
agent may enter at reasonable times upon any property within the municipality
to inspect the condition of the stormwater structures and facilities in regard
to any aspect regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.101  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The landowner or the owner’s designee (including the municipality for
dedicated and owned facilities) shall inspect SWM BMPs, facilities and/or
structures installed under this chapter according to the following frequencies,
at a minimum, to ensure the BMPs, facilities and/or structures continue to
function as intended:
      (1)   Annually for the first five years;
      (2)   Once every three years thereafter;
      (3)   During or immediately after the cessation of a ten-year or greater
storm.
   (B)   Inspections should be conducted during or immediately following
precipitation events.  A written inspection report shall be created to document
each inspection.  The inspection report shall contain the date and time of the
inspection, the individual(s) who completed the inspection, the location of the
BMP, facility or structure inspected, observations on performance, and
recommendations for improving performance, if applicable.  Inspection reports
shall be submitted to the municipality within 30 days following completion of
the inspection.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.102  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated activity
except as provided in an approved SWM site plan, unless specifically exempted
in §
154.026 of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to violate §
154.087 of this chapter.
   (C)   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are a
responsibility of the municipality.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.103  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION .
   (A)   Any approval or permit issued by the municipality pursuant to this
chapter may be suspended or revoked for:
      (1)   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM site plan or O&M agreement;
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to the regulated
activity; or
      (3)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution or endangers the life or property of others.
   (B)   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the municipality when:
      (1)   The municipality has inspected and approved the corrections to the
violations that caused the suspension; or
      (2)   The municipality is satisfied that the violation has been
corrected.
   (C)   an approval that has been revoked by the municipality cannot be
reinstated.  The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health, or
property, at its sole discretion, the municipality may provide a limited time
period for the owner to correct the violation.  In these cases, the
municipality will provide the owner, or the owner’s designee, with a written
notice of the violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct
the violation.  If the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed
time period, the municipality may revoke or suspend any, or all, applicable
approvals and permits pertaining to any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.104  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the municipality or its
designee, relevant to the provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the
municipality within 30 days of that action.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the municipality, relevant to
the provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the County Court of Common Pleas
in the county where the activity has taken place within 30 days of the
municipality’s decision.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $600 for each violation, recoverable with costs.  Each day that the
violation continues shall be a separate offense and penalties shall be
cumulative.
   (B)   In addition, the municipality may institute injunctive, mandamus, or
any other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the
enforcement of this chapter.  Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have
the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions,
mandamus, or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
APPENDIX A:  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) AGREEMENT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (SWM BMPs)
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this _____ day of ____________, 20___,
by and between _________________ (hereinafter the “Landowner”), and
____________, ___________ County, Pennsylvania (hereinafter “Municipality”);
WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded by
deed in the land records of __________ County, Pennsylvania, Deed Book _______
at page _______, (hereinafter “Property”).
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the SWM BMP Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan approved by the
Municipality (hereinafter referred to as the “O&M Plan”) for the property
identified herein, which is attached hereto as Appendix A and made part hereof,
as approved by the Municipality, provides for management of stormwater within
the confines of the Property through the use of BMPs; and
   WHEREAS, the Municipality, and the Landowner, his successors and assigns,
agree that the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Municipality
and the protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-site SWM
BMPs be constructed and maintained on the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the Municipality requires, through the implementation of the SWM
Site Plan, that SWM BMPs as required by said SWM Site Plan and the Municipal
Stormwater Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and
maintained by the Landowner, successors, and assigns.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
1.   The Landowner shall construct the BMPs in accordance with the plans and
specifications identified in the SWM Site Plan.
2.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the BMPs as shown on the SWM Site
Plan in good working order in accordance with the specific operation and
maintenance requirements noted on the approved O&M Plan.
3.   The Landowner hereby grants permission to the Municipality, its authorized
agents and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable times and upon
presentation of proper credentials, to inspect the BMPs whenever necessary. 
Whenever possible, the Municipality shall notify the Landowner prior to
entering the property.
4.   In the event the Landowner fails to operate and maintain the BMPs per
paragraph 2, the Municipality or its representatives may enter upon the
Property and take whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said BMP(s). 
It is expressly understood and agreed that the Municipality is under no
obligation to maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event shall this
Agreement be construed to impose any such obligation on the Municipality.
5.   In the event the Municipality, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work
of any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor, use
of equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the Landowner shall reimburse
the Municipality for all expenses (direct and indirect) incurred within 10 days
of receipt of invoice from the Municipality.
6.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the on-site BMPs by the Landowner; provided, however, that this
Agreement shall not be deemed to create any additional liability of any party
for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater runoff.
7.   The Landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns, and other
successors in interests, shall release the Municipality from all damages,
accidents, casualties, occurrences, or claims which might arise or be asserted
against said employees and representatives from the construction, presence,
existence, or maintenance of the BMP(s) by the Landowner or Municipality.
8.   The Municipality intends to inspect the BMPs at a minimum of once every
three years to ensure their continued functioning.
This Agreement shall be recorded at the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
__________ County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant running with
the Property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on the Landowner,
his administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successors in
interests, in perpetuity.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
(SEAL)                           For the Municipality:
                              _______________________
                              For the Landowner:
                              _______________________
ATTEST:
___________________________________ (City, Borough, Township)
County of __________, Pennsylvania
I, _________________________, a Notary Public in and for the county and state
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the ____ day of _____________, 20___, do
hereby certify that _________________________ whose name(s) is/are signed to
the foregoing Agreement bearing date of the  ____ day ____________, 20___, has
acknowledged the same before me in my said county and state.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS ______ day of _____________, 20___.
_________________________               _________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC                     (SEAL)
(Ord. 81, passed 2-5-2019)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Definitions
Submission and Review Procedures
   
155.015   Procedure
   
155.016   Submission of sketch plan (voluntary)
   
155.017   Review of sketch plan (voluntary)
   
155.018   Submission of preliminary plan
   
155.019   Review of preliminary plan
   
155.020   Submission of final plan
   
155.021   Review of final plan
   
155.022   Recording of final plan
   
155.023   Performance guarantee
   
155.024   Release of performance guarantee
   
155.025   Resubdivision procedure
   
155.026   Dedication and maintenance guarantee
Plan Requirements
   
155.040   Sketch plan (voluntary)
   
155.041   Preliminary plan
   
155.042   Final plan
   
155.043   Minor subdivisions and land developments and non-building lots
Design Standards
   
155.055   General standards
   
155.056   Streets
   
155.057   Blocks
   
155.058   Lots and parcels
   
155.059   Sanitary sewage disposal
   
155.060   Soil tests requirements
   
155.061   Water supply
   
155.062   Storm water drainage
   
155.063   Public use and service area
Improvement Requirements
   
155.075   General requirements
   
155.076   Required improvements
   
155.077   Recommended improvements
Land Development Standards
   
155.090   Definitions and exclusions
   
155.091   Procedures and exceptions
   
155.092   Final plan review
   
155.093   Site plan
   
155.094   General development standards
   
155.095   Multi-family dwelling development standards
   
155.096   Commercial and industrial development standards
   
155.097   Acceptance, maintenance and completion of improvements
Mobile Home Parks
   
155.110   Mobile home park regulations
Administration and Amendments
   
155.120   Revision and amendment
   
155.121   Modifications
   
155.122   Mediation and appeals
   
155.123   Fees
   
155.124   Remedies, enforcement and jurisdiction
   
155.125   Keeping of records
   
155.126   Responsibility
   
155.127   Conflicts
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited as, the Summerhill Township,
Cambria County, Subdivision and Land Development Regulations of 2007.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.002  PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted to protect, promote and create conditions
favorable to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens by:
   (A)   Encouraging and promoting flexibility, economy, and ingenuity in the
layout and design of subdivisions and land development including the provisions
authorizing the municipality to alter site requirements and for encouraging
other practices which are in accordance with modern and evolving principles of
site planning and development; 
   (B)   Assuring sites suitable for building purposes and human habitation;
   (C)   Providing for the harmonious development of the municipality as
outlined in the municipality’s Comprehensive Plan (if applicable);
   (D)   Assuring coordination of existing streets and highways with proposed
streets, parks, or other features of the official plan or map of the
municipality;
   (E)   Providing for adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and
air and for proper distribution of population;
   (F)   Assuring equitable and just processing of subdivision plans by
providing uniform procedures and standards for the observance of both the
subdivider and municipal officials;
   (G)   Planning and managing storm water runoff in each watershed by
regulating subdivisions, land development and mobile home parks in a manner
consistent with the Pennsylvania Storm Water Management Act 167;
   (H)   Utilizing and preserving the desirable existing natural drainage
system;
   (I)   Encouraging recharge of ground waters;
   (J)   Maintaining the existing flows and quality of streams and water
courses in the municipality and the Commonwealth;
   (K)   Preserving and restoring the flood carrying capacity of streams; and
   (L)   Providing for proper maintenance of all permanent storm water
management structures which are constructed in the municipality.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The words
“person,” “subdivider,” and “owner” include a corporation, unincorporated
association and a partnership, or other legal entity, as well as an
individual.  The word “building” includes structures and shall be construed as
if followed by the phrase “or part thereof.”  The word “watercourse” includes
channel, creek, ditch, drain, dry run, spring and stream.  The words “should”
and “may” are permissive; the words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and
directive.
   BLOCK.  A tract of land, a lot, or group of lots, bounded by streets, public
parks, railroad right-of-way, water courses, boundary lines of the
municipality, unsubdivided land, or by any combination of the above.
   BUILDING.  A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter of persons, animals, chattels or property.  When separated by walls
which are common with the walls of adjoining dwellings, each portion of such
structure shall be considered a separate building.  It shall include any
overhang, projection, or roof extending beyond a wall or support.  Sun parlors
and covered porches whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include walks,
steps or terraces. 
   BUILDING RESERVE LINE (SETBACK).  The line within a property defining the
minimum required distance between any building to be erected and an adjacent
right-of-way.  Such line shall be measured at right angles from the front
street right-of-way line which abuts the property upon which said building is
located and shall be parallel to said right-of-way line.
   CARTWAY (ROADWAY).  The portion of a street right-of-way, paved or unpaved,
intended for vehicular use.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE.  An area of unobstructed vision at the street
intersection defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from
the intersection of street center lines. 
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Cambria County Planning Commission.
   DEDICATION.  The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any
general and public use, reserving to himself or herself no other rights than
those that are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public
uses to which the property has been devoted.
   DETENTION BASIN.  A basin designed to retard storm water runoff by
temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate.  A
DETENTION BASIN can be designed to drain completely after a storm event, or it
can be designed to contain a permanent pool of water.
   DEVELOPER.  Any landowner, agent or such landowner, or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision of
land or a land development. 
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any structure, or part thereof, designed to be occupied as
living quarters for a single housekeeping unit. 
   EASEMENT.  A right-of-way granted, but not dedicated, for limited use of
private land for a public or quasi-public purpose, and within which the grantor
shall not erect any permanent structure, but shall have the right to make any
other use of the land which is not inconsistent with the rights of the grantee.
   ENGINEER.  A licensed professional engineer registered in the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of, streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups, or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land; and
      (3)   Excepting:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached or single-
family semi-detached  dwelling into not more than three residential units,
unless such  units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of an accessory building, including farm buildings,
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing  principal building; and
         (c)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise  which would be considered an amusement park.  For
purposes of this subsection, an amusement park is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location  for permanent amusement structures or rides. 
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the  expanded area have been approved by proper
authorities.
   LOT.  A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed, or built upon as a
unit. 
   LOT AREA.  The area contained within the property lines of a lot excluding
space within all streets and within all permanent drainage easements, but
including the areas of all other easements.
   MARKER.  A metal pipe or pin of at least one-half inch in diameter and at
least 24 inches in length.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION.  Any subdivision containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street, and not involving the extension of sanitary
water and/or sewer lines, or the creation of any public improvements, and does
not adversely affect the natural resources of the municipality, and does not
adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and does
not adversely affect the present or future development of the municipality.
   MOBILE HOME LOT.  A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home. 
   MOBILE HOME.  A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy contained in one unit or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been so
designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots for the
placement thereon of mobile homes. 
   MONUMENT.  At a minimum, each monument shall consist of an iron or steel pin
at least one-half inch in diameter and 24" in length.  This monument may be
encased in concrete with a flat top of at least six inches in diameter
(optional). 
   MUNICIPAL GOVERNING BODY.  The Council/Supervisors of Summerhill Township,
Cambria County.
   MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.  Summerhill Township Board of Supervisors.
   OFFICIAL PLANS.  The Comprehensive Development Plan and/or official map and/
or topographical survey and/or such other plans, or portions thereof, as may
have been adopted by the municipality pursuant to statute, for the area of the
municipality in which the subdivision is located.
   PAVED or PAVEMENT.  An all-weather permanent surface composed of bituminous
or concrete material applied over a base of stone or slag and used to convey
motor vehicles.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMITTEE.  The Planning Commission or
Committee of Summerhill Township, Cambria County.
   PLAT.  The map or plan of a subdivision or land development, whether
preliminary or final.  The word PLAT includes the word “plan.”
   PUBLIC GROUNDS:  Includes:
      (1)   Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths, and other recreational areas and
other public areas;
      (2)   Sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal and other
publicly-owned or operated facilities; and
      (3)   Publicly-owned or operated scenic and historic sites. 
   PUBLIC HEARING.  A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
governing body or planning agency, intended to inform and obtain public
comment, prior to taking action in accordance with this chapter.
   PUBLIC MEETING.  A forum held pursuant to notice under 65 Pa.C.S. Chapter 7
(relating to open meetings). 
   PUBLIC NOTICE.  Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in
a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.  Such notice shall
state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter
to be considered at the hearing.  The first publication shall not be more than
30 days and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the
date of the hearing.
   RECORD PLAN.  The copy of the final plan which contains the original
endorsements of the Planning Commission, and/or municipality, and which is
intended to be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   RESUBDIVISION.  Any re-platting or re-subdivision of land, limited to
changes in lot lines on the approved final plan or recorded plan as specified
in § 155.025 of this chapter. Other plattings shall be considered as
constituting a new subdivision of land.  See also SUBDIVISION. 
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT.  A lot extending between and having frontage on two
generally parallel streets, (excluding service streets) with vehicular access
solely from one street. 
   REVIEW.  Whenever the County Planning Commission possesses such review
jurisdiction, the action of review shall not limit the appropriate authorities
of the municipality in their ultimate and final decisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW).  The total width of any land reserved or dedicated as a
street, alley, crosswalk, or for other public or semi-public purposes.
   ROADWAY.  See CARTWAY.
   RUNOFF.  That part of precipitation which flows over the land. 
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, COMMUNITY.  A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a
temporary central treatment and/or disposal facility, generally serving a
neighborhood area. 
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, ON-LOT.  An individual sewage system which uses a
system of piping, tanks, or other facilities for collecting, treating and
disposing of sewage into a soil absorption area or spray field, into the waters
of the Commonwealth or by means of conveyance to another site for final
disposal.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, PUBLIC.  A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant. 
   SEDIMENT.  Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by water.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A covered watertight settling tank in which raw sewage is
biochemically changed into solid, liquid, and gaseous states to facilitate
further treatment and final disposal. 
   SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  An official officer for the municipality who
reviews permit applications and sewage facilities planning modules, issues
permits as authorized by Act 537 (sewage enforcement) and conducts
investigations and inspections that are necessary to implement the Act and the
regulations thereunder.
   SIGHT DISTANCE.  The required length of roadway visible to the driver of a
passenger vehicle at any given point on the roadway when the view is
unobstructed by traffic.  SIGHT DISTANCE measurements shall be made from a
point four and one-half feet above the centerline of the road surface to a
point one-half foot above the centerline of road surface. 
   SOIL PERCOLATION TEST.  A field test conducted to determine the suitability
of the soil for an on-lot sanitary sewage disposal system by measuring the
absorptive capacity of the soil at a given location and depth. 
   SOIL PROBE.  An excavation into the soil to allow for the evaluation of
individual soil horizons to support the establishment of soil suitability for
any lot where the installation of an on-lot sewage disposal system is
proposed. 
   SOLICITOR.  The solicitor appointed by the local municipality. 
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan for managing storm water runoff
within the county as required by the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864, (Act
167), and known as the Storm Water Management Act.
   STREET.  A strip of land, including the entire right-of-way not limited to
the cartway, intended for use by the general public as a means of vehicular and
pedestrian circulation to provide access to more than one lot.  The word STREET
includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, thoroughfare,
parkway, lane, alley, viaduct, and any other ways used or intended to be used
by vehicular traffic or pedestrians, whether public or private.  All streets,
of any nature, shall be constructed according to the design standards, as
included in §
155.056of this chapter, and approved in writing by the municipality and the
Municipal Engineer. STREET is further defined as follows:
      (1)   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street which, in addition to providing access
to abutting properties, intercepts minor streets to provide a route and gives
access to community facilities and/or other collector and major streets. 
(Streets in industrial and commercial subdivisions shall generally be
considered collector streets.)
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET.  A minor street intersecting another street at
one end and terminating at the other end by a permanent vehicular turn-around.
      (3)   HALF (PARTIAL) STREET.  A street, generally parallel and adjacent
to a property line, having a lesser right-of-way width than normally required
for improvement and use of the street.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  A minor street, parallel and adjacent to a
major street (but separated from it by a reserve strip) which provides access
to abutting properties and controls intersections with the major street.
      (5)   MAJOR STREET (MINOR ARTERIAL).  A street serving a large volume
comparatively high speed and long distance traffic, including all facilities
classified as main and secondary highways by the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation.
      (6)   MINOR STREET.  A street used primarily to provide access to
abutting properties.
      (7)   SERVICE STREET.  A minor right-of-way providing secondary vehicular
access to the side or rear of two or more properties.
   STRUCTURE.  Any man-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land. 
   SUBDIVIDER.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit (or agent
authorized thereby) which undertakes the subdivision of land, as defined by
these regulations as the owner, equitable owner (or agent authorized thereby)
of the land being subdivided.  SUBDIVIDER can also be defined as a land
developer. 
   SUBDIVISION.  The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED.  Where, in the judgment of the municipal engineer,
at least 90% (based on the cost of the required improvements for which
financial security was posted) of those improvements required as a condition
for final approval have been completed in accordance with the approved plan, so
that the project will be able to be used, occupied, or operated for its
intended use.
   SURVEYOR.  A licensed surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, COMMUNITY.  A system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to dwellings and other buildings, but
generally not confined to one neighborhood. 
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, ON-SITE.  A system for supplying and distributing
water to a single dwelling or other building from a source located on the same
lot.
   ZONING OFFICER.  The agent or official designated by the municipality to
administrate and enforce the Municipal Zoning Ordinance. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 155.015  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General.  Hereafter all plans for the subdivision or development of
land within the limits of the municipality shall be reviewed by the Municipal
Planning Commission and other municipal, state, or county officials as deemed
necessary and shall be approved or disapproved by the municipality in
accordance with procedures specified in this chapter.  The provisions and
requirements of this chapter shall apply to and control all land subdivisions
which have not been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds,
prior to the effective date of this chapter provided, however, that any change
in a recorded plan, except as noted in §
155.025, shall constitute a resubdivision and shall make said plan subject to
any and all of this chapter.  Any approval not processed as required hereafter,
shall be null and void unless it was made prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   (B)   Phasing development.  If a developer proposes a large-scale
development (ten acres or more) he or she may desire to construct said
development in steps or phases.  As the Pennsylvania Municipal Planning Code
(Act 247) allows for such phased developments, the municipality shall grant
preliminary approval for the entire project, or for that portion of the project
that can be completed within five years of preliminary or final plan approval. 
The developer shall then submit an application for final plan approval in
phases, as delineated on the preliminary plan.  As so submitted, site
improvements would also be constructed in phases and not all at once.  As each
phase is completed, the developer shall submit an application for final
approval of the next phase of development.  This process shall continue until
all phases of the project (development) are complete.  If, however, no
development takes place within five years from date of plan approval, the
developer shall comply with any change in local ordinances that have been
enacted since his or her preliminary plan was approved.  Applicants are urged
to consult the County Conservation District for assistance in determining the
most effective storm water management measures to be utilized on the
development site both during and after construction.  The applicant is also
urged to submit a sketch plan with a narrative description of these measures.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.016  SUBMISSION OF SKETCH PLAN (VOLUNTARY).
   (A)   Plan to be filed with municipality.  A sketch plan for the proposed
subdivision or land development is encouraged to be submitted to the Municipal
Secretary by the subdivider or developer or his or her representative
authorized in writing to submit the plan. 
   (B)   Number of copies.  Four legible black-line or blue-line paper prints
of the sketch plan shall be required. 
   (C)   Distribution of sketch plan.  The Municipal Secretary (or his or her
representatives) shall immediately (next business day) refer the sketch plans
to the following:
      (1)   One copy to the County Planning Commission;
      (2)   One copy to the Municipal Planning Commission (if any);
      (3)   One copy to the municipal officials; and 
      (4)   One copy to the Municipal Engineer.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.017  REVIEW OF SKETCH PLAN (VOLUNTARY).
   (A)   A sketch plan shall be considered as a submission for informal
discussion between the subdivider/developer and the municipality.  Submission
of a sketch plan shall not constitute official submission of a plan to the
municipality.
   (B)   Review by the Municipal Planning Commission: 
      (1)   Whenever a sketch plan has been submitted to the Municipal
Secretary, the Secretary shall notify and distribute all sketch plan materials
to the Municipal Planning Commission as required by §
155.016 of this subchapter.  The Chairman of the Municipal Planning Commission
shall then schedule a meeting to review the sketch plan within 30 days of its
receipt by the Municipal Planning Commission.
      (2)   (a)   Within ten calendar days after the meeting at which the
sketch plan is reviewed by the Municipal Planning Commission, the Commission
shall send written notice of the Municipal Planning  Commission’s comments,
including changes or modifications, if any, required or recommended that it
deems necessary or advisable, to the following:
            1.   All municipal officials;
            2.   The County Planning Commission; and
            3.   The subdivider/developer or his or her agent.
         (b)   In addition, the Municipal Planning Commission shall forward to
the municipal officials all copies of reports received from the County Planning
Commission. 
      (3)    If no Municipal Planning Commission or committee exists at the
time of sketch plan submission, then the municipal officials shall act in lieu
of this Commission, following each of the above cited subsections. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.018  SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Plan to file with the municipality.  Copies of the preliminary plan
and all required supporting data (Department of Environmental Protection,
PennDOT, and County Conservation District) shall be officially submitted to the
Municipal Secretary by the subdivider/developer or his or her representative
authorized in writing to submit the plan.
   (B)   Submission of preliminary plan shall comprise. 
      (1)   Three completed copies of the application for review of preliminary
subdivision plan;
      (2)   Eight legible black-line or blue-line paper prints of the
preliminary plan which shall fully comply with the requirements of §
155.041 of this chapter.  Nine copies required  if a state road abuts or
traverses subdivision;
      (3)   Four completed copies of the DEP Sewage Facilities Planning Module
for Land Development or Exemption Card and a DEP letter of approval for same
whenever on-lot sewage disposal is proposed; and
      (4)   Three copies of all other required information (DEP, County
Conservation District, PennDOT).
   (C)   Filing fee.  The Municipal Secretary (or his or her representative)
shall collect a filing fee as established by the municipality, by resolution,
for all subdivisions and land developments.  Fees shall be charged in order to
cover the costs of examining plans and other expenses incidental to the
approval of subdivisions/ developments.  The subdivider/developer shall pay the
fee at the time of application for review of a preliminary plan.
   (D)   Distribution of preliminary plan.  The Municipal Secretary (or his or
her representative) shall immediately (next business day) refer the preliminary
plan, after all required fees have been collected, to the following:
      (1)   One copy of the plan to the Municipal Planning Commission,
including one copy of the application form and other required reports;
      (2)   One copy of the plan to the County Planning Commission and one copy
of all required supporting documents;
      (3)    One copy of the plan to the municipal officials (plus municipal
file copy) including one copy of the application form and other required
reports;
      (4)   One copy of the plan and sewage facilities planning module to the
Municipal Engineer;
      (5)   One copy of the plan to the Municipal Zoning Officer, if any;
      (6)   One copy of the plan to the District Office of PA DOT (if
applicable);
      (7)   One copy of the plan to the Municipal Water Authority (if
applicable); and
      (8)   One copy of the plan to the Municipal Sewer Authority (if
applicable). 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.019  REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Review by the Municipal Engineer.  The Municipal Engineer shall review
the preliminary plan to determine its conformance to the municipal subdivision
regulations.  The Municipal Engineer may recommend changes, alterations or
modifications, as he or she may deem necessary.  The report of the Municipal
Engineer shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Municipal Planning
Commission prior to the regularly scheduled or special meeting at which the
preliminary plan is to be considered by the Municipal Planning Commission.  The
report shall include an estimate of the cost of construction of all
improvements as required by this chapter.  In the event that no Municipal
Planning Commission exists, then all information requested above shall be sent
to the municipal officials.
   (B)   Review by the Municipal Zoning Officer.  The Municipal Zoning Officer
shall review the preliminary plan to determine its conformance to the Municipal
Zoning Ordinance.  The Zoning Officer shall check all zoning data as required
to be shown under §
155.041 of this chapter, to determine if information shown is in accordance
with latest amendments to the Zoning Ordinance.  The report from the Municipal
Zoning Officer as to the accuracy of the information shown shall be submitted
to the Municipal Planning Commission prior to the regularly scheduled or
special meeting at which the preliminary plan is to be considered by the
Planning Commission.  In the event no Municipal Planning Commission exists,
then all requested information stated above shall be sent to the municipal
officials.
   (C)   Review by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PA DOT).  If
a proposed subdivision abuts or is traversed by a state road, the Municipal
Secretary shall require one additional copy of the preliminary plan and shall
transmit this copy to the district office of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation for its review and comments.
   (D)   Review by the Municipal Planning Commission.
      (1)   Whenever a preliminary plan has been submitted to the Municipal
Secretary, the Secretary shall notify and distribute all preliminary plan
materials to the Municipal Planning Commission as required by §
155.016 of this subchapter.  The Chairman of the Municipal Planning Commission
shall then schedule a meeting to review the Preliminary Plan within 30 days of
its receipt by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   No official action shall be taken by the municipal Planning
Commission with respect to a preliminary plan until the Commission has received
the written report of the County Planning Commission and the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation, provided, however, that if these reports are not
received within 30 days after transmittal to these agencies then the Municipal
Planning Commission may officially act without having received and considered
such report.  In any event, the Municipal Planning Commission shall take
official action no later than five days after the expiration of the  aforesaid
30-day period.
      (3)   During review of the preliminary plan, the Municipal Planning
Commission shall consider the written reports of the Municipal Engineer and the
Municipal Zoning Officer, if any, before making its final decision.
      (4)   (a)   If review by the Municipal Planning Commission is favorable,
or unfavorable because the requirements of this chapter have not been met, or
the Municipal Planning Commission deems changes or modifications of the plan
submitted are advisable or necessary, such decision and the reasons therefore
(citing specific provisions of this chapter) shall be given in written form by
the Municipal Planning Commission within eight days after the meeting at which
the preliminary plan is reviewed to the following:
            1.   All municipal officials;
            2.   The County Planning Commission; and
            3.   The subdivider/developer or his or her agent.
         (b)   In addition, the Municipal Planning Commission shall forward to
the municipal officials copies of all reports received from the County Planning
Commission, Department of Transportation, Municipal Zoning Officer and
Municipal Engineer. 
   (E)   Review by the municipal officials.
      (1)   When a preliminary plan has been officially referred to the
municipal officials by the Municipal Planning Commission together with its
recommendation, such plan shall be reviewed at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the municipal officials, or at the
discretion of the Chairman/President at a special meeting, which may be held
prior thereto.
      (2)   In any event, the municipal officials shall render their decision
and communicate it to the applicant no later than 90 days following the date of
the regular meeting of the municipality or the Municipal Planning Commission
(whichever first reviews the application) next following the date the
application is filed.  Failure of the municipal officials to render a decision
and communicate it to the applicant within the time and in the manner required
(as outlined in subsection (4) below) shall be deemed an approval unless the
applicant has agreed, in writing, to an extension of time.
      (3)   The municipal officials shall review the preliminary plan and the
written reports and recommendations thereon of the Municipal Planning
Commission, the County Planning Commission, (if same has been received), the
Municipal Engineer, and by any other interested parties of the municipality to
determine the preliminary plan conformance to the standards contained in this
chapter. Prior to these reports and recommendations, the municipal officials
may hold a public hearing thereon after public notice to receive comments from
the general public.  After all desired input is received, the municipal
officials may require or recommend such changes and modifications as they shall
deem necessary or advisable in the public interest.
      (4)   (a)   The action of the municipal officials, either approving or
disapproving the preliminary plan,  shall be noted with the date of such action
and the signature of the Chairman/President on two sets of plans.  The findings
and reasons upon which the action is based and citing provisions of the statute
or ordinance relied upon shall be stated in  the minutes and in writing. 
Subject to the requirements of subsection (2) above, within 15 days after the
meeting at which the preliminary plan is reviewed, the Secretary of the
municipality shall send written notice of the findings, action taken, and
reasons thereof to the following:
            1.   The subdivider/developer or his or her agent;
            2.   The Municipal Planning Commission; and
            3.   The County Planning Commission.
         (b)   One copy of the plan shall be maintained for permanent records
of the municipality and one copy shall be sent to the subdivider/developer or
his or her agent.
      (5)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall not constitute acceptance of
a subdivision for recording.  Approval is only an expression of approval of a
general plan to be used in preparing the final subdivision plan for final
approval and recording upon fulfillment of all requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   When a preliminary plan has been approved or approved subject to
conditions acceptable to the applicant, no subsequent change or amendment in
the zoning, subdivision, or other governing ordinance or plan shall be applied
to affect adversely the right of the applicant to commence and to complete any
aspect of the approved development in accordance with the terms of such
approval within five years from such approval.
   (F)   Review by water and/or sewer authority. The local water and/or sewer
authority having jurisdiction in the area of the proposed subdivision shall
review the preliminary plan to determine its conformance with the authority’s
water and/or sewer requirements.  It is recommended that the subdivider review
the authority’s water and/or sewer requirements prior to the preparation of the
preliminary plan.  This review shall be conducted at the expense of the
subdivider.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.020  SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Within four years of the municipal officials’ approval of the
preliminary plan, a final plan should be officially submitted to the
municipality.  However, an extension of time may be granted by the municipality
upon written request.  Final plans submitted after this expiration of time for
which no time extension has been granted may be considered as a new preliminary
plan.
   (B)   The final plan shall conform in all respects to the preliminary plan
as previously reviewed by the Municipal Planning Commission and the municipal
officials and shall incorporate all modifications required by the municipality
in its review of the preliminary plan. 
   (C)   The municipality may permit submission of the final plan in sections,
or phases, each covering a reasonable portion of the entire proposed
subdivision as shown on the reviewed preliminary plan.
      (1)   Plans to be filed with the municipal officials.  Copies of the
final plan and all required supporting data shall be officially submitted to
the Municipal Secretary by the subdivider/developer or his or her
representative authorized in writing to submit the plan. 
      (2)   Official submission of final plan shall comprise of: 
         (a)   Three completed copies of the application for review of final
subdivision plan;
         (b)   Eight legible black-line or blue-line paper prints and two
prints on Mylar of  the final  plan which shall fully comply with §
155.042 of this chapter;
         (c)   Two copies of all other required information including the
following, if applicable:
            1.   All offers of dedication and covenants governing the
reservation and maintenance of undedicated open space which shall bear the
certificate of approval of the Solicitor of the municipality as to their legal
sufficiency.
            2.   Such private deed restrictions, including building reserve
lines, as may be imposed upon the property as a condition of sale together with
a statement of restrictions previously imposed which may affect the title of
the land being subdivided.
            3.   Whenever a subdivider proposes to establish a street which is
not offered for dedication to public use, the Municipal Planning Commission or
municipal officials may require the subdivider to submit, and also to record
with the municipality on behalf of his or her heirs, successors and assigns and
approved by the Solicitor of the municipality and which shall establish the
conditions under which the street may later be offered for dedication and shall
stipulate, among other things, the following:
                 A.   The street shall conform to municipal specifications or
that the owners of the  abutting lots shall include with the offer or
dedication sufficient money, as estimated by the Municipal Engineer, to restore
the street to conformance with the municipal specifications;
               B.   An offer to dedicate the street shall be made only for the
street as a whole;
               C.   The method of assessing repair costs be stipulated; and
               D.   Agreement by the owners of 5l% of the front footage thereon
shall be binding on the owners of the remaining lots.
            4.   Whenever approval by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, the County Conservation District, or the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation is required for the water supply or sanitary
sewage disposal system(s), erosion and sedimentation control, or a highway
access permit for a proposed subdivision, the Municipal Planning Commission or
municipal officials shall require that two copies of such certification of
approval shall be submitted with the final plan.
      (3)   Filing fees.  The subdivider/developer shall pay a filing fee for
the review of a final plan.  This fee shall be established by the municipality
by resolution.  There shall be no refund or credit of any portion of the fee
should the subdivider/developer fail to receive final approval.
      (4)   Distribution of final plan.  The final plan shall be distributed in
accordance with the requirements of §
155.018 of this subchapter for preliminary plan.  In addition, the Municipal
Secretary shall retain one Mylar print of the final plan for safe-keeping in
the municipal files.  The other Mylar print shall be given to the subdivider/
developer for filing with the County Recorder of Deeds. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.021  REVIEW OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Review by the Municipal Engineer.  The final plan shall be reviewed
and a written report submitted as required under §
155.019 of this subchapter for preliminary plans.
   (B)   Review by the Municipal Zoning Officer (if applicable).  The final
plan shall be reviewed and a written report submitted by the Municipal Zoning
Officer as required under §
155.019 of this subchapter for preliminary plans.
   (C)   Review by the Municipal Planning Commission.  The final plan shall be
reviewed in accordance with the procedure required under §
155.019 of this subchapter for preliminary plans.  In addition:
      (1)   If all the requirements of this chapter are met and the review is
favorable, the Planning Commission shall authorize its Chairman, with the
Secretary so attesting, to endorse and seal the  final plan “Reviewed and
Approved by the Municipal Planning Commission,: together with the date of such
action.
      (2)   The final plan with the Municipal Planning Commission’s
endorsement, shall be forwarded to the municipal officials. 
   (D)   Review by the municipal officials.  The final plan shall be reviewed
in accordance with the procedures as required under §
155.019 of this subchapter for preliminary plan.  In addition:
      (1)   Before acting on a final plan, the municipal officials may arrange
for a public hearing.  The  public hearing may be held by the municipal
officials after the final plan has been submitted to the municipality and
before the review required by divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section.  If a
public hearing has been held upon a preliminary plan, no public hearing is
required unless the final plan departs  substantially from the preliminary
plan. 
      (2)   If the municipal officials approve the final plan, the final plan
shall be signed by the Chairman/President and the Secretary, together with the
date of action and municipal seal.
      (3)   A performance guarantee or a certificate of  satisfactory
installation, as required under §
155.023 of this subchapter, shall be required before the final plan is released
for recording.
      (4)   The final plan with the municipal officials’ approval and the
municipal seal, shall be forwarded to the subdivider for recording.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.022  RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   After approval by the municipal officials and the Municipal Planning
Commission, and with all endorsements indicated on the final plan, the
subdivider shall record his or her plan.  No subdivision plan shall be legally
recorded unless it bears the municipal approval and seal.  This action shall
constitute the changing of the final plan to the record plan. 
   (B)   After the final plan has been approved by the appropriate municipal
authorities, the municipal officials shall require that the developer supply
one reproducible copy of the final plan, as approved, for their permanent
files. 
   (C)   The record plan shall be a clear and legible black-line print on
Mylar.
   (D)   The subdivider shall file the record plan with the County Recorder of
Deeds within 90 days of the date of final approval by the municipality.  If the
subdivider fails to record the record plan within such period, the action of
the municipal officials and Municipal Planning Commission shall be null and
void unless an extension of time is granted in writing by the municipality
after written request to do so by the subdivider.
   (E)   See Appendix J of Ordinance 65 for the subdivision recording
requirements as per the Office of the Recorder of Deeds. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.023  PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   Prior to final approval of the final plan, the subdivider shall guarantee
the installation of all required improvements by one of the following methods:
   (A)   By installing the improvements required by §§
155.075 through
155.077 of this chapter to the satisfaction of the Municipal Engineer and the
municipal officials and obtaining a certificate from the Municipal Engineer
that all improvements have been installed in accordance with the standards and
requirements contained in this chapter or required by the municipality.
   (B)   In lieu of the completion of any improvements required as a condition
for the final approval of a plan, the applicant or subdivider shall provide for
deposit with the municipality of financial security in an amount sufficient to
cover the costs of any improvements or common amenities, including, but not
limited to, roads, storm water detention and/or retention basins and other
related drainage facilities, recreational facilities, open space improvements,
or buffer or screen plantings which may be required. When requested by the
developer, in order to facilitate financing, the municipality shall furnish the
developer with a signed copy of a resolution indicating approval of the final
plan contingent upon the developer obtaining a satisfactory financial
security.  The final plan or record plan shall not be signed nor recorded until
the financial improvements agreement is executed.  The resolution or letter of
contingent approval shall expire and be deemed to be revoked if the financial
security agreement is not executed within 90 days unless a written extension is
granted by the municipality; such extension shall not be unreasonably withheld
and shall be placed in writing at the request of the developer.  Without
limitation as to other types of financial security which the municipality may
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the following shall
be deemed acceptable financial security for the purpose of this section:
      (1)   Federal or Commonwealth chartered lending institution irrevocable
letters of credit and restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending
institutions.  Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company
or federal or Commonwealth chartered lending institution chosen by the party
posting the financial security, provided said bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business within the Commonwealth.
      (2)   Such bond, or other security shall provide for, and secure to the
public, the completion of any improvements which may be required on or before
the date fixed in the formal action of approval or accompanying agreement for
completion of the improvements. 
      (3)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer.  Annually, the municipality may adjust the amount of the financial
security by comparing the actual cost of the improvements which have been
completed and the  estimated cost for the completion of the remaining
improvements as of the expiration of the 90th day after either the original
date scheduled for completion or a rescheduled date of completion.  Subsequent
to said adjustment, the municipality may require the developer to post
additional security in order to assure that the financial security equals said
110%.  Any additional security shall be posted by the developer in accordance
with this subsection.  The amount of financial security required shall be based
upon an estimate of the cost of completion of  the required improvements,
submitted by an applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer
licensed as such in this Commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a
fair and reasonable estimate of such cost.  The municipality, upon the
recommendation of the Municipal Engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate
for good cause shown.  If the applicant or developer and the municipality are
unable to agree upon an estimate, then the estimate shall be recalculated and
recertified by another professional engineer licensed as such in this
Commonwealth and chosen mutually by the municipality and the applicant or
developer.  The estimate certified by the third engineer shall be presumed fair
and reasonable and shall be the final estimate.  In the event that a third
engineer is so chosen, fees for the services of said engineer shall be paid
equally by the municipality and the applicant or developer.
      (4)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date from
posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of
completing the required improvements as re-established on or about the
expiration of the preceding one year period by using the above bidding
procedure. 
      (5)   In the case where development is projected over a period of years,
the municipality may authorize submission of final plans by section or stages
of development subject to such requirements or guarantees as to improvements in
future sections or stage of development as it finds essential for the
protection of any finally approved section of the development. 
      (6)   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the municipality to release or
authorize the release, from time to time, such portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work.  Such requests shall be in writing, addressed to the municipality, and
the municipality shall have 45 days from receipt of such request within which
to allow the Municipal Engineer to certify, in  writing, to the municipality
that such portion of the work upon the improvements has been completed in
accordance with the approved plan.  Upon such certification, the municipality
shall authorize release by the bonding company or lending institution of an
amount as estimated by the Municipal Engineer fairly representing the value of
the improvements completed, or if the municipality fails to act within said 45-
day period, the municipality shall be deemed to have approved the release of
funds, as requested.  The municipality may, prior to final release at the time
of completion and certification by its Engineer,  require retention of 10% of
the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
      (7)   Where the municipality accepts dedication of all or some of the
required improvements following completion, the municipality may require the
posting of financial security to secure structural integrity of said
improvements, as well as the functioning of said improvements in accordance
with the design and specifications as depicted on the final plan for a term not
to exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication.  Said financial
securities shall be of the same type as otherwise required in this section with
regard to installation of such improvements, and the amount of the financial
security shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of said
improvements.
      (8)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both, along with
apparatus or facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the
jurisdiction and pursuant to the rules and regulations of a public utility or
municipal authority separate and distinct from the municipality, financial
security to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority and shall not be included within the financial security as otherwise
required by this section.
      (9)   If financial security has been provided (in lieu of completed
improvements), the issuance of building, grading, or occupancy permits for any
building or buildings to be erected shall not be withheld provided:
         (a)   The improvement of streets providing access to and from existing
public roads to such  building(s) to a mud-free or otherwise permanently
passable condition is complete; and
         (b)   All other improvements, as depicted on the approved plan, either
upon the lot or lots, or beyond the lot or lots in question if such
improvements are necessary for the reasonable use of or occupancy of the
building(s) have been completed. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.024  RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and appropriate
improvements, the developer shall notify the municipality, in writing, by
certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid improvements
and the municipality shall send a copy thereof to the Municipal Engineer.  The
municipal officials shall, within ten days after receipt of such notice, direct
and authorize the Municipal Engineer to inspect all of the aforesaid
improvements.  The Municipal Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report, in
writing, with the municipality, and shall promptly mail a copy of the same to
the developer by certified mail.  The report shall be made and mailed within 30
days after receipt by the Municipal Engineer of the aforesaid authorization
from the municipal officials; said report shall be detailed and shall indicate
approval or rejection of said improvements, either in whole or in part, and if
said improvements, or any portion thereof, shall not be approved or shall be
rejected by the Municipal Engineer, said report shall contain a statement of
reasons for such non-approval or rejection.
   (B)   The municipality shall notify the developer within 15 days of receipt
of the Engineer’s report, in writing, by certified or registered mail of their
action.
   (C)   If the municipality or the Municipal Engineer fail to comply with the
time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be deemed to
have been approved and the developer shall be released from all liability
pursuant to his or her performance guarantee. 
   (D)   If any portion of the said improvements shall not be approved or shall
be rejected by the municipal officials, the developer shall proceed to complete
the same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as outlined
herein, shall be followed. 
   (E)   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise, any
determination of the municipality or the Municipal Engineer.
   (F)   Where herein reference is made to the Municipal Engineer, he or she
shall be a duly registered professional engineer employed by the municipality
or engaged as a consultant thereto.
   (G)   The municipality may prescribe that the applicant shall reimburse the
municipality for the reasonable and necessary expense incurred for the
inspection of improvements.  Such reimbursement shall be based upon a schedule
established by ordinance or resolution.  Such expense shall be reasonable and
in accordance with the ordinary and customary fees charged by the Municipal
Engineer and/or consultant for work performed for similar services in the
community, but in no event shall the fees exceed the rate or cost charged by
the engineer or consultant to the municipality when fees are not reimbursed or
otherwise imposed on applicants.
      (1)   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such expense
in connection with the inspection of improvements, the applicant shall, within
ten working days of the date of billing, notify the municipality that such
expenses are disputed as unreasonable or unnecessary, in which case the
municipality shall not delay or disapprove a subdivision or land development
application or any approval or permit related to development due to the
applicant’s request over disputed engineer expenses.
      (2)   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the municipality and
the applicant cannot agree on the amount of expenses which are reasonable and
necessary, then the applicant and municipality shall jointly, by mutual
agreement, appoint another professional engineer licensed as such in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to review the said  expenses and make a
determination as to the amount thereof which is reasonable and necessary. 
      (3)   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence and
review such documentation as the professional engineer in his or her sole
opinion deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date.  The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
      (4)   In the event that the municipality and applicant cannot agree upon
the professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing date,
then, upon application of either party, the President Judge of the Court of
Common Pleas of the judicial district in which the municipality is located (or
if at the time there be no President Judge, then the senior active judge then
sitting) shall appoint such engineer, who, in that case, shall be neither the
municipal engineer nor any professional engineer who has been retained by, or
performed services for, the municipality or the applicant within the preceding
five years. 
      (5)   The fee of the appointed professional engineer for determining the
reasonable and necessary expenses shall be paid by the applicant if the amount
of payment required in the decision is equal to or  greater than the original
bill.  If the amount of payment required in the decision is less than the
original bill by $l,000 or more, the municipality shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer, but otherwise the municipality and the applicant shall
each pay one-half of the fee of the appointed professional engineer.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.025  RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   Any revision or resubdivision of land which includes changes to a recorded
plan shall be considered a subdivision and shall comply with all regulations of
this chapter, except that:
   (A)   Lot lines may be changed from those shown on a recorded plan, provided
that in making such changes.
      (1)   No lot or tract of land shall be created or sold that is smaller
than the minimum dimensions required by the Municipal Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Easements or rights-of-way reserved for drainage shall not be
changed.
      (3)   Street locations and block sizes shall not be changed.
      (4)   No lot shall be created which does not abut an existing or proposed
street.
   (B)   In every case wherein lot lines are changed as permitted by the above,
the subdivider shall prepare a new record plan and shall submit the record plan
to the municipality for the endorsements of the Municipal Planning Commission
and Municipal Zoning officer (the new record plan shall specifically identify
the previous record plan superseded and shall also contain the record reference
if the previous record plan has been recorded).  The subdivider shall then
record the new plan in accordance with §
155.022 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.026  DEDICATION AND MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   All streets, parks, or other improvements shown on the subdivision plan,
recorded or otherwise, shall be deemed to be private until such time as the
same has been offered for dedication to the municipality and accepted by
resolution of the municipal officials.  Where the municipality accepts
dedication of all or some of the required improvements following completion,
the municipality may require the posting of financial security to secure
structural integrity of said improvements as well as the functioning of said
improvements in accordance with the design and specifications as depicted on
the final plan for a term not to exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance
of dedication.  Said financial security shall be of the same type as otherwise
required in this chapter with regard to installation of such improvements, and
the amount of the financial security shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of
installation of said improvements.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.040  SKETCH PLAN (VOLUNTARY).
   (A)   The sketch plan of a proposed subdivision shall be clearly and legibly
drawn, preferably to scale.
   (B)   The sketch plan should contain at least the following information, but
not necessarily showing precise dimensions.
      (1)   Tract boundaries;
      (2)   Name of the municipality in which the subdivision is located and a
general location map;
      (3)   Name of proposed subdivision or other identifying title;
      (4)   Type of development proposed for the subdivision (residential,
commercial, industrial and the like); and
      (5)   General street and lot layout.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.041  PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision shall be clearly and
legibly drawn to an appropriate scale adequate to illustrate all necessary
details.  Maximum size of plan shall not exceed 18" x 24".
   (B)   If the preliminary plan requires more than one sheet, a key diagram
showing relative location of the several sections shall be drawn on each sheet.
   (C)   The preliminary plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Date, including the month, day, and year that the preliminary plan
was completed and the month, day, and year that the preliminary plan was
revised, for each revision;
      (2)   Name of proposed development;
      (3)   Name of recorded owner and subdivider; 
      (4)   Name, address, license number, and seal of the registered surveyor
responsible for the subdivision plan;
      (5)   Names of all owners of all abutting unplatted land and the names of
all abutting subdivisions, if any,  with the book and page number where
recorded; 
      (6)   A key map for the purpose of locating the property being subdivided
drawn at a scale not less than one inch equals 2,000 feet and showing the
relation of the property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining
property and to all streets, roads, municipal boundaries, zoning districts,
water courses, and any areas subject to flooding;
      (7)   Total tract boundaries of the property being subdivided showing
bearings and distances and a statement of total acreage of the property;
      (8)   Include all of the following zoning data:
         (a)   Existing municipal zoning regulations, including district
designations, requirements for lot sizes and front yards, and any zoning
district boundary lines traversing the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Any changes in the existing zoning to be requested by the
subdivider;
         (c)   Any municipal regulations other than zoning governing lot size
and/or front yard requirements.
      (9)   Contour lines at vertical intervals not more than five feet for
land with average natural slope  of 4% or less and at intervals of not more
than 20 feet for land with average natural slope exceeding 4%;
      (10)   Locations and elevation of the data to which contour elevations
refer; where reasonable  practicable, datum used shall be a known and
established bench mark.  It is suggested that USC&G datum be used where
possible;
      (11)   All existing sewer lines, water lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone utility lines,  culverts, bridges, railroads, quarries, strip mines,
water courses, flood plain areas, and other significant man-made or natural
features within the proposed subdivision and 50 feet beyond the boundaries of
the proposed subdivision;
      (12)   All existing buildings or other structures and the approximate
location of all existing tree masses, rock out-crops, water courses within the
proposed subdivision or other significant features;
      (13)   All existing streets on the official map or plans of the
municipality (including unpaved streets), including streets of record (recorded
but not constructed), easements and rights-of-way, including names, right-of-
way widths, cartway (pavement) widths and approximate grades within the
subdivision or within 400 feet of any part of the tract;
      (14)   The full plan of proposed development, including: 
         (a)   Location and width of all streets, easements, and rights-of-way,
with a statement of any conditions governing their use;
         (b)   Suggested street names and utility easement locations;
         (c)   Building reserve (setback) lines along each street;
         (d)   Lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths of a foot;
         (e)   Lot numbers and statement of number of lots and parcels;
         (f)   A statement of the intended use of all non-residential lots and
parcels;
         (g)   Sanitary and/or storm sewers (and other drainage facilities)
with the size and material  of each indicated, and any proposed connections
with existing facilities;
         (h)   Parks, playgrounds, and other areas proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public use with any conditions governing such use; and
         (i)   The following data shall be shown for the cartway right-of-way
and, if required, the  ultimate right-of-way, for existing, recorded (except
those to be vacated), and proposed streets within or abutting the property to
be subdivided:  The length and width (in feet to the nearest hundredth of a
foot) of all straight lines and radii of curved lines.  The length of all arcs
(in feet, to the nearest hundredths of a foot) and the central angle (in
degrees, minutes and seconds).
      (15)   Any trees to remain in the street ROW shall be indicated;
      (16)   If on-lot sewage disposal is proposed, the following information
shall be included:
         (a)   Location of all soil probes and percolation test holes;
         (b)   Soil types;
         (c)   Suitable primary system sites with site slope identified; and
         (d)   Suitable replacement system sites with provisions for their
protection and reservation, if required by Department of Environmental
Protection regulations.  Identify slope.
      (17)   The following storm water management information shall be
included:
         (a)   Runoff calculations for the proposed project except where the
watershed storm water  management plan (if any) has determined no hydrologic
effect will occur downstream; 
         (b)   A description of proposed storm water control measures and
devices;
         (c)   Maps showing:
            1. The location of the proposed subdivision, land development, or
mobile home park within the designated watershed (consult the County Planning
Commission or Conservation District for the appropriate Stormwater Management
Plan);
            2.   The 100-year flood plain for pre- and post-development
conditions; 
            3.   Streams, swales, and drainage patterns (existing and
proposed);
            4.   Storm water management control measures and devices (temporary
and permanent); 
            5.   Areas subject to special deed restrictions affecting storm
water management;
            6.   Contours of existing and proposed development elevations at
intervals of five feet.  In areas of steep slopes (greater than l5%), 20-foot
contour intervals may be used; and
            7.   Show floodway boundaries if the subdivision is located in a
detailed FEMA study area or included on a FEMA insurance rate map.
   (D)   The preliminary plan shall be accompanied by the following
supplementary data as applicable:
      (1)   (a)   Typical street cross-section drawing(s) for all proposed
streets.  Cross-section drawings may be shown on either the preliminary plan or
on separate profile sheets. 
         (b)   Tentative profiles along the street centerline or along the top
of curb for both sides of each proposed street shall be shown.  Such profiles
shall show existing and proposed grades at one of the following sets of scales:
            1.   One inch equals ten feet horizontal, one inch equals two feet
vertical;
            2.   One inch equals 20 feet horizontal and one inch equals four
feet vertical;
            3.   One inch equals 40 feet horizontal and one inch equals eight
feet vertical; and
            4.   One inch equals 50 feet horizontal, and one inch equals ten
feet vertical.
      (2)   In lieu of the separate profile sheets required, the tentative
finished cartway edge or top of curb grades for both sides of each street may
be labeled on the preliminary plan.
      (3)   Where deemed necessary by the Municipal Planning Commission or the
municipal officials, a plan for the surface drainage of the tract to be
subdivided shall be shown.  Such plan shall include storm water runoff
calculations for the entire property being subdivided and shall show the
proposed method, subject to municipal approval, of accommodating the
anticipated runoff.
      (4)   Preliminary designs of any bridges or culverts  which may be
required.  Such designs shall meet all applicable requirements of the
Department of  Environmental Protection and/or the Pennsylvania  Department of
Transportation.  Calculations for waterway opening shall be included.  All
designs shall be subject to approval by the municipality. 
      (5)   Where a preliminary plan shows the proposed subdivision of only a
part of the subdivider’s total property, a sketch shall be required showing the
prospective street system in the remainder of the property so that the street
system in the submitted portion shall be considered in relation to future
connections with the unsubmitted portion.  To prevent undue hardship in the
case of extremely large properties, the Municipal Planning Commission or
municipal officials may, based on existing natural or man-made features,
delimit the area for which a prospective street system shall be sketched. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.042  FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   The final plan shall be of a size drawn to scale, and show all
information as required for preliminary plans under §
155.041 of this subchapter.  In addition, the final plan shall show the
following:
      (1)   Name of recorded owner (and subdivider) of the tract, and the
source(s) of title to the land being subdivided, as shown by the County
Recorder of Deeds;
      (2)   The total tract boundary lines of the area being subdivided with
accurate distances to hundredths of foot and bearings to one-quarter of a
minute.  These boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field,
which shall be balanced and close with an error of closure not to exceed one 
foot in 10,000 feet; provided, however, that the boundary(s) adjoining
additional unplotted land of the subdivider (for example, between separately
submitted final plan sections) are not required to be based upon field survey,
and may be calculated.  The location of all boundary line (perimeter) monuments
shall be indicated, along with a statement of the total area of the property
being subdivided.  Also, there shall be at least one elevation bench mark
recorded for each subdivision.  In addition, the surveyor shall certify, to the
accuracy of the survey, the drawn plan, and the placement of the monuments;
      (3)   The name (or number) and cartway width and lines of all existing
public streets and the name and location of all other roads within the
property;
      (4)   The following data shall be shown for the cartway and, if required,
the right-of-way, for existing, recorded (except those to be vacated), and
proposed streets within or abutting the property to be subdivided:  The length
and width (in feet to the nearest hundredth of a foot) of all straight lines
and radii of curved lines.  The length of all arcs (in feet, to the nearest
hundredths of a foot) and the central angle (in degrees, minutes and seconds); 
      (5)   All straight lot lines shall be dimensional (in feet, to the
nearest hundredths of a foot) and all internal angles within lot lines shall be
designated (in degrees, minutes, and seconds).  Curved lot lines shall show
length of arc (in feet, to the nearest hundredths of a foot) and the central
angle (in degrees, minutes and seconds);
      (6)   A statement of the intended use of all non-residential lots, with
reference to restrictions of  any type which exist or will exist as covenants
in the deed for the lots contained in the subdivision and, if covenants are
recorded, including the book and page number;
      (7)   The proposed building reserve (setback) line for each lot, or the
proposed placement of each  building; 
      (8)   The location (and elevation, if established) of all existing and
proposed required street monuments;
      (9)   All easements of rights-of-way where provided for or owned by
public services and any limitations on such easements or rights-of-way. 
Rights-of-way shall be shown and accurately identified on the plan, and
easements shall either be shown or specifically described on the plan. 
Easements should be located in cooperation with the appropriate public
utilities;
      (10)   Locations, size, and invert elevations of all sanitary and/or
storm sewers and location of all manholes, inlets and culverts (this data may
be submitted as a separate plan);
      (11)   If the subdivision proposes a new street intersection with a state
traffic route, the intersection’s highway occupancy permit number(s) shall be
indicated for all such intersections;
      (12)   A Certification of ownership, acknowledgment of plan, and offer of
dedication shall be lettered on the plan, and shall be duly acknowledged and
signed by the owner(s) of the property, and notarized; 
      (13)   A blank space for approval of the plan by the municipal officials
and by the Municipal Planning Commission (if any);
      (14)   A blank space measuring three and one-half inches square shall be
left, preferably adjacent to the municipal certification, in which the
endorsement stamp of the County Planning Commission may be applied, if
required;
      (15)   A blank space measuring three inches square shall be left along
the lower edge of the sheet, in order that the Recorder of Deeds may
acknowledge receipt of the plan when it is presented; and
      (16)   The following storm water management information shall be
included:
         (a)   All information pertaining to storm water management from the
preliminary plan along with any changes;
         (b)   All required permits (or letters of intent to issue such permits
pending final municipal approval) from the Department of Environmental
Protection, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Public Utility
Commission, or any other agency if appropriate;
         (c)   All deed restrictions, easements and rights-of-way;
         (d)   The ownership and maintenance responsibilities for storm water
management control devices.  The identity of the responsible individual
corporation, association, or other specific entity and the specific maintenance
responsibility must be detailed;
         (e)   Where the applicant is proposing the dedication of permanent
storm water management control facilities to the municipality, such request
must include:
            1.   Easements to all facilities; and
            2.   A financial guarantee (acceptable to the municipality) to
insure that the control facilities are property installed and functioning
satisfactorily.
   (B)   The final plan shall be accompanied by such applicable supplementary
data as is required in §
155.041 of this subchapter in addition to profile sheets for all proposed
streets within the tract.  Such profiles shall show at least the following
information, properly labeled:
      (1)   Existing (natural) profiles along both cartway edges or along the
centerline of each street;
      (2)   Proposed finished grade of the centerline, and proposed finished
grade at the top of both curbs, or proposed finished grade at both cartway
pavement edges;
      (3)   The length of all vertical curves; and
      (4)   Existing and proposed sanitary sewer mains and manholes, storm
sewer mains, inlets, manholes, and culverts and existing or proposed water
mains. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.043  MINOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENTS AND NON-BUILDING LOTS.
   (A)   Definition of minor subdivision. 
      (1)   In the case of any proposed subdivision, land development, or other
division of land, the plan requirements of this chapter may be waived and the
proposal deemed to be a minor subdivision/development, or non-building lot,
provided that the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The proposal does not involve the extension of any public
facilities including:
            1.   New streets;
            2.   Paving or other improvements;
            3.   New or improved water lines, sewer lines, on-lot sewage
disposal system sites, or storm drainage lines; and
            4.   New or improved public facilities or services. 
         (b)   The proposal does not adversely affect the natural resources of
the municipality, or have the potential to adversely affect the health or
safety of the residents of the municipality;
         (c)   The proposal does not adversely affect adjoining property;
         (d)   The proposal does not adversely affect the present or future
development of the Municipality; and
         (e)   The proposal is compatible with the existing Zoning Ordinance
(if any). 
      (2)   If the subdivision or land development contains not more than three
lots, sites, or other divisions of land, and such subdivision or land
development meets with all of the five criteria as stated above, then the
municipal officials shall have the authority, at their discretion, to classify
such subdivision or land development as “minor” provided that the municipality
has received documents, guarantee, or proof of improvements installation as
they may require.
   (B)   Plan requirements for minor subdivisions, land developments and non-
building lots.
      (1)   Plans shall be clearly and legibly drawn to an appropriate scale,
showing all properties and  names of property owners of abutting properties. 
Maximum size of plan shall not exceed 18" x 24".
      (2)   Plans shall be accompanied by that portion of the most current USGS
(7-1/2 minute) quadrangle which covers the subject property. 
      (3)   All information or accompanying documentation required by §§
155.041 and
155.042 of this subchapter shall be submitted as part of the application, only
if applicable, except that the filing fee shall be established by the
municipality, by resolution.
      (4)   A survey prepared by a surveyor registered to practice in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
      (5)   An approved/executed “non-building waiver” from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection is required for all proposed non-
building lots in an on-lot sewage disposal service area.  A non-building
declaration must be included on the plan.
   (C)   Submission and review procedures for minor subdivision or land
developments. The submission and review procedures for all minor subdivision
and land developments shall comply with the applicable requirements of §§
155.020 through
155.022 of this chapter (submission of final plan, review of final plan, and
recording of final plan) except that §
155.021(D)(1) may be excluded (public hearing) at the discretion of the
municipality. 
   (D)   Non-building waiver.
      (1)   A non-building declaration shall waive the requirements of §§
155.040 through
155.042 of this subchapter for the non-building lot, provided that the
municipality has received all documentation as they may require for such
determination. 
      (2)   All non-building lots shall be subject to the requirements listed
in division (B) of this section excluding subsection (3). 
   (E)   Submission and review procedures for non-building lots.
      (1)   All documents for non-building lots shall be submitted to the
Municipal Planning Commission for review. 
      (2)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall review the above submission
within 30 days of the receipt of all necessary documents.
      (3)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall then submit their
recommendation to the municipal officials for their review. 
      (4)   If the municipal officials approve the non-building lot, the survey
shall be signed and dated by the appropriate municipal officials and forwarded
to the subdivider for recording. 
      (5)   If the municipal officials do not approve the non- building lot,
then the officials shall state the reasons for refusal and submit them to the
subdivider in writing.
      (6)   One signed copy of the survey shall remain with the municipality
for their records.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.055  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The standards and requirements contained in §§
155.055 through
155.077 of this chapter are intended as the minimum for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and shall be applied as such by the
Municipal Planning Commission and municipal officials in reviewing all
subdivision plans.
   (B)   Whenever other municipal ordinances and/or regulations impose more
restrictive standards and requirements than those contained herein, such other
ordinances and/or regulations shall be observed; otherwise, the standards and
requirements of these regulations shall apply. 
   (C)   The subdivision shall be so designed that streets in and bordering the
subdivision or land development shall be coordinated, and be of such widths and
grades and in such locations as deemed necessary to accommodate prospective
traffic, and facilitate fire protection. 
   (D)   Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property, such as may
arise from underground fires, floods, diseases, subsidence, or other causes,
shall not be subdivided for building purposes unless such hazards have been
eliminated or unless the subdivision plan shall show adequate safeguards
against them, which shall be approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies. 
   (E)   Subdivision plans shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan of the
municipality and of the county or to such parts thereof as may have been
adopted pursuant to statute.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.056  STREETS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   The locations and width of all streets shall conform to the
“official plan” or to such parts thereof as may have been adopted by the
municipality. 
      (2)   The proposed street system shall extend existing or other streets
on the “official plans” at the same width or larger but in no case at less than
the required minimum width.
      (3)   Where, in the opinion of the Municipal Planning Commission or
Municipal Officials, it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining
property, street stubs shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such
property.
      (4)   New minor streets shall be so designed as to discourage through
traffic, but the subdivider shall give adequate continuation of major and
collector streets into and from adjoining properties. 
      (5)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of
improper width or alignment, the Municipal Planning Commission or municipal
officials may require the dedication of land sufficient to widen the street or
correct the alignment.
      (6)   Private streets (streets not to be offered for dedication) are
prohibited unless they meet the  design standards of these regulations. 
   (B)   Partial and half streets.  New half or partial streets shall be
prohibited except where essential for reasonable subdivision of a tract in
conformance with the other requirements and standards of these regulations and
where, in addition, satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining part
of the street can be obtained. 
   (C)   Street widths.  Minimum street right-of-way and pavement widths shall
be as shown on the “official plans” or if not shown on such plans, shall be as
follows.  Refer to PennDOT publication on the construction of local streets if
adequate information is not indicated on the following chart.
   (D)   Restriction of access.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
street with a right-of-way of 80 feet or more, the Municipal Planning
Commission or municipal officials may require reconstruction of access to said
street by:
         (a)   Provision of reverse frontage lots;
         (b)   Provision of service streets along the rear of the abutting
lots, together with prohibition of private driveways intersecting the major
streets; and
         (c)   Provision of marginal access streets, provided that the reserve
strips establishing such
marginal access streets shall be definitely placed within the jurisdiction of
the municipality under an agreement meeting the approval of the municipality’s
Solicitor.
      (2)   Except as specified under subsection (c) above, reserve strips
shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Street grades.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum centerline grade of 3/4%.
      (2)   Centerline grades shall not exceed the following: 
         (a)   Minor street: 10%;
         (b)   Collector street: 6%;
         (c)   Major street: 6%; and 
         (d)   Street intersection: 5%.
      (3)   Grades up to 12% may be permitted on a through minor street where
access to the street  is possible over streets with grades of 10% or less. 
   (F)   Horizontal curves.
      (1)   Whenever street lines are deflected in excess of five degrees,
connection shall be made by  horizontal curves.
      (2)   To ensure adequate sight distance, minimum centerline radii for
horizontal curves shall be as follows:
         (a)   Minor streets: 150 feet; 
         (b)    Collector streets: 300 feet; and 
         (c)   Major streets: 500 feet. 
      (3)   A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced between all
horizontal curves on collector and major streets.
      (4)   o the greatest extent possible, combinations of the minimum radius
and maximum grade shall be avoided.
   (G)   Vertical curves (dip).  At all changes of street grades where the
algebraic difference exceeds 1%, vertical curves shall be provided to allow an
easy or smooth transition. 
   (H)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and
no street shall intersect another at an angle of less than 60 degrees or more
than 120 degrees.
      (2)   No more than two streets shall intersect at the same point.
      (3)   Streets intersecting another street shall either intersect directly
opposite to each other or shall be separated by at least 150 feet between
centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being intersected.
      (4)   Intersections shall be approached on all sides by a straight
leveling area, the grade of which shall not exceed 5% within 50 feet of the
intersection of the nearest right-of-way lines.     
      (5)   Intersections with major streets shall be located not less than
1,000 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline along the center line
of the major street.
      (6)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a tangential arc with
a minimum radius of: 
         (a)   Thirty-five feet for intersections involving only minor streets;
         (b)   Fifty feet for all intersections involving a collector street;
and
         (c)   Fifty feet for all intersections involving a major street.
      (7)   Street right-of-way lines shall be parallel to (concentric with)
curb arcs at intersections.
   (I)   Sight distance at intersections.
      (1)   Clear sight triangles shall be provided at all street
intersections.  Within such triangles, no  vision-obstructing object other than
utility poles shall be permitted which obscures vision above the height of 30
inches and below ten feet measured from the centerline grade of intersecting
streets.  Such triangles shall be established from a distance of:
         (a)   Seventy-five feet from the point of intersection of the
centerline, except that;
         (b)   Clear sight triangles of 150 feet shall be provided for all
intersections with major streets.
      (2)   Wherever a portion of the line of such triangles occurs behind
(such as, from the street) the building reserve (setback) line, such portion
shall be shown on the final plan of the subdivision and shall be considered a
building setback (reserve) line.
   (J)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Dead-end streets are prohibited unless designed as cul-de-sac
streets or designed for future access to adjoining properties.
      (2)   Any dead-end street for access to an adjoining property or because
of authorized stage development  shall be provided with a temporary all-weather
turn-around within the subdivision, and the use of such turn-around shall be
guaranteed to the public until such time as the street is extended.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed
600 feet in length and shall not furnish access to more than 20 dwelling units.
      (4)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turn-around right-of-way shall be  placed adjacent to the tract boundary with
sufficient additional width provided along the boundary line to permit
extension of the street in full width.
      (5)   All cul-de-sac streets, whether permanently or temporarily designed
as such, shall be provided at  the closed end with a fully paved turn-around. 
The minimum radius to the pavement edge or curb line shall be 40 feet and the
minimum radius of the right-of-way shall be 50 feet.
      (6)   Drainage of cul-de-sac streets shall preferably be towards the open
end.  If drainage is toward the  closed end it shall be conducted away in an
underground storm sewer.
      (7)   The centerline grade on a cul-de-sac shall not exceed 10%, and the
grade of the diameter of the turn-around shall not exceed 5%.
      (8)   All cul-de-sac street widths shall follow the same minimum street
widths as prescribed for minor streets.
   (K)   Street names.
      (1)   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with others
already existing and named, shall bear  the names of the existing streets.
      (2)   In no case shall the name of a proposed street be the same as or
similar to an existing street name in the municipality and in the postal
district, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, road, avenue,
boulevard, driveway, place, court, lane and the like.
      (3)   All street names shall be subject to the approval of the municipal
officials.
   (L)   Service streets (alleys).
      (1)   Service streets may be permitted, provided that the subdivider
produces evidence satisfactory to the Municipal Planning Commission or the
municipal officials of the need for such service  streets.
      (2)   No part of any structure shall be located within 20 feet of the
centerline of a service street.
      (3)   Dead-end service streets shall be avoided, but where this proves
impossible, dead-end service streets shall terminate with a paved circular
turn-around or equal with a minimum radius of the  outer pavement edge of 40
feet. 
      (4)   Service street intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall
be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be rounded or cut back
sufficiently to permit safe vehicular circulation. 
   (M)   Driveway.
      (1)   Private driveways on corner lots shall be located at least 40 feet
from the point of  intersection of the nearest street right-of-way lines.
      (2)   In order to provide  safe and convenient means of access, grades on
private driveways shall not exceed 7%.  Entrances should be rounded at a
minimum radius of five feet, or should have a flare construction that is
equivalent to the radius at the point of intersection with the cartway edge. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.057  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Layout.  The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate sites for buildings of the type proposed;
      (2)   Zoning requirements;
      (3)   Topography; and
      (4)   Requirements for safe and convenient vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, including the reduction of intersections with major streets.
   (B)   Length.
      (1)   Blocks shall have a maximum length of 1,600 feet and a minimum
length of 500 feet, provided however that the Municipal Planning Commission or
municipal officials may decrease the maximum and/or minimum lengths of blocks
if in the opinion of either body, topography of the land in question and/or
surface water drainage condition warrant such a decrease.
      (2)   In the design of blocks longer than 1,000 feet, special
consideration shall be given to the requirements of satisfactory fire
protection. 
      (3)   Where practicable, blocks along major and collector streets shall
not be less than 1,000 feet long.
   (C)   Crosswalks.
      (1)   Crosswalks shall be required in blocks of over 1,000 feet or
wherever necessary to facilitate pedestrian circulation and to give access to
community facilities.
      (2)   Such crosswalks shall have a right-of-way width of not less than
ten feet and a paved walk of not less than five feet.
   (D)   Depth.  Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate
two tiers of lots, except where prevented by the size, topographical
conditions, or other inherent conditions of property, in which case the
Municipal Planning Commission or municipal officials may approve a single tier
of lots. 
   (E)   Commercial and industrial blocks.  Blocks in commercial and industrial
areas may vary from the element of design detailed above as required by the
nature of the use.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.058  LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Insofar as practical, side lot lines should be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (2)   Where feasible, lot lines should follow municipal boundaries rather
than cross them in order to avoid jurisdictional problems.
      (3)   Generally, the depth of residential lots should be not less than
one times their width.
      (4)   Depth and width of parcels intended for non-residential uses shall
be adequate for the use  proposed and sufficient to provide satisfactory space
for on-site parking, loading and unloading, setbacks, landscaping and the like.
      (5)   If, after subdividing, there exists remnants of land, they shall be
either:
         (a)   Incorporated in existing or proposed lots; or
         (b)   Legally dedicated to public use, if acceptable to the
municipality.
   (B)   Lot frontage.
      (1)   All lots shall have direct access to a public street, existing or
proposed or to a private street  if it meets the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Double or reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where
required to provide separation of residential development from major streets or
to overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation.
      (3)   All residential reverse frontage lots shall have, within such rear
yard and immediately adjacent to the right-of-way, a planting screen easement
of at least ten feet in width, across which there  shall be no right of access.
   (C)   Lot size and setback.  Lot dimensions, areas, and setbacks shall not
be less than specified by the Municipal Zoning Ordinance, or if no municipal
zoning exists then the following dimensions and areas shall prevail:
      (1)   The minimum lot area for residential buildings with access to
public water or on-lot water and public sewage collection and treatment shall
be 11,000 square feet, and a width at the building line of not less than 50
feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for residential buildings without access to
public water and public sewage collection and treatment shall be one acre, and
a width at the building line of not less than 100 feet.
      (3)   The minimum lot area for residential buildings with public water
and without public sewage collection and treatment shall be one-half acre, and
a width at the building line of not less than 50 feet.
      (4)   The minimum building setback from any right-of-way shall be 25
feet. 
      (5)   The minimum building setback from any property line shall be 15
feet.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.059  SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be designed and constructed in strict accordance
with Department of Environmental Protection Standards of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and municipal construction standards.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers shall not be used to carry storm water. 
   (C)   Where it is necessary and feasible to rely upon on-lot sewage disposal
systems, said systems must meet all minimum requirements and standards of the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act 537, 25 Pa. Code Chapters 71 through 73; the
Municipal Zoning Ordinance, if exists; and any amendments or supplements
thereto or any regulations adopted pursuant thereto.  Within the municipality,
the provisions of the Act/Code are administered by the Municipal Sewage
Enforcement Officer(s). 
   (D)   If sanitary on-lot sewage disposal facilities are to be utilized, the
municipality may require that the subdivider submit an economic feasibility
report.  Such report shall compare the cost of providing on-site facilities and
the cost of connecting to a public sanitary sewer system with a temporary
sewage treatment plant.  The temporary treatment plant will have to be
abandoned when public trunk sewers are installed in the area.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.060  SOIL TEST REQUIREMENTS .
   (A)   Soil tests shall be performed for all subdivisions wherein residential
buildings and/or other buildings requiring sewage disposal, at the time of
construction, will not be connected to a public or community sanitary sewage
disposal system.
   (B)   Soil tests shall be performed in accordance with the procedures
required by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection by the
Municipal Sewage Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   The results of the soil tests shall be analyzed by the Municipal
Planning Commission and municipal officials in conjunction with the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection in relation to the physical
characteristics of the tract being subdivided and of the general area
surrounding the tract being subdivided, and the final plan lot layout shall be
based on this analysis.
   (D)   If the analysis of the soil test results reveals that the site is
unsuitable for the intended use at the lot size proposed, the Municipal
Planning Commission or the municipal officials may require that the lot size(s)
be increased in accordance with the test results or that additional tests be
made on each proposed lot at the location of the contemplated disposal
facilities, and the data submitted for review. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.061  WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Water supply shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
the water authority serving that area.  If water is to be provided by means
other than private wells owned and maintained by the individual owners of lots
within the subdivision or development, applicants shall present evidence to the
municipality that the subdivision or development is to be supplied by a
certified public utility, a bona fide cooperative association of lot owners, or
by a municipal corporation, authority or other utility.  A copy of a
certificate of public convenience from the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission or application for such certificate, a cooperative agreement or a
commitment or agreement to serve the area in question, whichever is
appropriate, shall be acceptable evidence.
   (B)   Where individual on-site water supply system(s) are to be utilized,
each lot so served shall be of a size and shape to allow safe location of such
a system and wells shall be placed uphill from sewage disposal systems and
shall not be within 100 feet of any part of the absorption field of any on-site
sanitary sewage disposal system, nor within 50 feet from lakes, streams, ponds,
quarries and the like. 
   (C)   Where individual on-site water supply system(s) are to be utilized, it
is recommended that the subdivider provide at least one test well for each ten
proposed dwelling units.  Such wells should be drilled, cased, and grout sealed
into bedrock at least 50 feet deep, having a production capacity of at least
five gallons per minute of safe potable drinking water as certified by state or
municipal health officer. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.062  STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   Any landowner and any person engaged in the alteration or development of
land which may affect storm water runoff characteristics shall implement such
measures consistent with the provisions of the applicable watershed storm water
management plan as are reasonably necessary to prevent injury to health, and of
person’s safety and/or damage to adjacent property.  Such measures shall
include such actions as are required to assure that the maximum rate of storm
water runoff is no greater after development than prior to development
activities; or to manage the quantity, velocity and direction of resulting
storm water runoff in a manner which otherwise adequately protects health and
property from possible injury.
   (A)   General criteria.
      (1)   The storm water management plan must consider all the storm water
runoff flowing over the project site.
      (2)   All storm water runoff easements and detention controls shall be
located and designed by a person qualified and/or experienced in the location
and design of such structures.
      (3)   The method used in calculating storm water runoff shall be the
method designated in the
Chapter 154 or as computed in division (B) of this section. 
      (4)   Storm water roof drains and pipes shall discharge water into
cisterns, French drains (where soils are suitable), sheet drains or other storm
water runoff dispersion and absorption control device and not into storm sewers
unless recommended in the watershed storm water plan.
      (5)   No discharge of toxic materials into any storm water management
system is permitted.
      (6)   Flow velocities from any storm drain may not result in a deflection
of the receiving channel. 
      (7)   Developers are encouraged to consult the following storm water
management and erosion sedimentation control publications in preparing their
plans:
         (a)   Chapter 102, Erosion Control, Title 25, Rules and Regulations of
the Department of Environmental Protection;
         (b)   Chapter 105, Water Obstructions and Encroachments, Title 25,
Rules and Regulations of the Department of Environmental Protection;
         (c)   Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices, 1975, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service;
         (d)   Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook, Cambria County
Conservation District;
         (e)   Guidelines for Storm Water Management, Department of
Environmental Protection, Bureau of Dams and Waterway Management;
         (f)   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Manual, Department of
Environmental Protection, Bureau of Soil and Water Conservation and Bureau of
Water Quality Management;
         (g)   Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release No. 55,
Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, January, 1975;
         (h)   Chest Creek Watershed Act 167, Storm Water Management Plan,
Cambria County Conservation District, Ebensburg, Pennsylvania;
         (i)   PennDOT Design Manual II (Publication 13), Section 10.
   (B)   Specific criteria.
      (1)   Storm water runoff rates shall be computed as outlined in the
appropriate Municipal Stormwater Management Plan or as follows:
         (a)   Sites up to five acres shall use the rational method of
calculating run-off as detailed in PA DOT Publication 13, Section 10.  Pipes,
ditches and swales shall be designed accordingly.   
         (b)   Sites over five acres shall use the rational method to design
pipes, swales and ditches.  Storm water detention shall be designed using the
SCS method detailed in Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release
55.  Detention shall be designed using five- and 25-year storm events.
      (2)   Water quality for the specific watershed must comply with the
appropriate Municipal Stormwater Management Plan. 
      (3)   Erosion and sedimentation: all activities shall be conducted in
such a way as to minimize accelerated erosion and resulting sedimentation. 
Measures to control erosion and sedimentation shall at a minimum meet the
standards of the County Conservation District and Chapter 102 (Erosion Control)
of Title 25, Rules and Regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.063  PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   Public open spaces.
      (1)   In reviewing subdivision plans, the Municipal Planning Commission
and municipal officials should consider whether community facilities,
especially schools, in the area are adequate to serve the needs of the
additional dwellings proposed by the subdivision.
      (2)   Subdividers and the municipality shall give earnest consideration
to providing facilities or reserving areas for facilities normally required in
residential neighborhoods, including churches,  libraries, schools and other
public buildings; parks, playgrounds and playfields, shopping and local
business centers.  Areas provided or reserved for such community facilities
shall be adequate to provide for building sites, landscaping and off-street
parking as appropriate to the use of the proposed facility.  Prior to the
preparation of plans, subdividers of large tracts should review with the
Municipal Planning Commission or municipal officials the minimum standards for
various community facilities applicable to the tract being subdivided.
      (3)   In subdivisions which are intended to provide housing, the
Municipal Planning Commission or municipal officials shall consider the need
for suitable open areas for recreation and shall make a recommendation
thereon.  However, if the municipality has a formally-adopted recreation plan,
then the land area to be dedicated, or the fees to be paid in lieu thereof,
shall conform to said recreation plan and shall be a condition precedent to
final plan approval. 
   (B)   Community assets. Consideration shall be shown for all natural
features such as large trees, water courses, historic areas and structures, and
similar community assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value
to the remainder of the subdivision.
   (C)   Utility easements.
      (1)   A temporary construction easement of 30 feet and a permanent
maintenance easement of 15 feet shall be provided for poles, wires, conduits,
storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat mains and/or other utility lines
intended to service the abutting lots.  No structures or trees shall be placed
within such easements.
      (2)   To the fullest extent possible, easements shall be centered on or
adjacent to rear or side lot lines. 
      (3)   There shall be a minimum distance of 50 feet, measured in the
shortest distance, between any proposed dwelling unit and any petroleum,
petroleum products, or natural gas transmission line which traverses the
subdivision.
      (4)   Subdividers are urged to avail themselves of the services provided
by the various public utility companies in determining the proper locations for
utility line easements.
      (5)   Utility service for residential development is recommended to be
provided through the use of underground facilities in accordance with the
standards and approval of the utility company having appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007) Penalty, see §
155.999
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.075  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Physical improvements to the property being subdivided shall be provided,
constructed, and installed as shown on the record plan, in accordance with the
requirements of these regulations, or other municipal ordinances or
regulations. 
   (A)   As a condition to approval of a final plan by the Municipal Planning
Commission or municipal officials, the subdivider shall agree with the
municipality as to the installation of all improvements shown on the plan and
required by these or other municipal ordinances or regulations. 
   (B)   (1)   All improvements installed by the subdivider shall be
constructed in accordance with the design specifications of the municipality.
      (2)   Where there are no applicable municipal design specifications,
improvements shall be constructed in accordance with specifications furnished
by the Municipal Engineer, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, or such other state agency
as applicable.  If there are no applicable municipal or state regulations, the
municipality may authorize that specifications be prepared by the Municipal
Engineer or an Engineering Consultant.
   (C)   Supervision of the installation of the required improvements shall in
all cases be the responsibility of the Municipal Engineer, water and/or sewer
authority, or of the appropriate state regulatory agency.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.076  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be installed by the subdivider or a
guarantee suitable to the municipality shall be provided by the subdivider
which shall ensure the provision of the improvements at the standards set forth
in these regulations.
   (A)   Street grading.  All streets shall be graded at full right-of-way
width.
   (B)   Cartway paving.  All streets intended to be dedicated to public use
shall be paved to full cartway width (as shown on the final plan) in accordance
with municipal specifications.
   (C)   Curbs.  Curbs are to be installed when deemed necessary by the
Municipal Engineer based on the need to control storm water runoff and/or on-
street parking and approved by the municipality.
   (D)   Sewers.
      (1)   Storm sewers. Storm sewers and related facilities shall be
installed consistent with the design principles and requirements contained in
§§
155.055 through
155.063 of this chapter.
      (2)   Sanitary sewage disposal system(s).
         (a)   Sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be provided consistent
with the design standards and requirements contained in §§
155.055 through
155.063 of this chapter.
         (b)   Whenever a subdivider proposes that individual on-lot sewage
disposal systems shall be utilized within the subdivision, the subdivider shall
either install such facilities or shall require (by deed restriction or
otherwise), as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel within the
subdivision, that such facilities shall be installed by the purchaser of such
lot or parcel at the time that a principal building is constructed and in
accordance with this chapter.
         (c)   In all other cases, the subdivider shall provide a complete
community or public sanitary sewage disposal system.  The design and
installation of such public system shall be subject to the approval of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and such system shall be
further subject to satisfactory provision for the maintenance thereof.
   (E)   Water supply.
      (1)   Water supply system(s) shall be installed consistent with design
principles and requirements contained in §§
155.055 through
155.063 of this chapter.
      (2)   Where the subdivider proposes that individual on-site water supply
system shall be utilized within the subdivision, the subdivider shall either
install such facilities or shall require (by deed restriction or otherwise), as
a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel within the subdivision, that the
facilities shall be installed by the purchaser of such lot or parcel at the
time that a principal building is constructed and in accordance with this
chapter. 
      (3)   Wherever economically feasible, the subdivision shall be provided
with a complete public or community water distribution system.
   (F)   Fire hydrants.  Wherever a public or community water supply system is
provided, fire hydrants shall be installed as required by the local water
supplier of all existing and proposed structures, measured by way of accessible
streets.
   (G)   Monuments and markers.  Permanent reference monuments of pre-cast
concrete or poured on-site concrete shall be installed by a professional land
surveyor, as that term is defined by Act 367 of 1945, as amended.  Pre-cast
monuments shall be at least six inches square at the top and bottom and at
least 30 inches in depth, with a steel dowel.  Poured on-site monuments shall
be at least six inches in diameter and at least 30 inches in depth with a steel
dowel.  Monuments shall be set at all corners and angle points of the
boundaries of the original tract to be subdivided prior to approval of the
plan.  Markers shall be installed at all lot corners and shall consist of iron
or steel bars at least 24 inches long, and not less than one-half inch in
diameter.
   (H)   Street signs.  Street name signs shall be installed at all street
intersections.  The design and placement of such signs shall be subject to
approval by the municipality.
   (I)   Street lights.  In accordance with the conditions to be agreed upon by
the subdivider, the municipality, and the appropriate public utility, street
lights are required to be installed in all subdivisions.  However, whether or
not street lights are initially installed, the developer shall be responsible
for providing utility easements for future street lighting installation upon
consultation with the public service utility company involved.
   (J)   Recreational facilities.  As a condition precedent to final plan
approval, the subdivider, upon agreement with the municipality, shall construct
recreational facilities, pay fees in lieu thereof, or reserve private land, or
a combination thereof, for park or recreational purposes only if the
municipality has a formally-adopted recreation plan.  The standards for
determining the proportion of a development to be dedicated and/or the amount
of any fee to be paid in lieu thereof shall be indicated in §
155.063 of this subchapter, if applicable.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.077  RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements, intended to enhance the sales value and public
safety of the subdivision, as well as to benefit the municipality are
recommended:
   (A)   Shade trees.  Every effort must be made by the subdivider to preserve
existing shade trees and, in addition, deciduous hardwood trees with a minimum
caliber of one and one-half inches should be provided in accordance with
conditions to be agreed upon by the municipality.  Where provided, such trees
should be planted between the sidewalk and the building reserve (setback) line
at least five feet from the sidewalk or between the curb and the sidewalk
provided the planting strip is a minimum of six feet wide.  If no curb or
sidewalk is provided, trees shall set back a minimum of ten feet from the
street ROW.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   When required by the municipality, sidewalks with a minimum width
of four feet shall be installed on both sides of all streets except that no
sidewalks shall be required along service streets.
      (2)   All sidewalks, curbs, and gutters shall be installed in accordance
with this chapter and with curb, gutter or sidewalk ordinances of the
municipality.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.090  DEFINITION AND EXCLUSIONS.
   Developments defined as land developments under the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (Act 247, as amended) are regulated under this
chapter.  The definition of land development includes any improvement to the
land involving two or more residential buildings or any non-residential
building.  Therefore, the construction of a single-family residential building
is excluded from this definition and from this chapter.  Also, excluded is the
leasing (or selling) of land for agricultural purposes in parcels of ten or
more acres (not involving any new streets or easements or residential dwelling
units).  Typical land developments include, but are not limited to, multi-
family residential buildings, commercial centers and industrial developments. 
It shall be unlawful for an applicant to construct land developments as defined
in this chapter without complying with these additional requirements. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.091  PROCEDURES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In processing a land development, the three-stage procedure
established in this chapter for land subdivisions shall be used:  sketch plan
(not mandatory), preliminary plan and final plan stages.  Land developments
shall be processed and submission requirements shall be the same as that
required for subdivisions.  The final plan shall be recorded in the County
Recorder of Deeds Office. 
   (B)   The municipality may exempt a land development from preparing a
preliminary plan if the following provisions are met: 
      (1)   It meets the criteria for a minor subdivision and land development;
      (2)   It does not involve earth disturbance of more than five acres; and
      (3)   It does not involve a building of greater than 20,000 square feet
gross leasable area, or in excess of two stories in height.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.092  FINAL PLAN REVIEW.
   In addition to other final plan requirements (see §§
155.040 through
155.043 of this chapter for final plan subdivision review), the following items
shall be included for final plan review for all land developments, as
applicable: 
   (A)   The applicant shall prepare and submit a site plan.  Site plans, as
required in this subchapter, detail the construction of all required
improvements and contain information establishing compliance with the design
standards of this chapter.
   (B)   In cases of multi-owner or multi-tenant developments, proof of
organization and means for management and maintenance of common open space,
parking, and other improvements must be shown.  Legal documents demonstrating
creation of an association or other means of assuring continuing maintenance
shall be required. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.093  SITE PLAN.
   (A)   In lieu of a subdivision plan (plot plan), the developer shall submit
a site plan.  For land developments having a total developed area of less than
15,000 square feet, the site plan shall be prepared at a scale of one inch
equals 50 feet.  Where the total developed area is over 15,000 square feet but
less than five acres, the site plan shall be prepared at a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet.  Where the total developed area is over five acres, the site
plan shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals 200 feet. 
   (B)   Where building and parking lot development will cover an area in
excess of one acre (43,560 square feet), topographic data at two-foot contour
intervals shall be required.  For developments of less than one acre,
topographic data at ten-foot contour intervals shall be required. 
   (C)   All land developments must comply with preliminary and final plan
requirements (as applicable) as set forth within this chapter. 
   (D)   Building elevations, while not required, are strongly encouraged as
part of a site plan submission. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.094  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All land developments must comply with all applicable standards as
contained in §§
155.055 through
155.063 of this chapter.
   (B)   All land developments must comply with all applicable requirements as
contained in §§
155.075 through
155.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.095  MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A multi-family dwelling development involving not more than three
dwelling units shall be considered a minor land development.  As such, this
minor land development will be exempt from submission and review of preliminary
plans.  Such minor land development may proceed directly with final plan
requirements as contained in this chapter.  All multi-family dwelling
developments containing four or more dwelling units shall follow both
preliminary and final plan submission and review procedures. 
   (B)   All multi-family dwelling land developments shall comply with the lot
dimensions, areas and setbacks specified by the municipal zoning ordinance.  If
no municipal zoning exists, then the following areas, dimensions and setbacks
shall prevail: 
      (1)   The maximum density of multi-family land developments without
public water and without public sewage collection and treatment shall be three
units per acre, and a width at the building line of not less than 100 feet plus
three feet per unit. 
      (2)   The maximum density of multi-family land developments with public
water and without public sewage collection and treatment shall be six units per
acre, and a width at the building line of not less than 50 feet plus three feet
per unit. 
      (3)   The maximum density of multi-family land developments with public
water and with public sewage collection and treatment shall be 12 units per
acre, and a width at the building line of not less than 50 feet plus three feet
per unit. 
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling land developments shall have a minimum
building setback from any right-of-way (road or street) of 25 feet plus three
feet per unit. 
      (5)   Multi-family dwelling land developments shall have a minimum
building setback from any property line of 15 feet plus three feet per unit. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.096  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial and industrial land developments shall comply with the
provisions contained within the Municipal Zoning Ordinance.  If no municipal
zoning exists, then the following design standards shall prevail: 
      (1)   The total land area for such developments shall be sufficient to
provide adequate space for off-street parking and loading, water and sewage
facilities, landscaping, and property line setbacks.  At a minimum, there shall
be not less than four square feet of off-street parking for each one square
foot of building use. 
      (2)   Front property line setback shall be not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   Side property line setback shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (4)   Rear property line setback shall be not less than 50 feet.
      (5)   Any side or rear property line abutting a residential property
shall have a landscape area of ten feet in width containing evergreen and
deciduous plantings. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.097  ACCEPTANCE, MAINTENANCE AND COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If the land development involves the lease or rental of buildings or
space on the site and site improvements (streets, parking areas and stormwater
drainage devices) which are to be privately maintained or maintained by an
entity created by the developer, then there is no need for municipal acceptance
of the site improvements.  However, in these instances, streets and stormwater
drainage shall be designed and built to the standards contained in this
chapter, and the municipality shall affirm that these improvements are, in
fact, built to such standards. 
   (B)   Where the developer does not intend to maintain the improvement and
where a homeowner’s association or similar organization will not be organized
for these responsibilities, the developer will submit a plan for the
maintenance of such facilities.  This document will be legally enforceable and
clearly establish the maintenance responsibility.  Any proposed improvement to
be offered for public dedication will follow the requirements as specified by
this chapter. 
   (C)   Prior to final approval of the final site plan, the land developer
shall guarantee the installation of all applicable required improvements by one
of the methods contained in §
155.023 of this chapter. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 155.110  MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, maintain, or operate a
mobile home park within the municipality without obtaining a mobile home park
plan approval from the municipal officials.  The procedures for reviewing
mobile home park plans shall be the same as for subdivision and land
development plans in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.  Unless
specified in this subchapter, the design standards and improvement requirements
for mobile home parks shall be the same as for subdivision and land development
projects in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. 
   (A)   Plan requirements.  Prior to plan approval of a mobile home park,
plans shall be submitted to and approved by the municipal officials in
accordance with the requirements and procedures of this chapter.  In addition
to the plan information required elsewhere in this chapter, the following
information shall be provided on the plans:
      (1)   The location and use of proposed buildings or structural
improvements; and
      (2)   The location and design of all uses not requiring structures such
as recreation areas and landscaping. 
   (B)   Register.  It shall be incumbent upon the proprietor of a mobile home
park to keep a register and to report therein the name of person or head of
family occupying each said mobile home, showing date of entry on said land,
make and size of the mobile home, and the names of all persons living in said
mobile home. 
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   The minimum tract area for mobile home parks shall be five acres.
      (2)   The gross density per park shall not exceed eight mobile home units
per acre.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Individual mobile home lots located in a mobile home park shall
contain at least 5,000 square feet of lot area and shall not be less than 50
feet wide at the building set-back line exclusive of easements or rights-of-
way. 
      (2)   All mobile home lots shall be given street numbers and all park
streets shall be given names. 
   (E)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 35 feet from any street
right-of-way which abuts a mobile home park boundary and at least 25 feet from
any other boundary of the park.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of 25 feet between an individual
mobile home and adjoining pavement of a park street or common parking area or
other common areas.
      (3)   All mobile homes and patios on a mobile home lot shall not be
located closer than ten feet to a lot line.
      (4)   Minimum park frontage shall be 100 feet.
   (F)   Park street system.
      (1)   Streets.  All streets within any mobile home park shall be designed
in accordance with the design standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Intersections.  Not more than two streets shall intersect at any
point and a distance of at least 150 feet shall be maintained between center
lines of offset intersecting streets. 
   (G)   Required off-street parking.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas shall be provided in all mobile home parks
for the use of park occupants and guests.  Such areas shall be furnished at the
rate of at least two vehicular parking spaces for each mobile home lot.
      (2)   Each off-street parking space shall contain at least 200 square
feet and shall not exceed a distance of 300 feet from the mobile home lot that
it is intended to serve.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)  Penalty, see § 155.999
ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.120  REVISION AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The municipal governing body may, from time to time on their own
motion revise, modify, or amend this chapter in order to increase its
effectiveness or to expedite the approval of subdivision plans.
   (B)   Any revisions, modification, or amendments to these regulations shall
be made in accordance with the procedures as provided in Act 247, Section 505,
after a public hearing on the proposed revisions, modifications or amendments.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.121  MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The municipal governing body may grant a modification or waiver from
the requirements of one or more of the provisions within this chapter if the
literal enforcement will exact undue hardship because of peculiar conditions
pertaining to the land in question, provided that such modification or waiver
will not be contrary to the public interest and that the purpose and intent of
the ordinance is observed.
   (B)   All requests for a modification or waiver shall be in writing and
shall accompany and be part of the application for subdivision or land
development review.  The request shall state in full the grounds and facts of
unreasonableness or hardship on which the request is based, the provision(s) of
the ordinance involved, and the minimum modification necessary.
   (C)   The municipal governing body shall keep a written record of the action
on all requests for modifications and/or waivers.
   (D)   In reviewing the subdivider’s request for a modification/waiver from
this chapter, the following criteria should be used:
      (1)   An unnecessary hardship should be established upon a finding of
fact.
      (2)   The particular hardship must stem from this chapter.
      (3)   The situation must be unique, not one shared similarly by other
properties in the neighborhood. 
      (4)   The hardship cannot be self-created by the property owner.
      (5)   Hardship is not to be construed to mean that less profit will be
made under the existing regulations than might be realized with the granting of
a modification/waiver.
      (6)   The hardship must be suffered by the parcel of land under question
and not by other parcels owned by the subdivider or by the community as a
whole.
      (7)   If this chapter were in existence at the time of the purchase of
the parcel of land under question, the condition of the parcel itself or the
neighborhood must have changed since the time of the purchase.  The changed
condition must have a unique bearing on the parcel under question.
   (E)   In granting modifications/waivers, the municipal governing body may
impose such condition as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
original objectives of the now modified requirements.
   (F)   In order to encourage flexibility, economy, and ingenuity in the
layout and design of subdivision and land developments, and to encourage the
provision of amenities not otherwise required by this chapter or other
applicable regulations, the municipal governing body may waive, modify, reduce,
or otherwise alter the standards and requirements of this chapter, provided,
that such actions do not conflict with the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.122  MEDIATION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The municipality may offer a mediation option as an aid in completing
proceedings authorized by Article V, Section 508 of Act 247.  In exercising
this option, the municipality and mediating parties shall meet the stipulations
and follow the procedures set forth in Article IX, Section 908.1 of Act 247, as
re-enacted and amended.
   (B)   Any subdivider aggrieved by a finding, decision, or recommendation of
the municipality may appeal such finding, decision or recommendation to the
Court of Common Pleas.
   (C)   All subdivision and land development appeals shall be filed not later
than 30 days after issuance of notice of the decision or report of the
municipality.  All appeals shall be in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of Act 247.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.123  FEES.
   (A)   The municipal officials shall establish by resolution a collection
procedure and schedule of fees to be paid by the subdivider at the time of
filing a preliminary plan.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the Municipal Secretary’s
office or in such other place as the municipal officials may designate.
   (C)   In the event the subdivider is required to pay additional fees at the
filing of the final plan, such fees shall be collected by the Municipal
Secretary prior to distributing the final plan.  There shall be no refund or
credit of any portion of the fee should the subdivider fail to apply for final
approval within the required period of time or if the final plan covered only a
section of the subdivision for which preliminary approval has been obtained.
   (D)   No final plan shall be approved unless all fees and charges have been
paid in full to the municipality. 
Fee Schedule
Final review - township
   Major subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
   Minor subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
Final review - Planning Commission
   Major subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
   Minor subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
                                        $85 per hour (subdivider will be billed
Inspection fee                          by the municipality after improvements
                                        are installed)
Preliminary plans - township review
   Major subdivision                 $100 plus $10 per lot
   Minor subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
Preliminary plans - Planning Commission
review
   Major subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
   Minor subdivision                 $50 plus $10 per lot
Sketch plans - filing fee               No charge
Any and all additional services required by the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance shall be performed by the Township Engineer at an hourly
charge based upon the Township Engineer’s usual and customary hourly charge
 
(Res. 2007-2008, passed 7-21-1994; Res. 190, passed 7-3-2007; Ord. 65, passed
7-3-2007)
§ 155.124  REMEDIES, ENFORCEMENT AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final
plan, the municipality is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate
bond, or other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies to effect
completion of said improvements.  If proceeds of such bond, or other security
are insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections
to all the improvements covered by said security, the municipality may, at its
option, install part of such improvements in all or part of the subdivision or
land development and may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to
recover the monies necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements. 
All of the proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any legal or
equitable action brought against the developer, or both, shall be used solely
for the installation of the improvements covered by such security, and not for
any other municipal purpose.
   (B)   In addition to other remedies, the municipality may institute and
maintain appropriate actions by law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
violation, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages and to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.  The description by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the seller or transferor
from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   (C)   The municipality may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop any real property which has been
developed or which has resulted from a subdivision or land development of real
property in violation of this chapter.  This authority to deny such a permit or
approval shall apply to any of the following applicants:
      (1)   The owner of record at the time of such violation;
      (2)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation;
      (3)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent to
the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violation; or
      (4)   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired
the property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether
such vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation. 
As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting of an
approval to any such owner, current owner, vendee or lessee for the development
of any such real property, the municipality may require compliance with the
conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
   (D)   District justices shall have initial jurisdiction in proceedings
brought under enforcement remedies. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.125  KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   The Municipal Planning Commission and the municipal officials shall keep a
record of their findings, decisions and recommendations relative to all
subdivision plans filed for review.  Such records shall be made available to
the public for review. 
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.126  RESPONSIBILITY.
   The subdivider shall be responsible for observing the procedures established
in this chapter and for submitting all plans and documents as may be required.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.127  CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Whenever there is a difference between the minimum standards specified
in this chapter and those included in other municipal ordinances or
regulations, the more stringent requirements shall apply.
   (B)   All existing ordinances or regulations or parts thereof which are
contrary to the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent
necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the municipality, pay a judgment of not
more than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the municipality as a result thereof.  No judgment shall commence
or be imposed, levied, or payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by the district justice.  If the defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals the judgment, the municipality may enforce the judgment pursuant to the
applicable rules of civil procedure.  Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation, unless the district justice determining that
there has been a violation, further determines that there was a good faith
basis for the person, partnership, or corporation violating the ordinance to
have believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be
deemed to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following the
date of the determination of a violation by the district justice and thereafter
each day that a violation continued shall constitute a separate violation.  The
court of common pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay, upon cause
shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
(Ord. 65, passed 7-3-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREETS AND ROADS
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting a franchise to Frank Chiodo to operate and
16            6-1-1970    maintain cable television in the township for a term
                          of 20 years.
                          Granting a franchise to Eastern Telecom Corporation
37            5-17-1991   for the construction and operation of a cable
                          television communications system for a term of 20
                          years.
                         
 
TABLE II:  STREETS AND ROADS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Streets in plan of lots of Beaverdale not heretofore
Res.          8-17-1938   accepted as public highways be accepted as such, such
                          acceptance being subject to the approval of the Court
                          of Quarter Sessions of the Peace.
                          Approving and accepting the opening of roads on and
9             10-14-1966  across the premises of the Cambria Mining and
                          Manufacturing Company.
31            8-15-1985   Vacating a portion of T. 706 in the township.
38            5-19-1992   Accepting and opening of roads over and across the
                          premises formerly of Cooney Bros. Coal Company.
                          Intergovernmental cooperation agreement by and
                          between the Commonwealth Office of the Attorney
80            3-6-2018    General, Bureau of Narcotics Investigation and Drug
                          Control for participation in the Municipal Drug Task
                          Force Program.
                         
 
TABLE III:  AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Implementing an agreement between the township and the state office of the
36    9-7-   Attorney General providing for the intergovernmental cooperation by
      1990   establishing administrative framework for carrying out coordinated narcotics
             investigation, enforcement and prosecution activities.
Res.  1-21-  Advising all proper officials of the intent of participating in the federal
105   1992   special bridge funds inventory and inspection program.
             Authorizing the township to incur debt in connection with the Township
40    1-18-  Volunteer Fire Company’s loan to refinance an outstanding debt incurred for
      1994   the purchase of a 1992 Spartan pumper/tanker, by entering into a guaranty
             agreement with said corporation.
             Adopting and ratifying an agreement by and between the Township of Portage
48    11-5-  and the Township of Summerhill in accordance with the Intergovernmental
      1997   Cooperation Law, being 53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq. (Act of July 12, 1972;
             Pub. L. 762, No. 180), providing for the maintenance of exchanged roadways.
Res.  11-17- Authorizing and directing to take whatever steps are necessary to become a
143   1998   participating and voting member in the Cambria-Somerset Council of
             Governments.
             Authorizing intergovernmental cooperation and participation by establishing
60    8-3-   membership with other municipalities pursuant to 53 Pa.C.S.A. §§2301 and
      2004   2317, commonly known as the Intergovernmental Cooperation Law to administer
             and enforce the Uniform Construction Code.
             The municipalities of Adams Township, Croyle Township, Summerhill Township,
Res.  12-7-  South Fork Borough, Ehrenfeld Borough, Summerhill Borough and Wilmore Borough
      2004   agree to make application for the financing and of implementation of
             intergovernmental activities.
Res.  - -    Obtaining a specific and concrete plan for the provision of regional police
183   2006   services with the Forest Hills Regional Alliance.
Res.  11-20- Collection agreement with Pennsylvania Municipal Service Company regarding
194   2007   delinquent per capita and occupation taxes.
Res.  3-4-   Approving the contract agreement between the township and the International
204   2008   Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local 110 for
             the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010.
Res.  6-17-  Authorizing participation in a cooperative purchasing program with the Forest
207   2008   Hills Regional Alliance and other governmental contractors.
69-   6-1-   Adopting an intergovernmental cooperation agreement for the purpose of shared
2010  2010   services related to the use of equipment and manpower of other municipalities
             under appropriate circumstances.
78    3-3-   Authorizing the participation of the township in the Pennsylvania Townships
      2015   Health Insurance Cooperative Trust.
79    3-3-   Authorizing the participation of the township in the PSATS Unemployment
      2015   Compensation Group Trust.
      3-6-   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement by and between the Commonwealth
80    2018   Office of the Attorney General, Bureau of Narcotics Investigation and Drug
             Control for participation in the Municipal Drug Task Force Program.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to  Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Section Code Section
P.S. Section                         Code Section
3 P.S. § 851(c)                     154.011
                                     152.001,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.         152.040,
                                     152.073,
                                     152.090
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.           154.004
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.           91.20,
                                     152.032
                                     33.36,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.           50.02,
                                     91.20
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001  91.15
35 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.           152.032
                                     33.35 -
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.           33.37,
                                     51.02,
                                     152.032
35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq.            91.20,
                                     92.22
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101                50.02
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq.        150.16
40 P.S. § 638(b)                    92.01
40 P.S. § 638(c)                    92.01
40 P.S. § 638(d)                    92.01
43 P.S. §§ 951 et seq.             93.01
52 P.S. §§ 30.51 et seq.           50.02
52 P.S. § 30.51                     91.15
52 P.S. § 30.62                     91.15
52 P.S. §§ 1396.1 et seq.          91.20
53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.         34.01
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.        50.02
53 P.S. §§ 6904.101 et seq.        36.075,
                                     36.096
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.        36.015,
                                     36.045
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 through 6924.9036.016
53 P.S. § 11101 et seq.             33.04
63 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.           52.14
53 P.S. §§ 66501 et seq.           10.03
53 P.S. § 66529                     153.02
53 P.S. § 66601                     10.99
53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(2)             153.99
53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(4)             153.99
65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.          37.06
                                     36.076,
72 P.S. § 5511.1                    36.079,
                                     36.080,
                                     36.082
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa. Code Section Code Section
Pa. Code Section                     Code Section
                                     33.37,
Pa. Code, Title 25                   154.011,
                                     154.025
                                     152.032,
Pa. Code Title 34                    152.033,
                                     152.075,
                                     152.106
Pa. Code Title 67                    72.06
25 Pa. Code Chapter1 71 through 73   155.059
                                     52.08,
25 Pa. Code Chapter 73               151.06,
                                     154.029
25 Pa. Code Chapter 92               154.011
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93               154.003
                                     154.011,
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102              154.026,
                                     154.029
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 et seq.     150.16
                                     150.15,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405 152.071,
                                     152.072,
                                     152.075
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S. Section            Code Section
53 Pa.C.S. § 2301         TSO III
53 Pa.C.S. § 2315         TSO III
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq30.01
65 Pa.C.S. Chapter 7       155.003
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 6101 et seq70.01
75 Pa.C.S. 6109            70.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Section            Code Section
2 Pa.C.S.A. § 551           33.36,
                             150.16
2 Pa.C.S.A. § 751           33.36,
                             150.16
18 Pa.C.S.A. § 5503         131.01
25 Pa.C.S.A. § 551          35.02
25 Pa.C.S.A. § 751          35.02
35 Pa.C.S.A. § 7101-7707    37.04
53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq150.16
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.72.02,
                             72.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902         72.02,
                             72.05
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a)(1)   72.02
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6103         72.02
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6106         72.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(c)      91.43
                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed        Code Section
–          - -                111.02
–           - -                150.03
189           - -                37.01
–           8-17-1938          TSO II
–           11-28-1975         152.150
–           11-28-1975         152.151
                                 36.060—
–           effective 7-1-1983 36.064,
                                 36.999
–           3-14-1987          36.060
101           8-24-1990          150.02
102           - -1991            36.001
104           12-6-1991          36.001
105           1-21-1992          TSO III
106           6-16-1992          111.01
107           12-1-1992          36.001
109           8-18-1993          31.01
110           9-1-1993           32.02
112           12-1-1993          36.001
115           12-6-1994          36.001
120           12-19-1995         36.001
123           3-19-1996          93.01
128           12-3-1996          Ch. 74, Sch. I
130           12-19-1996         36.001
132           1-21-1997          37.07
133           1-21-1997          37.03
136           5-19-1997          Ch. 74, Sch. I
137           8-19-1997          Ch. 73, Sch. I
139           12-16-1997         36.001
140           2-3-1998           33.20
143           11-17-1998         TSO III
147           12-15-1998         36.001
146           1-4-1999           Ch. 74, Sch. I
148           2-16-1999          Ch. 74, Sch. I
155           1-4-2000           36.001
156           1-25-2000          Ch. 74, Sch. I
157           5-23-2000          Ch. 73, Sch. I
158           9-5-2000           Ch. 74, Sch. I
159           9-5-2000           Ch. 73, Sch. II
167           1-6-2003           36.001
169           9-2-2003           37.04
176           4-6-2004           Ch. 73, Sch. III
178           9-7-2004           37.02
179           12-7-2004          Ch. 74, Sch. I
180           12-7-2004          Ch. 74, Sch. I
181           12-7-2004          Ch. 74, Sch. I
–           12-7-2004          TSO III
182           3-1-2005           37.05
183           - -2006            TSO III
184           11-6-2006          Ch. 74, Sch. I
185           12-5-2006          37.05
188           2-6-2007           35.03
191           9-18-2007          Ch. 74, Sch. I
194           11-20-2007         TSO III
195           12-18-2007         Ch. 74, Sch. I
197           12-18-2007         36.001
198           1-7-2008           36.001
200           2-19-2008          37.02
204           3-4-2008           TSO III
207           6-17-2008          TSO III
210           1-5-2009           37.06
220           2-16-2010          37.04
42-09/06/2011 9-6-2011           52.11
3-10/04/2011  10-4-2011          132.99
01-2012       1-3-2012           37.02
4-2012        6-19-2012          Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
6-2014        6-3-2014           Ch. 74, Sch. I
12-04-2014    12-4-2014          Ch. 74, Sch. I
12-23-2014    12-23-2014         Ch. 74, Sch. I
227           8-2-2016           Ch. 73, Sch. I
228           12-5-2016          37.02
235           12-5-2017          72.08
236           12-27-2017         130.02
242           4-3-2018           Ch. 73, Sch. III
243           11-6-2018          Ch. 74, Sch. I
                                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
3          3-21-1954     132.01,
                         132.99
6          3-14-1958     35.01
5          4-30-1958     90.02,
                         90.99
7          7-28-1958     51.01
8          10-15-1965    131.02,
                         131.99
9          10-14-1966    TSO II
11         2-28-1967     130.01,
                         130.99
13         9-1-1968      51.02
15         4-19-1970     30.01
16         6-1-1970      TSO I
17         9-2-1970      90.01,
                         90.99
                         36.095—
18         3-15-1972     36.099,
                         36.999
21         - -1974       50.20—
                         50.22
19         2-28-1974     36.075—
                         36.082
                         150.45—
22         11-28-1975    150.54,
                         150.99
                         150.30—
24         11-30-1976    150.34,
                         150.99
                         91.55—
26         9-15-1980     91.57,
                         91.99
                         91.40—
27         11-15-1982    91.43,
                         91.99
                         91.15—
28         1-31-1983     91.28,
                         91.99
30         3-15-1984     70.01
31         8-15-1985     TSO II
32         eff. 1-1-1986 31.02
                         91.01—
35         2-27-1988     91.04,
                         91.99
                         112.01—
14         12-16-1989    112.13,
                         112.99
36         9-7-1990      TSO III
37         5-17-1991     TSO I
38         5-19-1992     TSO II
40         1-18-1994     TSO III
                         52.01—
42         6-18-1996     52.14,
                         52.99
43         9-3-1996      31.02
                         71.01—
46         1-6-1997      71.04,
                         71.99
48         11-5-1997     TSO III
                         51.15—
49         12-16-1997    51.21,
                         51.99
50         12-15-1998    33.35—
                         33.40
                         92.20—
51         6-1-1999      92.23,
                         92.99
52         10-5-1999     33.01—
                         33.06
                         151.01—
20         3-20-2001     151.06,
                         151.99
                         72.01—
53         10-16-2001    72.07,
                         72.99,
                         Ch. 73, Sch. II
54         3-19-2002     36.002
                         110.01—
56         10-15-2002    110.11,
                         110.99
                         50.01—
57         2-18-2003     50.09,
                         50.99
                         53.01—
58         12- -2003     53.06,
                         53.99
59         6-15-2004     150.15
2004-07-20 7-20-2004     36.001,
                         36.045
60         8-3-2004      TSO III
70         8-3-2004      150.16
63         9-21-2004     35.02
                         92.01—
63A        - -2006       92.05,
                         92.99
61         3-3-2006      34.01—
                         34.14
                         92.35—
60         3-21-2006     92.39,
                         92.99
                         155.001—
                         155.003,
                         155.015—
                         155.026,
                         155.040—
                         155.043,
                         155.055—
65         7-3-2007      155.063,
                         155.075—
                         155.077,
                         155.090—
                         155.097,
                         155.110,
                         155.120—
                         155.127,
                         155.999
                         36.001,
66         10-2-2007     36.030—
                         36.033
68         8-18-2009     110.12,
                         110.13
                         153.01—
67         4- -2010      153.16,
                         153.99
69-2010    6-1-2010      TSO III
                         36.001,
71         1-3-2012      36.015—
                         36.018
                         152.001,
                         152.015—
                         152.019,
                         152.030—
                         152.040,
                         152.055—
                         152.058,
                         152.070—
72         2-7-2012      152.076,
                         152.090—
                         152.093,
                         152.105,
                         152.106,
                         152.120,
                         152.121,
                         152.135,
                         152.136,
                         152.999
74         2-5-2013      150.01,
                         150.99
                         90.15—
75         2-5-2013      90.20,
                         90.99
76         12-23-2014    34.02
78         3-3-2015      TSO III
79         3-3-2015      TSO III
80         9-5-2017      32.01
80         3-6-2018      TSO III
                         154.001—
                         154.011,
                         154.025—
                         154.029,
                         154.040—
                         154.046,
81         2-5-2019      154.060—
                         154.062,
                         154.075,
                         154.085—
                         154.087,
                         154.100—
                         154.104,
                         154.999
                        
 
