   TATAMY BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 305-2024, passed 8-5-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 283-2020
   BOROUGH OF TATAMY
   NORTHAMPTON COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE BOROUGH OF TATAMY,
NORTHAMPTON COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA; CONSOLIDATING, REVISING, AMENDING AND
REPEALING CERTAIN ORDINANCES; ENACTING CERTAIN NEW PROVISIONS; PROVIDING A
PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING THE CODE AND FOR THE CITATION OF THE CODE AND THE
EFFECTIVE DATE THEREOF; ESTABLISHING RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE
CODE; SAVING CERTAIN PROVISIONS FROM REPEAL; AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR
VIOLATION. SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSING ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC WORKS, TRAFFIC CODE,
GENERAL REGULATIONS, BUSINESS REGULATIONS, GENERAL OFFENSES AND LAND USAGE
The Borough of Tatamy hereby ordains:
Section 1. Adoption. The “Code of Ordinances, Borough of Tatamy,” as prepared
and published for the said Borough of Tatamy, is hereby adopted as a
consolidation, codification and revision of the ordinances of the Borough of
Tatamy. Titles 1 through 15 thereof contain the text of the body of all general
administrative and regulatory ordinances of the Borough of Tatamy organized as
follows:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title 1  General Provisions
Title 2  [Reserved]
Title 3  Administration
Title 4  [Reserved]
Title 5  Public Works
Title 6  [Reserved]
Title 7  Traffic Code
Title 8  [Reserved]
Title 9  General Regulations
Title 10 [Reserved]
Title 11 Business Regulations
Title 12 [Reserved]
Title 13 General Offenses
Title 14 [Reserved]
Title 15 Land Usage
 
The Appendix of the volume lists, by subject matter, in chronological order,
the titles (or an abstract of title) of enactments of special nature or of
historical interest, for the complete text of which the official records of the
Borough of Tatamy shall be authoritative.
Section 2. Citation and Effective Date. The codification referred to in Section
1 of this ordinance shall be known and cited officially as the "Borough of
Tatamy Code of Ordinances," and all future ordinances shall make reference
thereto. This ordinance shall become effective on December 17, 2020 as required
by law.
Section 3. Saving Clause. The provisions of the Borough of Tatamy Code of
Ordinances, so far as they are the same as those ordinances and regulations in
force immediately prior to the adoption of said Code, are intended as a
continuation of such ordinances and regulations and not as a new enactment. The
provisions of the Borough of Tatamy Code of Ordinances shall not affect any
suit or prosecution pending or to be instituted to enforce any of the prior
ordinances or regulations.
Section 4. New Enactments, Amendments and Repeals. As a necessary part of
codification, certain ordinances are hereby enacted, amended and repealed.
Section 5. Land Use Amendments. The Borough of Tatamy Code of Ordinances is
hereby amended as is more fully shown in the complete text of Title 15 thereof.
Section 6. Procedural Changes. Minor procedural changes have been made to
existing Borough of Tatamy ordinances.
Section 7. Amending the Code of Ordinances. The procedure for amending the Code
of Ordinances in the future shall include the citation of the Title, Part,
Section and subsection to be amended, revised, repealed or added as follows:
      A.   Amendment or Revision - "Title                , Part
                   , Section            , Subsection                   is
hereby amended [revised] to read as follows. . ."
      B.   Additions - "Title                   , Part                , Section
                 , Subsection          is hereby amended by the addition of the
following. . ."
      C.   Repeal - "Title                     , Part                 , Section
              , Subsection              is hereby repealed in its entirety."
Section 8. Responsibility for Code of Ordinances. It shall be the
responsibility of the Borough of Tatamy Secretary to maintain an up-to-date
certified copy of the Code of Ordinances. This copy shall be the official copy
of the Borough of Tatamy Code of Ordinances and shall be available for public
inspection.
Section 9. Penalties. It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter or
tamper with the Code of Ordinances in any manner which will intentionally
misrepresent the laws of the Borough of Tatamy. Whosoever shall violate this
Section shall be guilty of an offense under § 4911, "Tampering with Public
Records or Information," of the Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S.A. § 4911, and shall be
prosecuted under that Section of the law.
Section 10. Severability of Parts of Codification. It is hereby declared to be
the intention of the Borough of Tatamy that the Titles, Parts, Sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this codification are severable.
If any Section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is declared
unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid by the judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining, Parts, Titles, Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
of this codification.
This Ordinance shall become effective immediately.
ENACTED AND ORDAINED on this 7th day of December, 2020.
BOROUGH COUNCIL OF TATAMY BOROUGH
ATTEST:
_____________________________      By: ___________________________________
Deanne Werkheiser, Secretary         Robert Hayes, President of Tatamy Borough
Council
 
   APPROVED this the 7th day of December, 2020.
 
ATTEST:
_____________________________      By: ___________________________________
Deanne Werkheiser, Secretary         Christopher Moren, Mayor
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for the Borough of Tatamy, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained and enacted as a single ordinance of the Borough of Tatamy and shall
be known and designated as the Borough of Tatamy Code, for which designation
“code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (3)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the Borough of Tatamy adopting the
Codified Ordinances of Tatamy Borough, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the
Borough Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Tatamy, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Public Law 432, of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Tatamy, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Northampton, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the County of Northampton.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer when
appointed by the Borough Council having the powers and duties contained in the
Borough Code unless changed by Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Borough of Tatamy, including this code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for and act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY/TREASURER and BOROUGH SECRETARY/TREASURER. An appointed
position charged with the responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording
and certifying ordinances; attesting to the execution of documents; and is the
custodian of borough records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY/
TREASURER shall not be a member of the Borough Council and serves an indefinite
term at the pleasure of the Borough Council. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall serve
as the chief administrative officer of the Borough Council until a Borough
Manager is appointed. All references to Borough Manager shall be deemed to mean
the Borough Secretary until a Borough Manager is appointed.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment
of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and resolutions,
and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions shall date
from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution. All the
provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and are hereby
reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is the intention
of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the code is hereby
reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances adopted prior to this code that are
in conflict with the provisions of this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this code, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   The Borough Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Borough Manager’s office for public use, up-to-date. All changes in the
code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this code, which the Borough Council specifically adopts as part of the
code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the changes or new
ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code book and
inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division or part thereof determined
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the
borough and shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
      Statutory reference:
         Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of these
codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $3,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $300 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinance, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines, see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOROUGH ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   BOROUGH PLANS AND POLICIES
      
33.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
34.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Council and Mayor
   
30.01   Council meetings by way of telecommunication device
   
30.02   Compensation
   
30.03   Limits of public comment at open meetings
Borough Employees
   
30.15   Combination of the position of Borough Secretary and Borough Treasurer
   
30.16   Individual procurement cards
   
30.17   Non-Uniform Pension Plan
   
30.18   Uniform Pension Plan
   
30.19   Borough Manager
COUNCIL AND MAYOR
§ 30.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS BY WAY OF TELECOMMUNICATION DEVICE.
   (A)   Any duly elected member of Council shall be permitted to participate
in Council and committee meetings by means of a telecommunication device such
as a telephone or computer terminals, which permit at a minimum audio
communications between locations provided the borough comply with the following
prerequisites.
      (1)   A majority of the membership of Council then in office must be
physically present at the advertised meeting place for said meeting and a
quorum is established at the convening or reconvening of the meeting. If after
convening or reconvening a meeting, a member, who has been disqualified from
voting as a matter of law but remains physically present at the meeting then in
such case the member participating by telecommunication device shall be counted
to maintain a quorum.
      (2)   The telecommunication device used by the member not actually in
attendance at the meeting is such that both the Council members not physically
present at the meeting and the members of Council physically at the meeting can
speak and hear the votes and comments of any other Council member.
      (3)   The telecommunication device must allow all members to speak to and
hear the comments of the public who are physically present and the vote of any
members of Council not physically present at the meeting.
   (B)   The use of telecommunication devices by a Council member to
participate in a Council or committee meeting shall only be permitted for the
following instances, which preclude the Council member from being physically
present at the meeting, to wit:
      (1)   Illness or disability of said member of Council;
      (2)   Care for the ill or newborn in the Council member’s immediate
family;
      (3)   Emergency; or
      (4)   Family business and travel.
   (C)   A member of Council shall not be disqualified from voting on any issue
before Council solely because the member has previously expressed an opinion on
the issue either in an official or unofficial capacity.
(Res. 2015-02, passed 4-6-2015)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   From and after January 1, 1994, members of the Council of the
borough shall receive compensation in the amount of $75 per month.
      (2)   The requirement for Council members and sewer authority members to
attend at least one regular meeting during the month in order to receive
monthly compensation is deleted.
   (B)   From and after January 1, 2010, the Mayor of the borough shall receive
a salary in the amount of $1,300 per annum, payable in monthly installments of
$108.33 on warrants authorized by the Borough Council. Said salary shall be in
lieu of all costs and fees allowed the Mayor.
(Ord. 154-1992, passed 7-6-1992; Ord. 163-1994, passed 1-3-1994; Ord. 246-2010,
passed 1-4-2010)
§ 30.03 LIMITS OF PUBLIC COMMENT AT OPEN MEETINGS.
   (A)   An agenda shall be prepared for each monthly meeting and any special
meeting called by the Council. The agenda shall list all business scheduled to
be heard and deliberated by Council at the said meeting. Copies of the agenda
shall be made available to all members of the public attending the meeting.
   (B)   Public comment shall be the first listed item of business on the
agenda. In the event that any item of business is brought to Council for
deliberation and the item is not listed on the agenda, the Council President
shall allow public comment on those items at their discretion.
   (C)   Any member of the public wishing to address Council on any matters
appearing on the agenda shall sign a “sign in” sheet prior to the meeting,
listing their name, and company if appearing in a representative capacity. The
individual wishing to address Council shall provide a mailing address along
with the name.
   (D)   Public comment by each individual listed shall be limited to no more
than five minutes. All comments shall be addressed to the Council President and
shall not be addressed to any member of the public.
   (E)   Using their discretion, the Council President or Vice President, while
presiding over any meeting, may waive the limitations imposed by this section
when considering the number of citizens who wish to speak or the nature and
amount of business to be conducted at any given meeting. In no event shall the
Council President further limit public comment beyond the standards set forth
in this section. If the presiding officer anticipates that the amount of public
comment will unduly interfere with the transaction of business at the meeting,
then the meeting may be adjourned to another date within ten days when the
matter causing the large amount of public comment shall be addressed. No action
shall be taken on that particular item until the subsequent meeting is held.
   (F)   Any rude, profane, or insulting comments will not be allowed. The
presiding officer shall advise the offender of this provision upon the first
violation. If any further violation occurs by the same individual, that
individual shall forfeit their right to speak and will be asked to leave. If
they fail to comply, they shall be compelled to leave by the Tatamy Police.
   (G)   All resolutions to the contrary of the provisions herein, previously
adopted, are hereby superseded.
(Res. 2020-04, passed 8-3-2020)
BOROUGH EMPLOYEES
§ 30.15 COMBINATION OF THE POSITION OF BOROUGH SECRETARY AND BOROUGH TREASURER.
   (A)   The positions of Borough Treasurer and Borough Secretary are and shall
hereafter be combined into one position as permitted by 8 Pa.C.S. § 1104.
   (B)   The new position shall be known as Secretary/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Borough Council shall from time to time appoint a person to serve
as Secretary/Treasurer which person shall be ultimately answerable to the
Borough Council.
   (D)   The Secretary/Treasurer, after reviving the permission of the Borough
Council, shall be permitted to appoint such assistants and subordinates as are
deemed necessary.
   (E)   The duties and obligation of Borough Secretary/Treasurer shall, at a
minimum, be those imposed by the laws of the commonwealth.
   (F)   Other duties, the rate of pay and all other matters pertaining to the
Secretary/Treasurer shall be established by Council upon a vote of the majority
of the members present at any regular or special meeting of Council.
   (G)   The Secretary/Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 274-2017, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 30.16 INDIVIDUAL PROCUREMENT CARDS.
   (A)   The Council President is authorized to enter into an agreement with
Bank of Montreal to secure procurement cards for each authorized employee of
the borough under such terms and conditions as approved by its legal counsel
and the borough.
   (B)   As a condition precedent to receiving the procurement card, each
authorized employee shall execute a procurement card use agreement.
   (C)   As a condition precedent to receiving the procurement card, the
Council shall establish a monetary limit of authority for each employee’s use
of the procurement card.
   (D)   (1)   As a condition precedent to issuance of a procurement card, the
Council shall establish in writing purchasing parameters in accordance with the
law including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A listing of goods and services which may be procured using the
card;
         (b)   Authorized vendors; and
         (c)   Daily/weekly/monthly/annual monetary procurement card limits for
each employee recipient of the procurement card.
      (2)   Employee recipients shall submit a list of the borough goods and
services to be annually purchased with the card, which shall be approved in
writing by the Council.
   (E)   As a condition precedent to receiving the procurement card, each
employee recipient shall sign an agreement of indemnity, which is included in
the procurement card use agreement.
   (F)   The borough hereby expressly authorizes the President to execute the
procurement card use agreement and all other necessary documents on its behalf.
   (G)   Upon receipt and use of a procurement card, the cardholder shall
submit receipts and such information as periodically requested by the Council.
   (H)   The Council shall establish procedures and internal controls to
implement this program, to ensure that procurement cards are being used only
for authorized borough business purposes and in compliance with applicable law,
and to allow for easily verifiable audits of their use. These procedures and
internal controls and any changes thereto shall be submitted to the borough at
least annually for its review and input.
   (I)   If the borough has indicated to PFM that the account will be initially
debited in connection with the borough’s use of the procurement cards will be
an account of the borough with the Pennsylvania Local Government Investment
Trust. The borough will specify the specific account to PFM, which serves as
administrator of the Pennsylvania Local Government Investment Trust, and PFM is
authorized by the borough to debit such account and make payment to Bank of
Montreal in connection with the borough’s use of the procurement cards. In the
event the borough elects to use another account with another institution, it
shall seek the approval of PFM.
(Res. 2013-06, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 30.17 NON-UNIFORM PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   The borough, having established a non-uniform pension plan
administered by the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System (the System),
hereby elects to amend its Non-Uniform Pension Plan administered by the System
in accordance with Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, 53
P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq. (Retirement Law), and does hereby agree to be bound by
all the requirements and provisions of the Retirement Law and the Municipal
Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq., and
to assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member
municipalities.
   (B)   As part of this section, the borough agrees that the System shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended Non-Uniform
Pension Plan document entered into between the Pennsylvania Municipal
Retirement Board and the borough effective as of the date specified in the
adoption agreement (the contract).
   (C)   The borough acknowledges that by passage and adoption of this section,
the borough officially accepts the contract and the financial obligations
resulting from the administration of the contract.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the contract shall be made by the borough in accordance with the Retirement
Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act. The
borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due to the
benefit structure set forth in the contract.
   (E)   The borough intends this section to be the complete authorization of
the contract, as amended and it shall become effective as of the date specified
in the adoption agreement, which is the effective date of the contract, as
amended.
   (F)   A duly certified copy of this section and an executed contract shall
be filed with the system.
(Ord. 275-2018, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 279-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 30.18 UNIFORM PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   The borough, having established a uniform pension plan administered by
the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System (the System), hereby elects to
amend its Uniform Pension Plan administered by the System in accordance with
Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et
seq. (Retirement Law), and does hereby agree to be bound by all the
requirements and provisions of the Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension
Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq., and to
assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member
municipalities.
   (B)   As part of this section, the borough agrees that the System shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended Uniform Pension
Plan document entered into between the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Board
and the borough effective as of the date specified in the adoption agreement
(the contract).
   (C)   The borough acknowledges that by passage and adoption of this section,
the borough officially accepts the contract and the financial obligations
resulting from the administration of the contract.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the contract shall be made by the borough in accordance with the Retirement
Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act. The
borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due to the
benefit structure set forth in the contract.
   (E)   The borough intends this section to be the complete authorization of
the contract, as amended and it shall become effective as of the date specified
in the adoption agreement, which is the effective date of the contract, as
amended.
   (F)   A duly certified copy of this section and an executed contract shall
be filed with the System.
(Ord. 276-2018, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 280-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 30.19 BOROUGH MANAGER.
   (A)   Definitions. Terms used in this section shall have the following
meanings, whether or not the terms are capitalized. Unless otherwise expressly
stated, terms not defined in this section shall be construed consistent with
their common and ordinary meaning.
      BOROUGH. Borough of Tatamy.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer when
appointed by the Borough Council having the powers and duties contained in the
Borough Code unless changed by Council.
      SECRETARY/TREASURER and BOROUGH SECRETARY/TREASURER. An appointed
position charged with the responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording
and certifying ordinances; attesting to the execution of documents; and is the
custodian of borough records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY/
TREASURER shall not be a member of the Borough Council and serves an indefinite
term at the pleasure of the Borough Council. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall serve
as the chief administrative officer of the Borough Council until a Borough
Manager is appointed. All references to Borough Manager shall be deemed to mean
the Borough Secretary until a Borough Manager is appointed.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Manager shall be chosen on the basis of
supervisory and administrative abilities with special reference to actual
experience in and knowledge of accepted practices in respect of the duties of
the office as outlined herein.
   (C)   Bond. Before entering upon their duties, the Manager shall give a bond
to the borough with corporate surety to be approved by the Borough Council in
the sum of $50,000 conditioned for the faithful performance of duties. The
premium for the bond shall be paid by the borough.
   (D)   Compensation. The salary and other compensation of the Borough Manager
shall be fixed from time to time by motion of Council.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Manager shall be the administrative officer of the borough and
shall be responsible to the Council as a whole for the proper and efficient
administration of the affairs of the borough. The Manager's power and duties
shall relate to the general management of borough business not expressly by
statute imposed or conferred upon other borough officers.
      (2)   Subject to recall by ordinance of Council and the limitations
imposed by the Borough Code (see 8 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.) pertaining to the
Police Department and other limitations in the Borough Code now in force or
hereinafter enacted, the powers and duties of the Borough Manager shall include
the following:
         (a)   Supervise and be responsible for the activities of all municipal
departments designated by Council;
         (b)   Upon prior approval of Borough Council, shall hire and when
necessary for the good of the service, may without prior approval suspend all
employees under their supervision, provided that persons covered by the civil
service provisions of the Borough Code shall be hired, suspended or discharged
in accordance with such provisions; provided, further, that the Manager shall
report, at the next meeting thereafter of Council any action taken by authority
of this division;
         (c)   Prepare, with the assistance of the Finance Committee, and
submit to Council before the close of the fiscal year, or on such alternate
date as Council shall determine, a budget for the next fiscal year and an
explanatory budget message. In preparing the budget, the Manager shall obtain
from the head of each department, agency, board, or officer estimates of
revenues and expenditures and other supporting data. The Manager and Finance
Committee shall review such estimates and may revise them before submitting the
budget to the Council for their review and approval prior to adoption;
         (d)   Shall be responsible for the administration of the budget after
its adoption by the Council. The Manager from time to time shall advise Council
how each department, agency, board or service is adhering to their individual
budget;
         (e)   Shall attend all meetings of Council and its committees with the
right to take part in the discussion and shall receive notice of all special
meetings of Council or its committees;
         (f)   Shall advise the Secretary/Treasurer of any matters which may be
included on the agenda for each meeting of Council and supply facts pertinent
thereto;
         (g)   Shall keep the Council informed as to the conduct of borough
affairs; submit periodic reports on the condition of the borough finance and
such other reports as the Council requests; and make such recommendations to
the Council as deemed necessary;
         (h)   Shall submit to Council as soon as possible after the close of
the fiscal year, a complete report on the financial and administrative
activities of the borough for the preceding year;
         (i)   Shall, together with the Secretary/Treasurer, see that the
provisions of all franchises, leases, permits, and privileges granted by the
borough are observed;
         (j)   May employ, by and with the prior approval of Council, experts
and consultants to perform work and to advise in connection with any of the
functions of the borough as directed;
         (k)   With prior approval of Council, shall attend to the letting of
contracts in due form and law, shall supervise the performance and faithful
execution of the same except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed upon
some other borough officer by statute;
         (l)   Shall see that all money owed the borough is promptly paid and
that proper proceedings are taken for the security and collection of all the
borough's claims;
         (m)   Shall be the purchasing officer of the borough, and shall
purchase, in accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code, all supplies
and equipment for the various agencies, boards, departments and other offices
of the borough. Shall have authority to purchase up to $1,000. Any purchases
above that amount shall be with borough approval. Shall keep an account of all
purchases and shall, from time to time, or when directed by Council, make a
full written report, thereof. Shall also issue rules and regulations, subject
to the approval of Council, governing the requisition and purchasing of all
municipal supplies and equipment;
         (n)   Shall receive and investigate all complaints regarding services
or personnel of the borough and shall report thereon to Council; and
         (o)   Shall cooperate with the Borough Council at all times and in all
matters that the best interests of the borough and of the general public may be
maintained.
(Ord. 284-2021, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 31: BOROUGH ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Fireman’s Relief Association
   
31.02   Department of Borough Planning
§ 31.01 FIREMAN’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   The Borough Fireman’s Relief Association is officially recognized by
the Borough Council as an organization formed for the purpose of maintaining an
association for benefits and protective purposes to its members and their
families in case of death, sickness, temporary or permanent disability or
accident from the funds collected therein.
   (B)   The aforesaid Borough Fireman’s Relief Association be and is hereby
designated by the Borough Council to receive said funds as due and payable to
the Borough Secretary/Treasurer by the Treasurer of the state from the 2% tax
on premiums from foreign fire insurance companies.
   (C)   There is hereby annually appropriated from the borough treasury all
such sum or sums of money that may hereafter be paid into the borough treasury
by the Treasurer of the state on account of taxes paid on premiums by foreign
fire insurance companies in pursuance to an act of Assembly in such cases made
and provided.
(Res. 1934-03, passed 3- -1934)
§ 31.02 DEPARTMENT OF BOROUGH PLANNING.
   A department of the borough is hereby created, to be known as the Department
of Borough Planning, which shall be in the charge of the Borough Planning
Commission. The said Borough Planning Commission shall be constituted as
provided by law and shall perform all the duties and may exercise all the
powers conferred upon borough planning commissions by law.
(Ord. 22-1961, passed 7-3-1961)
CHAPTER 32: BOROUGH PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Multi-Municipal Comprehensive Plan
   
32.02   Lehigh Valley Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
32.03   Emergency Operations Plan
Emergency Services
   
32.15   Emergency services mutual aid agreement
   
32.16   Reimbursement of emergency service costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MULTI-MUNICIPAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The borough hereby authorizes execution of the attached Nazareth Area
Multimunicipal Comprehensive Plan Intermunicipal Cooperative Implementation
Agreement, marked Exhibit A, and incorporated by reference as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 220-2006, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 32.02 LEHIGH VALLEY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Lehigh Valley 2013 Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the
official Hazard Mitigation Plan of the borough.
(Res. 2013-05, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   Section 7503 of the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Services Code,
35 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7101 et seq., mandates that the borough prepare, maintain and
keep current an emergency operations plan for the prevention and minimization
of injury and damage caused by a major emergency or disaster within this
borough.
   (B)   In response to the mandate stated above, this borough has prepared an
emergency operations plan to provide prompt and effective emergency response
procedures to be followed in the event of a major emergency or disaster.
   (C)   This borough has also prepared an emergency operations plan in order
to reduce the potential affects of a major emergency or disaster and to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of this borough.
   (D)   The Borough Council hereby approves the Emergency Management
Operations Plan for the prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused
by disaster, for prompt and efficient response to disaster and for disaster
emergency relief and recovery in consonance with the Pennsylvania Emergency
Management Plan and County Emergency Management Plan. This Plan shall be
reviewed every two years to make certain that it conforms with the requirements
of the County Emergency Operations Plan.
(Res. 2000-01, passed 1-3-2000; Res. 2002-02, passed 7-1-2002; Res. 2003-01,
passed 8-4-2003; Res. 2011-02, passed 9-6-2011; Res. 2019-01, passed 6-3-2019;
Res. 2022-010, passed 10-3-2022)
EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 32.15 EMERGENCY SERVICES MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   (A)   When used in this agreement, the terms POLITICAL SUBDIVISION and
MUNICIPALITY are interchangeable and shall mean any county, city, borough,
township or incorporated town or authority thereof (Boroughs of Bath, Chapman,
Nazareth, Stockertown, Tatamy and Townships of Bushkill, East Allen, Lower
Nazareth, Moore and Upper Nazareth).
   (B)   Each above-named municipality agrees to furnish emergency services to
any other above-named municipality upon request of such other municipality at
the direction of the County Emergency Management Agency or other organization
exercising coordination responsibilities pursuant to the EMS Code. The
emergency services, as defined by 35 Pa.C.S.A. § 7102, may involve the
preparation for and the carrying out of functions, other than functions for
which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and
provide emergency repair of injury and damage resulting from disaster, together
with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for the
carrying out of these functions. The functions include, without limitation,
firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue,
engineering, disaster warning services, communications, radiological shelter,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, emergency resource
management, existing or properly assigned functions of plant protections,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civilian protection.
   (C)   Each municipality authorizes the providing of emergency services by
emergency services personnel of other municipalities, if and when such services
are provided pursuant to the exercise of emergency management coordination
responsibilities.
   (D)   This agreement shall apply to the following circumstances and/or
situations:
      (1)   The dispatch of emergency services equipment and/or personnel by
one or more municipality in response to the occurrence or threat of a human-
made, natural or war-caused disaster;
      (2)   The distribution of materials, supplies, equipment and other forms
of aid by and between municipalities;
      (3)   The staffing and equipping of an emergency operations center
responsible for coordinating the emergency response activities of one or more
municipality affected by an actual or imminent human-made, natural or war-
caused disaster emergency;
      (4)   The dispatch of emergency services equipment, material and/or
personnel by one or more municipality in response to a declaration of local
disaster emergency by one or more municipality;
      (5)   Response to incidents (actual or imminent) which endanger the
health, safety or welfare of the public, which require the use of special
equipment, trained personnel or personnel in larger numbers than are locally
available in order to reduce, counteract or remove the danger caused by the
incident; and
      (6)   Participation in exercises, drills or other training activities
designed to train personnel to prepare for, cope with or prevent the occurrence
of any disaster emergency.
   (E)   It is mutually understood and agreed that the providing of and
direction of disaster emergency management services is the responsibility of
the lowest level of government affected. When two or more municipalities are
affected, the County Emergency Management Agency shall exercise responsibility
for coordination and support to the area of operations.
   (F)   Any request for aid hereunder shall state the amount and type of
equipment or personnel requested, but the amount and type of equipment and
number of personnel to be furnished shall be determined by the responding
municipality. The responding municipality may, at its discretion, terminate or
recall emergency services furnished by it. No municipality shall be held liable
to another municipality for failure to supply assistance at the request of the
other municipality or entity responsible for coordination of emergency
management services.
   (G)   Personnel of the responding municipality shall report to the officer
in charge of the requesting municipality or his or her designee at the location
to which the equipment or personnel are dispatched, but such equipment or
personnel shall remain under the operational control of the municipality
furnishing the emergency services.
   (H)   No political subdivision shall be required to pay any charge or
compensation to any other political subdivision for services rendered
hereunder. Each political subdivision remains liable for the salaries of its
personnel in the same manner as if the personnel were assigned to duty in the
home political subdivision, even though said personnel are responding to an
emergency in another political subdivision.
   (I)   In the event that the services of a private entity are involved
herein, the municipality receiving such services may be required to compensate
such entity in such manner as provided for in an agreement between the entity
and another municipality for the type of services provided.
   (J)   Each political subdivision shall maintain worker’s compensation
insurance to cover emergency services personnel employed by the political
subdivision. If injury or loss occurs under any circumstances to any emergency
services employee in a political subdivision other than that of his or her
employer, the employing political subdivision shall be solely liable for
payments of all worker’s compensation claims arising from said injury or loss.
Each political subdivision hereby warrants in writing to the others that it has
conferred with its worker’s compensation insurance carrier and that the
provision in this agreement is lawful and in accordance with the insurance
policies for worker’s compensation now held by the respective political
subdivisions.
   (K)   Each political subdivision shall maintain adequate general and public
liability insurance policies which cover the emergency services activities of
the political subdivision when acting pursuant to the terms of this agreement.
   (L)   No political subdivision shall present any claim of any nature against
any other political subdivision for compensation for any loss, damage or
personal injury or death occurring in consequence of the performance of the
services called for in this agreement.
   (M)   This agreement augments any prior mutual aid agreement between any of
the political subdivisions that are parties to this agreement.
   (N)   This agreement shall become effective for each political subdivision
participating herein upon the adoption of an ordinance by the political
subdivision providing for the entry into this agreement. This agreement shall
continue in force and remain binding upon each political subdivision until the
governing body of such political subdivision shall take action to withdraw
therefrom. Any political subdivision that is party to this agreement may
withdraw upon 90-days’ written notice to each of the other parties. Upon such
event, however, this agreement shall continue to exist among the remaining
parties.
   (O)   In the ordinance codified herein, the Borough Council hereby approved
and authorized execution of the emergency services mutual aid agreement.
(Ord. 230-2008, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 32.16 REIMBURSEMENT OF EMERGENCY SERVICE COSTS.
   (A)   Any person who intentionally, negligently, accidentally or otherwise
causes a motor vehicle accident, hazardous material or substance spill and any
other act or omission necessitating the provision of emergency services by the
borough or the Borough Fire Company within the boundaries of the borough or the
service area of the Fire Company, shall be liable for all costs incurred by the
borough and/or the Fire Company as a result of such accident, spill or other
act or omission. The remedy provided by this section shall be in addition to
any other remedies provided by law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substances or materials in quantity or form
which, in the determination of the borough or its designee, poses an
unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or
property or to the ecological balance of the environment, and shall include,
but not be limited to, such substances as explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables,
corrosives or any materials listed in the hazardous substances list of the
State Department of Labor and Industry.
   (C)   The authority to recover costs under this section shall not include
actual fire suppression services which are normally or usually provided by the
Fire Company.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the charges for use of the borough and
Fire Company emergency services equipment, materials and personnel shall be
established based on the actual cost for personnel, equipment and materials
incurred by the borough and the Fire Company for clean up of the substance
spill.
(Ord. 177, passed 8-3-1998)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Imposition of tax
   
33.003   No exemption from tax
   
33.004   Taxpayer returns, declarations and payments
   
33.005   Employer withholding, remittance and tax returns
   
33.006   Tax Officer
   
33.007   Interest, penalties, costs and fines
   
33.008   Purpose/repeal
   
33.009   Construction
   
33.010   Effective date
Realty Transfer Tax
   
33.025   Short title
   
33.026   Definitions
   
33.027   Tax rate
   
33.028   Properties partly outside borough
   
33.029   When payable
   
33.030   Consideration to be stated
   
33.031   Tax stamps to be affixed
   
33.032   Duty of Tax Collector; unlawful use of stamps
   
33.033   Recorder of Deeds; bond premiums
   
33.034   Enforcement by Tax Collector
   
33.035   Duty of Recorder of Deeds; commission
   
33.036   Realty transfer tax regulations
Local Services Tax
   
33.050   Title
   
33.051   Definitions
   
33.052   Levy
   
33.053   Duty of employers
   
33.054   Returns
   
33.055   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
33.056   Self-employed individuals
   
33.057   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation
   
33.058   Employers and self-employed individuals residing beyond the corporate
limits of the borough
   
33.059   Exemption
   
33.060   Administration of tax
   
33.061   Suits for collection
   
33.062   Saving clause
   
33.063   Re-enactment
Taxpayers Bill of Rights
   
33.075   Definition
   
33.076   Applicability
   
33.077   Taxpayers bill of rights disclosure statement
   
33.078   Taxpayers bill of rights notice
   
33.079   Information request extension procedure notice
   
33.080   Local tax appeals procedure
   
33.081   Tax appeal information and regulations
Occupation Tax
   
33.095   Title
   
33.096   Definitions
   
33.097   Levy
   
33.098   Duty of employers
   
33.099   Returns
   
33.100   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
33.101   Self-employed individuals
   
33.102   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation
   
33.103   Employers and self-employed individuals residing beyond the corporate
limits of the borough
   
33.104   Exemption
   
33.105   Administration of tax
   
33.106   Suits for collection
   
33.107   Saving clause
   
33.108   Effective date
Imposition and Retention of Costs of Collection on Delinquent Taxes
   
33.120   Adoption of cost of collection schedule
   
33.121   Retaining said costs of collection
State Government Investment Trust
   
33.135   Authorizing borough funds in the State Government Investment Trust
Compliance with Professional Services Contract Provisions
   
33.145   Procedures for compliance with professional services contract
provisions of Act 44 of 2009
Collection Procedures
   
33.155   Appointment of Solicitor; interest assessment; additional fees for
unpaid real estate taxes
   
33.156   Property tax penalty waiver provisions
 
   
33.999   Penalty
EARNED INCOME AND NET PROFITS TAX
§ 33.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, all terms defined in the Local Tax Enabling
Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., shall have the meanings set forth therein,
except as modified below. The following terms shall have the meanings set forth
herein.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. January 1, 2012.
   LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT. The Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq., and as amended in the future, including any regulations adopted by the
Department of Community and Economic Development thereunder.
   TAX. The tax on earned income and net profits imposed by this subchapter.
   TAX OFFICER. The person or entity appointed as tax officer pursuant to the
Local Tax Enabling Act to collect the tax in the TCD.
   TAXPAYER. A person or business required under this subchapter or the Local
Tax Enabling Act to file a tax return or to pay tax.
   TAX RETURN. A form prescribed by the Department of Community and Economic
Development, or by the Tax Officer, and approved by the TCC, for reporting the
amount of tax or other amount owed or required to be withheld, remitted or
reported under this subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 to December 31 in a single calendar
year.
   TCC. The tax collection committee established to govern and oversee the
collection of earned income tax within the TCD under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
   TCD. The Northampton Tax Collection District, or any future tax collection
district, to which the borough or any part of the borough is assigned under the
Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.002 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   General purpose resident tax. The borough hereby imposes a tax for
general revenue purposes at the rate of 1.2% on earned income and net profits
of residents of the borough.
   (B)   General purpose municipal nonresident tax. The borough also imposes a
tax for general revenue purposes at the rate of 1.2% on earned income and net
profits derived by an individual nonresident from any work, business,
profession or activity, of any kind engaged in within the boundaries of
borough.
   (C)   Ongoing tax. The tax shall continue at the above rates during the
current tax year and each tax year thereafter, without annual re-enactment,
until this subchapter is repealed or the rate is changed.
   (D)   Local tax enabling act applicable. The tax is imposed under authority
of the Local Tax Enabling Act, and all provisions thereof that relate to a tax
on earned income or net profits are incorporated into this subchapter. Any
future amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act that are required to be applied
to a tax on earned income or net profits will automatically become part of this
subchapter upon the effective date of such amendment, without the need for
formal amendment of this subchapter, to the maximum extent allowed by 1
Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
   (E)   Applicable laws, regulations, policies and procedures.
      (1)   The tax shall be collected and administered in accordance with:
         (a)   All applicable laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Rules, regulations, policies and procedures adopted by the TCC
or by the Tax Officer in conformity with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
      (2)   This includes any regulations, policies and procedures adopted in
the future to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.003 NO EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   Although credits and deductions against tax are permitted under certain
circumstances as provided in applicable law and regulations, no individuals are
exempt from tax based on age, income or other factors.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.004 TAXPAYER RETURNS, DECLARATIONS AND PAYMENTS.
   Every taxpayer receiving earned income or earning net profits in any tax
year shall make and file tax returns and declarations and pay tax in accordance
with the Local Tax Enabling Act and the rules, regulations, policies and
procedures of the TCC and Tax Officer. A taxpayer is required to file timely
annual tax return even if no tax payment is due and owing. In addition, even
though a resident of the borough did not have earned income or net profits in
the prior tax year, the resident must file an annual tax return, when requested
to do so by the Tax Officer, stating the reason why there was no income or net
profits to report.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.005 EMPLOYER WITHHOLDING, REMITTANCE AND TAX RETURNS.
   Every employer shall register, require employee residency certificates,
withhold and remit tax, and file tax returns and withholding statements in
accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act and the rules, regulations, policies
and procedures of the TCC and Tax Officer.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.006 TAX OFFICER.
   (A)   Collection of tax. The tax will be collected from taxpayers and
employers by the Tax Officer. The Tax Officer is authorized to file an action
in the name of the borough for the recovery of taxes due to the borough and
unpaid. Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of the borough to
file an action in its own name for collection of taxes under the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
   (B)   Criminal complaints for violations. The Tax Officer is authorized to
file criminal complaints on behalf of the borough for violation of this
subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act. Nothing in this section shall affect
the authority of the borough to file a criminal complaint on it own behalf for
violation of this subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.007 INTEREST, PENALTIES, COSTS AND FINES.
   In the event of violation of this subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act,
or nonpayment of tax, taxpayers and employers are subject to interest,
penalties, costs and fines in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act,
including costs of collection imposed by the Tax Officer in accordance with
authorization by the TCC. The Tax Officer may retain reasonable costs of
collection in accordance with Local Tax Enabling Act and as approved by the
TCC.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.008 PURPOSE/REPEAL.
   The primary purpose of this subchapter is to conform to the borough’s earned
income and net profits tax currently imposed according to the Local Tax
Enabling Act, as amended and restated by Act 32 of 2008, and to do so within
the timeframe required by Act 32. Any prior ordinance or part of any prior
ordinance conflicting with the provisions of this subchapter is rescinded
insofar as the conflict exists. To the extent the provisions of this subchapter
are the same as any ordinance in force immediately prior to adoption of this
subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter are intended as a continuation of
such prior ordinance and not as a new ordinance. If this subchapter is declared
invalid, any prior ordinance levying a similar tax shall remain in full force
and effect and shall not be affected in any manner by adoption of this
subchapter. The provisions of this subchapter shall not affect any act done or
liability incurred, nor shall such provision affect any suit or prosecution
pending or to be initiated to enforce any right or penalty or to punish any
offense under the authority of any ordinance in force prior to adoption of this
subchapter. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, this
subchapter shall supersede and repeal on the effective date any ordinance
levying a tax on earned income or net profits in force immediately prior to the
effective date. The tax imposed by this subchapter shall not apply to any
person as to whom it is beyond the legal power of the borough to impose the tax
herein provided under the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution and laws of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.009 CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter is intended to be consistent with the Local Tax Enabling
Act, and to include all necessary authorizations to permit the Tax Officer to
take all actions for the collection, administration, disbursement and
enforcement of the tax and all actions on behalf of the political subdivisions
of the TCD as authorized by the Local Tax Enabling Act, subject to the policies
and procedures of the TCC. To give full force and effect to this subchapter,
the authority of the Tax Officer shall be interpreted in the broadest
permissible sense for the benefit of the Tax Officer’s ability to perform its
duties.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 33.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective on January 1, 2012,
and shall apply to earned income received or earned and net profits earned or
made by a taxpayer during calendar year 2012, and each year thereafter without
annual reenactment unless the rate of tax is subsequently changed. Changes in
the rate of tax shall become effective on the date specified in the ordinance
imposing such change.
(Ord. 253-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 33.025 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Realty Transfer Tax
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned or conducted by two or more persons.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of this commonwealth, the United States or any other state, territory or
foreign country or dependency, including, but not limited to, banking
institutions.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing whereby any lands, tenements or
hereditaments within this commonwealth or any interest therein shall be quit-
claimed, granted, bargained, sold or otherwise conveyed to the grantee,
purchaser or any other person but does not include wills, mortgages or by the
intestate laws of this commonwealth, transfers between corporations operating
housing projects pursuant to the Housing and Redevelopment Assistance Law and
the shareholders thereof, transfers between nonprofit industrial development
agencies and industrial corporations purchasing from them; any transfers to
nonprofit industrial development agencies, and transfers between husband and
wife; transfers between persons who were previously husband and wife but who
have since been divorced, provided such transfer is made within three months of
the date of the granting of the final decree in divorce, and the property or
interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and wife
or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce;
transfers between parent and child or the spouse of such a child, or between
parent and trustee for the benefit of a child or spouse of such child, by and
between a principal and straw party for the purpose of placing a mortgage or
ground rent upon the premises, correctional deeds without consideration,
transfers to the United States, the commonwealth or to any of their
instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or
deed in lieu of condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with
condemnation proceedings, or reconveyance by the condemning body of the
property condemned to the owner of record at the time of condemnation, which
reconveyance may include property line adjustments, provided such reconveyance
is made within one year from the date of condemnation, leases, a conveyance to
a trustee under a recorded trust agreement for the express purpose of holding
title in trust as security for a debt contracted at the time of the conveyance
under which the trustee is not the lender and requiring the trustee to make
reconveyance to the grantor-borrower upon the repayment of the debt, or a
transfer by the owner of previously occupied residential premises to a builder
of new residential premises when such previously occupied residential premises
is taken in trade by such builder as part of the consideration from the
purchaser of a new previously unoccupied residential premises, any transfer
from a purchase money mortgagor to the vendor holding the purchase money
mortgage whether pursuant to a foreclosure or in lieu thereof, or conveyances
to municipalities, townships, school districts and counties pursuant to
acquisition by municipalities, townships, school districts and counties of tax
delinquent properties at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau, or any transfer
between religious organizations or other bodies or persons holding title to
real estate for a religious organization if such real estate is not being or
has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, association or corporation. Whenever
used in any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both,
the term PERSON, as applied to associations, means the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Recorder of Deeds in and for the County of Northampton,
Pennsylvania, shall be the collector of taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document of any type or kind transferring title to or any
interest in real property situated within the territorial limits of the
borough.
   VALUE. The actual pecuniary worth of any interest in real property which
constitutes the subject of the transfer of any interest in the real property at
the time such transfer is consummated. Any actual monetary consideration for a
transaction shall be prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence, of the actual
pecuniary worth or value of interest in real property transferred, and shall be
construed to include any sums of cash or articles of value agreed to be paid or
exchanged, the face value of all mortgages, notes, judgments, liens or
encumbrances given in connection with the transaction, together with any other
evidence of indebtedness or promises, whether oral or written, given as full or
part consideration for the transaction, provided that the valuation of the real
property or interest in real property transferred shall in no event be less
than the amount of the highest assessment of such real property, or interest in
real property for local tax purposes, if such interest has been so assessed.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.027 TAX RATE.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, a tax for general
borough revenue purposes is levied, assessed and imposed at the rate of 1% of
the value, or the sum of $1 on every $100 of the total value, or fraction
thereof for the remainder of the calendar year 1968, upon the transfer of real
property, or of any interest in real property, situated within the borough,
provided that where any lands, tenements or hereditaments, or any interest
therein, are located partly within and partly without the territorial limits of
the borough, such tax shall be levied and assessed only upon the value of that
portion of such lands, tenements or hereditaments or interest therein, which
lies within the boundaries of the borough.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.028 PROPERTIES PARTLY OUTSIDE BOROUGH.
   Where lands lying partly within the boundaries of the borough and partly
without such boundaries are transferred, the tax herein imposed shall be
calculated upon such portion of the value as shall be represented by the
portion of such lands lying within the boundaries of the borough, such
apportionment of value to be evidenced by the affidavit or certificate of value
hereinafter provided for, but shall in no event be less than the highest
assessed valuation for local tax purposes placed upon the same in the
assessment of property within the borough.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.029 WHEN PAYABLE.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due, payable and be paid by the grantor or
transferor named in any instrument of conveyance at the time of the execution
and delivery of any instrument conveying an interest in real property situated
within the borough. The transferee shall remain liable for any unpaid tax
imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.030 CONSIDERATION TO BE STATED.
   Every instrument of conveyance effecting a transfer of, title to real
property or interest therein, located in the borough, shall set forth as part
of such instrument the full, complete and actual consideration for the transfer
of real property described therein, or shall be accompanied by a certificate of
any attorney at law or an affidavit executed by a responsible person connected
with the transaction showing such connection and setting forth the true, full,
complete and actual value thereof, and if the privilege of making such transfer
is not taxable hereunder, the factual reasons why such transfer is not subject
to the transfer tax provided for herein.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.031 TAX STAMPS TO BE AFFIXED.
   The payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be evidenced by the
affixing of a documentary stamp to every document by the person making,
executing or presenting for recording any document, as herein defined, whereby
any lands, tenements or hereditaments situated within the borough, or any
interest therein, shall be granted, bargained, sold or otherwise conveyed to
the grantee, purchaser or other person. The person using or affixing such stamp
or stamps shall write or stamp thereon the initials of his or her name and the
date upon which such stamp or stamps are affixed or used so that the stamp may
not again be used.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.032 DUTY OF TAX COLLECTOR; UNLAWFUL USE OF STAMPS.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall prescribe, prepare and furnish a stamp as may
be necessary for the payment of the tax assessed and imposed by this subchapter
in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, use or attempt to use any
stamp, other than duly approved real estate transfer tax stamp of the borough
as evidence in the payment of the real estate transfer tax assessed and imposed
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.033 RECORDER OF DEEDS; BOND PREMIUMS.
   The borough shall pay the premium or premiums on any bond or bonds required
to be procured by the Recorder of Deeds, or any of his or her deputies, for the
performance of his, her or their duties under this subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.034 ENFORCEMENT BY TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Tax Collector for the time the tax is due and payable, is hereby charged
with the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, and is hereby
authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations
relating to the registration and notation of such transactions and the payment
and receipt of such taxes and any other matter pertaining to the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.035 DUTY OF RECORDER OF DEEDS; COMMISSION.
   The Recorder of Deeds of the county, or any of his or her respective
deputies, shall be the agent of the borough for the collection of the tax
imposed by this subchapter at the time any deed, as hereinbefore defined, is
presented for recording in the office of the Recorder of Deeds in and for the
county, and said Recorder of Deeds shall receive a commission of 1% upon the
amount of tax collected by him or her, or any of his or her respective
deputies, under the provisions of this subchapter, which such 1% shall be
deducted prior to the remitting of the amount of the taxes collected by them,
respectively, in each month, to the borough, together with his or her sworn
statement of the taxes so collected by him or her under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 33.036 REALTY TRANSFER TAX REGULATIONS.
   The realty transfer tax and amendments thereto, interpreting the Local
Transfer Realty Tax, 72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq., are hereby promulgated as
authority provided to the borough to enact and enforce the regulations of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 33.050 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Emergency and
Municipal Services Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH OF TATAMY. The area within the corporate limits of the Borough of
Tatamy.
   COLLECTOR. The person, public employee or private agency designated by the
borough to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the borough.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other carried on or performed
within the corporate limits of the borough for which compensation is charged or
received, whether by means of salary, wages, commission or fees for services
rendered.
   TAX. The emergency and municipal services tax in the amount of $52 levied by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.052 LEVY.
   A tax is hereby levied and assessed for the purposes of police, fire and/or
emergency services, road construction and/or maintenance, or reduction of
property taxes upon the privilege of engaging in an occupation within the
corporate limits of the borough during the fiscal year. Each natural person who
exercises such privilege for any length of time during the year shall pay a tax
in the amount of $52 in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. This
tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied
by the borough.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.053 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS.
   Each employer within the borough as well as those employers situated outside
the borough but who engage in business within the borough, is hereby charged
with the duty of collecting from each of his, her or its employees engaged by
him, her or it and performing for him, her or it within the borough the said
tax of $52 per annum and making a return payment thereof to the Collector.
Further, each employer is hereby authorized to deduct this tax from each
employee in his, her or its employ, whether said employee is paid by salary,
wages or commission, and whether or not part or all such services are performed
within the borough.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.054 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied by the Collector. It is further provided that if
the employer fails to file said tax, whether or not he, she or it makes
collection hereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him, her or it
to said employee, the employer shall be responsible for payment of the tax, in
full, without deducting a commission and as though tax had originally been
levied against him, her or it.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.055 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   The place of employment shall be determined as the day the taxpayer
first becomes subject to the tax during the calendar year. It is the intent of
this provision that no person shall pay more than $52 in any calendar year as
an emergency and municipal services tax, irrespective of the number of the
political subdivisions within which such person may be employed within any
given calendar year. In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority
for the calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment shall
constitute prima facie certification of payment to all other political
subdivisions.
   (B)   Each employer shall use his, her or its employment records from
January 1 to March 31 of each and every year for determining the number of
employees from whom said tax shall be deducted and paid over to the Collector
on or before April 30 of each and every year. Supplemental reports and payment
of tax due thereon shall be made by each employer on July 31, October 31 and
January 31 of each and every year of new employees as reflected on his, her or
its employment records from April 1 to June 30; July 1 to September 30; and
October 1 to December 31 of each and every year. Payment of the tax due on
these supplemental reports shall be made on July 31, October 31 and January 31,
respectively, of each and every year.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.056 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind,
engaged in any occupation or profession within the borough, shall be required
to comply with this subchapter and pay the tax to the Collector on April 30 of
each and every year, or as soon thereafter as he or she engages in an
occupation.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.057 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Each individual who shall have more than one occupation within the
borough shall be subject to the payment of this tax on his or her principal
occupation, and his or her principal employer shall deduct this tax and deliver
to him or her evidence of deductions on a form to be furnished to the employer
by the Collector, which form shall be evidence of deduction having been made,
and when presented to any other employer shall be authority for such employer
to not deduct this tax from the employee’s wages, but to include such employee
on his or her return by setting forth his or her name, address and the name and
account number of the employer who deducted this tax.
   (B)   In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation, or an
occupation which requires his or her working in more than one political
subdivision during the calendar year, the priority of claim to collect such
emergency and municipal services tax shall be in the following order: first,
the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or her principal
office or is principally employed; second, the political subdivision in which
the person resides and works, if such a tax is levied by that political
subdivision; third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home. The place of
employment shall be determined as of the day the taxpayer first becomes subject
to the tax during the calendar year. It is the intent of this provision that no
person shall pay more than $52 in any calendar year as an emergency and
municipal services tax, irrespective of the number of the political
subdivisions within which such person may be employed within any given calendar
year. In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment shall
constitute prima facie certification of payment to all other political
subdivisions.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.058 EMPLOYERS AND SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS RESIDING BEYOND THE CORPORATE
LIMITS OF THE BOROUGH.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their place
of business outside of the borough but who perform services of any type or
kind, or engage in any occupation or profession within the borough do, by
virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the borough. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the borough, and an employee of a
nonresident employer, may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered a
self-employed person, and in the event this tax is not paid, the borough shall
have the option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for the
collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.059 EXEMPTION.
   Any individual who derives income of less than $12,000 per year from his or
her occupation shall be entitled to a refund of tax paid by him or her or
withheld from him or her by his or her employer, and may file a claim for
refund on such form as may be prescribed by the Collector.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 217-2006, passed 1-6-2006)
§ 33.060 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive payments
of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or
her from each employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax
was received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter, and is hereby charged and empowered to
prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to any matter
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter, including
provisions for the examination of the payroll records of any employer subject
to this subchapter, the examination and correction of any return made in
compliance with this subchapter and any payment alleged or found to be
incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred, or
any payment made by a taxpayer who is engaged in a business or occupation or
businesses or occupations from which he or she derives less than $12,000 per
year. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the
right to appeal to the court of common pleas of the county as in other cases
provided.
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 217-2006, passed 1-6-2006)
§ 33.061 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% of the amount of said tax shall be calculated, beginning with the due
date of said tax, and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of said
tax for nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax,
the individual liable therefor shall, in addition, be responsible and liable
for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.062 SAVING CLAUSE.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
borough to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation not within
the taxing power of the borough under the Constitution of the United States and
the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the commonwealth as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax, or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 33.063 RE-ENACTMENT.
   Ordinance 215 passed on February 7, 2005, providing for assessment of the
emergency and municipal services tax, providing procedures for assessment, and
collection and enforcement of the tax; and Ordinance 217, passed on January 6,
2006, amending Ordinance 215 of February 7, 2005, increasing the income
exemption from $6,000 to $12,000 are hereby reenacted to comply with the Local
Services Tax (LST) Act 7 of 2007.
(Ord. 228-2007, passed 11-5-2007)
Statutory reference:
   For authority, see 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.
TAXPAYERS BILL OF RIGHTS
§ 33.075 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELIGIBLE TAX.
      (1)   Any of the following, including interest and penalty provided by
law, when levied by the borough:
         (a)   Any per capita tax;
         (b)   Any occupation, occupation assessment or occupational privilege
tax; and
         (c)   Any tax on earned income.
      (2)   The definition of ELIGIBLE TAX shall not include any tax on real
property.
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.076 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to per capita tax, occupation privilege tax,
earned income tax and realty transfer tax. This subchapter shall not apply to
real estate taxes except with regard to interest on overpayments.
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.077 TAXPAYERS BILL OF RIGHTS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. Every taxpayer is obligated to pay all taxes levied by the
borough to which the taxpayer is subject. When taxes are not paid or the
borough has questions about whether a taxpayer has fulfilled all tax
obligations, the borough has legal rights to enforce taxpayer obligations. In
conjunction with taxpayer obligations and borough rights, the commonwealth has
enacted a Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights which grants legal rights to
taxpayers, and creates obligations for municipalities so that equity and
fairness control how boroughs collect taxes. This document is the borough
disclosure statement required by the Bill of Rights. This document is merely a
summary of rights. For a complete statement of rights and the obligations of
the borough, see 53 Pa.C.S. § 8401 Subch. C.
   (B)   Applicability/eligible taxes.
      (1)   This disclosure statement applies to eligible taxes levied by the
borough. For this purpose, eligible taxes include any tax levied by the borough
other than the real estate tax. This disclosure statement does not apply to
real estate taxes.
      (2)   The specific eligible taxes levied by the borough are:
         (a)   Occupation, occupation assessment or occupation privilege tax;
         (b)   Per capita tax; and
         (c)   Earned income tax.
      (3)   Unless expressly provided in the local Taxpayers Bill of Rights,
the failure of any borough representative to comply with any provision of this
disclosure statement, related regulations or the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights
will not excuse the taxpayer from paying the taxes owed.
   (C)   Taxpayer rights and borough obligations when the borough requests
information or audits taxpayer records.
      (1)   Minimum time period for taxpayer response.
         (a)   The taxpayer has 30 calendar days from the mailing date to
respond to the borough requests for tax information.
         (b)   Upon written request, the borough will grant reasonable time
extension for good cause.
         (c)   The borough will notify the taxpayer of the procedures to obtain
an extension in its initial request for tax information.
      (2)   Request for prior year returns.
         (a)   An initial borough request may cover only taxes required to be
paid or tax returns required to be filed no more than three years prior to the
mailing date of the request.
         (b)   The borough may make a subsequent request relating to other
taxes or returns if, after the initial request, the borough determines that the
taxpayer failed to file a tax return, underreported income or failed to pay a
tax for one or more of the tax periods covered by the initial request.
      (3)   Use of federal tax information. The borough may require a taxpayer
to provide copies of federal tax returns if the borough shows that the
information is reasonably necessary for enforcement or collection of a tax and
the information is not available from the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue or
other sources.
   (D)   Tax overpayment refunds. A taxpayer may file a written request with
the borough for a refund or credit. The filing of a written request will not
preclude a taxpayer from later filing a tax appeal petition as discussed below.
The request must be made within three years of the due date for filing the
return or one year after payment of the tax, whichever is later. If no return
is required, the request must be made within three years after the payment due
date, or within one year after payment, whichever is later. A tax return filed
by the taxpayer showing a tax overpayment will be considered a written request
for a cash refund unless the return indicates otherwise. If the taxpayer pays a
tax as a result of receiving a notice of underpayment, the taxpayer must file a
written request for a refund within one year of the payment date. Subject to
certain exceptions, the borough will pay interest, at a rate determined
pursuant to state law, from the date of overpayment until the date of
resolution.
   (E)   Tax assessment/underpayment/required notice. The borough must notify
the taxpayer in writing of the basis for any underpayment determined by the
borough.
   (F)   Tax appeals.
      (1)   Tax appeal petitions.
         (a)   To appeal a tax assessment or denial of a refund request, the
taxpayer must file a tax appeal petition with the borough. The petition must be
mailed or delivered to the attention of the Secretary/Treasurer at the
following address:
 
Tatamy Borough
P.O. Box 218
Tatamy, Pennsylvania 18085
 
         (b)   Tax appeal petitions requesting a refund must be filed within
the time set forth in division (D) above.
         (c)   Tax appeal petitions appealing a tax assessment or notice of
underpayment must be filed within 90 days after the date of the tax assessment
or underpayment notice.
         (d)   Regulations regarding the form and content of petitions, as well
as practice and procedure for tax appeals may be obtained in person, or by
mailing a request to the above address, or by calling the Borough (610)252-7123
during the hours of 2:15 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and
Friday.
      (2)   Borough decision.
         (a)   The borough will issue a decision on tax appeal petitions within
60 days after receipt of a complete and accurate petition.
         (b)   If the petition was complete and accurate when filed, the
borough’s failure to render a decision within 60 days will result in the
petition being deem approved.
      (3)   Appeals to court.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the borough who has a
direct interest in the decision has the right to appeal to the county court of
common pleas.
         (b)   Appeals to court must be filed with the court within 30 days
after the date of the borough’s adverse decision.
   (G)   Borough enforcement procedures. Depending on the type of tax involved
and the specific circumstances, if a taxpayer has not paid a tax liability
determined to be due or which the borough has reason to believe might be due,
possible borough enforcement options include:
      (1)   Inquiry by borough to taxpayer;
      (2)   Borough audit of taxpayer records;
      (3)   The borough may contact the taxpayer and attempt to resolve the
liability through payment in full, an installment payment plan or compromise;
      (4)   The borough may employ private collection agencies to collect the
tax. The borough may file a lien against the taxpayer, and in some cases,
against an employer or other person responsible for payment of the tax. The
borough may attach or require an employer to make reductions in the wages or
earnings of the taxpayer;
      (5)   The borough may file suit against the taxpayer before a district
justice or in the county court of common pleas;
      (6)   The borough may execute and attach taxpayer bank accounts, sell
taxpayer vehicles, other personal property or real estate, based on a judgment
or lien obtained through legal proceedings; and
      (7)   The borough may seek criminal prosecution of the taxpayer.
   (H)   Tax information confidentiality. Information gained by the borough as
the result of any audit, return, report, investigation, hearing or verification
shall be confidential. However, confidentiality will not preclude disclosure
for official purposes, whether in connection with legal proceedings or
otherwise, and will not preclude disclosure to the extent required by any
applicable law.
   (I)   Taxpayer complaints. If a taxpayer has a complaint about a borough
action relating to taxes, the Borough Secretary/Treasurer may be contacted in
writing at P.O. Box 218, Tatamy, Pennsylvania 18085 or another person
designated by the borough will facilitate resolution of the complaint by
working with the appropriate borough personnel.
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.078 TAXPAYERS BILL OF RIGHTS NOTICE.
   The Taxpayers Bill of Rights notice is approved and adopted.
TAXPAYERS BILL OF RIGHTS NOTICE
   You are entitled to receive a written explanation of your rights with regard to
the assessment, audit, appeal, enforcement, refund and collection of certain
borough taxes. The written explanation is entitled Tatamy Borough Taxpayers Bill
of Rights disclosure statement. Upon receiving a request from you, Tatamy Borough
will give you a copy of the disclosure statement at no charge. You may request a
copy in person, or by mailing a request to the following address:
   Tatamy Borough
   P.O. Box 218
   Tatamy, Pennsylvania 18085
   Re: Taxpayers Disclosure Statement
   A copy will also be mailed to you if you call Tatamy Borough at the following
number: (610)252-7123
   You may call the above telephone number or appear in person at the above
address to request a copy during the hours of 2:15 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday,
Tuesday, Thursday and Friday other than holidays.
 
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.079 INFORMATION REQUEST EXTENSION PROCEDURE NOTICE.
   The information request extension procedure notice is approved and adopted.
 
INFORMATION REQUEST TIME EXTENSION PROCEDURE NOTICE
   Under Pennsylvania Law (53 Pa.C.S. § 8424, Act 50), you have 30 calendar days
from the mailing date of this information request to respond by: (1) providing
the borough with the requested information; or (2) requesting an extension of
time in which to provide the requested information. If you need an extension,
send a written request, specifying the reasons for the extension and the facts
supporting those reasons, to the following address:
   Tatamy Borough
   P.O. Box 218
   Tatamy, Pennsylvania 18085
   Reasonable time extensions will be granted for good cause. The borough will
notify you in writing of whether a time extension has been granted. If your
request is granted the borough will inform you of the amount of the time
extension. If your request is denied, the borough will inform you of the basis
for its denial and that you must immediately provide the requested information.
 
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.080 LOCAL TAX APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   The Borough Council shall, in executive session, receive and make
determinations on petitions from taxpayers relating to the assessment,
determination or refund of an eligible tax.
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 33.081 TAX APPEAL INFORMATION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights requires every borough to
adopt regulations concerning the form and content of petitions, as well as
practice and procedure for tax appeal petitions. This document contains the
regulations required by the Bill of Rights. In addition, the borough has
published a disclosure statement required by the Bill of Rights.
   (B)   Applicability/eligible taxes.
      (1)   These regulations apply to eligible taxes levied by the borough.
      (2)   For this purpose, eligible taxes include any tax other than the
real estate tax.
      (3)   Specific eligible taxes levied by the borough are:
         (a)   Occupation, occupation assessment or occupation privilege tax;
         (b)   Per capita tax; and
         (c)   Earned income tax.
   (C)   Tax appeal petitions.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   As explained more fully in the disclosure statement, petitions
should be filed with Borough Secretary/Treasurer, P.O. Box 218, Tatamy,
Pennsylvania 18085.
         (b)   Petitions must be filed within the time limits explained in the
disclosure statement. Petitions received by the borough are considered timely
filed if received by the borough by the required date or if mailed and
postmarked by the United States Postal Service on or before the required date.
The burden is on the taxpayer to present evidence sufficient to prove the
petition was timely filed.
      (2)   Contents. Petitions must be in writing, signed by the taxpayer (if
the taxpayer is an entity, a partner or officer must sign) and must contain:
         (a)   Taxpayer’s name, address and telephone number;
         (b)   If taxpayer if represented by an attorney, accountant or other
qualified individual as explained below, the name, address and telephone number
of the representative;
         (c)   Designation of the tax to which the petition relates, including
the year or other period and tax amount. A copy of any tax bill, refund request
denial or other essential document relating to the petition shall be attached;
         (d)   Taxpayer’s license number, account number, employer
identification number, Social Security number or other appropriate identifying
designation;
         (e)   A detailed statement in separate numbered paragraphs of the
reasons requiring a refund, or the objections to the assessment or notice of
underpayment being appealed, and the facts supporting such reasons or
objections;
         (f)   A statement specifying the relief requested by the taxpayer;
         (g)   A statement whether or not a hearing is requested; and
         (h)   A statement certifying that the facts contained in the petition
are true and correct to the taxpayer’s knowledge and belief, and that the
petition is not filed for purposes of delay.
      (3)   Incomplete petitions. If the petition fails to satisfy the above
requirements, the borough may request the taxpayer to submit the missing
information or may make a decision based on the information in the petition. If
additional information is requested, the taxpayer’s failure to submit the
requested additional information within 30 days of the date of the request
shall result in dismissal of the petition.
   (D)   Tax appeal petition practice and procedure.
      (1)   General. Practice and procedure before the borough relating to tax
appeal petitions is not governed by the Local Agency Law.
      (2)   Representation.
         (a)   A taxpayer or an officer or partner of an entity taxpayer may
file a petition and appear at any hearing, or may be represented by a person
possessing appropriate education, training or experience to represent taxpayers
in tax appeals. There is no requirement that a taxpayer be represented by an
attorney or certified public accountant. A taxpayer’s representative must be
authorized in writing to represent the taxpayer. A letter signed by the
taxpayer, or a listing as a representative in the petition signed by the
taxpayer, will be accepted as authorization for representation.
         (b)   A notice or other written communication from the borough to the
taxpayer may be given to the taxpayer’s authorized representative, and any such
notice or other communication shall have the same effect as if given to the
taxpayer directly. Action taken by taxpayer’s authorized representative shall
have the same force and effect as if taken by the taxpayer.
      (3)   Burden of proof. The taxpayer has the burden of proof on all
issues.
      (4)   Hearings.
         (a)   Waiver. If a taxpayer does not request a hearing on the
petition, the taxpayer will be deemed to have waived any right to a hearing and
to have requested that the borough decide the taxpayer’s case solely based on
the petition. If the taxpayer does not request a hearing, or the borough
decides the taxpayer has no right to a hearing, the borough will decide in its
discretion whether a hearing is required.
         (b)   Notice of hearing. If the borough schedules a hearing,
reasonable notice will be given to the taxpayer in writing specifying the date,
time and place.
         (c)   Continuances. The borough may grant a reasonable request for
continuance of a scheduled hearing. The request shall be made in writing, shall
state the reasons for the requested continuance, and shall be received by the
borough at least five days prior to the scheduled hearing.
         (d)   Presiding officer. The Borough Council shall preside in
executive session to hear the appeal.
         (e)   Transcripts or recordings. Transcripts or recordings of a
hearing are not required, but may be made at the discretion of the borough. The
taxpayer may receive a copy of the transcript if one is made, at his or her
expense.
         (f)   Authority of presiding officers. Presiding officers have
authority to:
            1.   Regulate the conduct of hearings, including the scheduling,
recessing, reconvening and adjournment hearings, and all acts proper for the
efficient conduct of hearings;
            2.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
            3.   Receive evidence; and
            4.   Require production of books, records, documents and other data
pertinent to the issues.
         (g)   Evidence. Hearings need not adhere to the technical rules of
evidence. In cases involving issues of fact, oral testimony shall be under oath
or affirmation. At the discretion of the borough, depositions or affidavits may
be received in lieu of oral testimony if the actual presence of a witness is
not feasible.
      (5)   Decision. The borough’s final decision will be in writing signed by
President of Council.
(Ord. 183, passed 5-3-1999)
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.095 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Occupation Tax
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH OF TATAMY. The area within the corporate limits of the Borough of
Tatamy.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person,
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning January 1, 1967, and ending December 31,
1967.
   HE, HIS or HIM. Shall mean and indicate the singular and plural number, as
well as male, female and neuter gender.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the borough.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, carried on or performed
within the corporate limits of the borough for which compensation is charged or
received, whether by means of salary, wages, commissions or fees for services
rendered.
   TAX. The occupation privilege tax in the amount of $10 levied by this
subchapter.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Tax Collector of the borough, duly elected or appointed.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.097 LEVY.
   For general revenue purposes, a tax is hereby levied upon the privilege of
engaging in an occupation within the corporate limits of the borough during the
fiscal year of 1967. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any
length of time during the year shall pay a tax in the amount of $10, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This tax is in addition to all
other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the borough.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.098 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS.
   Each employer within the borough, as well as those employers situated
outside the borough but who engage in business within the borough, is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting from each of his or her employees engaged
by him or her and performing for him or her within the borough the said tax of
$10 per annum and making a return and payment thereof to the Tax Collector.
Further, each employer is hereby authorized to deduct this tax from each
employee in his or her employ, whether said employee is paid by salary, wages
or commission, and whether or not part or all such services are performed
within the borough.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.099 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to him or her by the Tax Collector. Each employer,
in filing this return and making payment of the tax withheld from his or her
employees, shall be entitled to retain a commission calculated at the rate of
2% of the gross tax due and payable, provided that such tax is collected and
paid over by the employer on or before the dates hereinafter set forth. It is
further provided that if the employer fails to file said return and pay said
tax, whether or not he or she makes collection thereof from the salary, wages
or commissions paid by him or her to said employee, the employer shall be
responsible for the payment of the tax, in full, without deducting a commission
and as though the tax had originally been levied against him or her.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.100 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each employer shall use his or her employment records from April 1 to
April 30, 1967 for determining the number of employees from whom said tax shall
be deducted and paid over to the Tax Collector on or before April 30, 1967.
   (B)   Supplemental reports and payment of tax due thereon shall be made by
each employer on July 31, 1967, October 31, 1967 and January 31, 1968, of new
employees as reflected on his or her employment record, from April 1, 1967, to
June 30, 1967; July 1, 1967, to September 30, 1967; and October 1, 1967, to
December 31, 1967. Payment of tax due on these supplemental reports shall be
made on July 31, 1967, October 31, 1967 and January 31, 1968, respectively.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.101 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind,
engaged in any occupation or profession within the borough, shall be required
to comply with this subchapter and pay the tax to the Tax Collector on April
30, 1967, or as soon thereafter as he or she engages in an occupation.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.102 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Each individual who shall have more than one occupation within the
borough shall be subject to the payment of this tax on his or her principal
occupation and his or her principal employer shall deduct this tax and deliver
to him or her evidence of deductions on a form to be furnished to the employer
by the Tax Collector, which form shall be evidence of deduction having been
made, and when presented to any other employer shall be authority for such
employer to not deduct this tax from the employee’s wages, but to include such
employee on his or her return by setting forth his or her name, address, and
the name and account number of the employer who deducted this tax.
   (B)   In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation, or an
occupation which requires his or her working in more than one political
subdivision during the calendar year, the priority of claim to collect such
occupation privilege tax shall be in the following order: first, the political
subdivision in which a person maintains his or her principal office or is
principally employed; second, the political subdivision in which the person
resides and works, if such a tax is levied by that political subdivision;
third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and which
imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home. The place of employment
shall be determined as of the day the taxpayer first becomes subject to the tax
during the calendar year. It is the intent of this provision that no person
shall pay more than $10 in any calendar year as an occupational privilege tax,
irrespective of the number of the political subdivisions within which such
person may be employed within any given calendar year. In case of dispute, a
tax receipt of the taxing authority for that calendar year declaring that the
taxpayer has made prior payment shall constitute prima facie certification of
payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.103 EMPLOYERS AND SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS RESIDING BEYOND THE CORPORATE
LIMITS OF THE BOROUGH.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their place
of business outside of the borough but who perform services of any type or
kind, or engage in any occupation or profession within the borough do, by
virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the borough. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the borough, and an employee of a
nonresident employer, may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered a
self-employed person, and in the event this tax is not paid, the borough shall
have the option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for the
collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.104 EXEMPTION.
   Any individual who derives income of less than $1,000 per year from his or
her occupation shall be entitled to a refund of tax paid by him or her or
withheld from him or her by his or her employer, and may file a claim for
refund on such form as may be prescribed by the Tax Collector.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.105 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him or her from each employer or self-employed person, together with the
date the tax was received.
   (B)   The Tax Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter, and is hereby charged and empowered to
prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to any matter
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter, including
provisions for the examination of the payroll records of any employer subject
to this subchapter; the examination and correction of any return made in
compliance with this subchapter, and any payment alleged or found to be
incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred, or
any payment made by a taxpayer who is engaged in a business or occupation or
businesses or occupations from which he or she derives less than $1,000 per
year. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Collector shall have the
right to appeal to the court of common pleas of the county as in other cases
provided.
   (C)   The Tax Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and
payroll records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return
made by an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each
employer is hereby directed and required to give the Administrator the means,
facilities and opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.106 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Tax Collector in the name of
the borough may sue for the recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this
subchapter, together with interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of said tax shall be calculated, beginning with the due
date of said tax, and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of said
tax for non-payment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this
tax, the individual liable therefor shall, in addition, be responsible and
liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.107 SAVING CLAUSE.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
borough to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation not within
the taxing power of the borough under the Constitution of the United States and
the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the commonwealth as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax, or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 33.108 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon adoption, and remain in force
and effect for the fiscal year of 1967.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967)
IMPOSITION AND RETENTION OF COSTS OF COLLECTION ON DELINQUENT TAXES
§ 33.120 ADOPTION OF COST OF COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   The borough approves and adopts the Cost of Collection Schedule in §
33.121 and made a part of this subchapter to be imposed by Berkheimer upon any
taxpayer whose taxes are or become delinquent and/or remain due and unpaid.
(Res. 2005-02, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 33.121 RETAINING SAID COSTS OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Berkheimer is authorized to retain said costs of collection set forth
in the attached schedule incurred in recovering delinquent taxes and assessed
to the delinquent taxpayer as allowed by law.
Delinquent Tax Collection
Schedule of Costs
To Be Paid by the Taxpayer
Delinquent Tax Collection
Schedule of Costs
To Be Paid by the Taxpayer
The costs assessed the delinquent taxpayer, are added to school and municipal
tax, penalty and interest as follows:
Earned Income Tax Collection Notices                                       
   Delinquent declaration of quarterly estimated earned income tax form$20
   Delinquent emergency municipal services tax form (formerly known as $30
occupational privilege tax)
   Delinquent employer quarterly return                                $30
   Failure to file earned income tax return                            $20
Known Place of Employment
   Notice before wage attachment (sent certified mail)                 $16.25
   *if paid within 30 days
   Wage attachment                                                     $16.25
Place of Employment Unknown                                                
   Delinquent tax notice                                               $10.50
   Final notice                                                        $9.50
   Pre-collection letter                                               $12.50
   Pre-legal sample complaint with letter                              $16
Miscellaneous Delinquent Notices                                           
   Bad check letter fee                                                $20
   Establishment of payment plan                                       $15
   Paid before service*                                                $4
   State list discrepancy courtesy letter                              $6
*Paid before service–cost assessed to accounts paid during the interim period in
which taxes are transitioning between the current and delinquent collector.
Miscellaneous Earned Income Tax Notices                                    
Bad check letter fee                                                      $20
No payment enclosed notice                                                $12.50
Real Estate Taxes                                                          
   Real estate pre-collection letter                                   $39.50
   Real estate delinquent tax notice                                   $36.50
   Real estate final notice                                            $25.25
 
   (B)   The taxing body receives the full amount of tax, penalty and interest.
These costs remain the same whether the taxpayer owes one year or ten years of
tax regardless of amount due: $10; or $10,000.
   (C)   Trespass and assumpsit complaint: court cost is advanced by Berkheimer
and billed on a monthly basis to the taxing body. This cost is recovered at the
time judgment is issued in favor of the taxing body and is reimbursed to the
taxing body when paid by the taxpayer. Please note: if Berkheimer is the
current Earned Income Tax Administrator, no court costs are advanced by the
client. The court costs are paid by Berkheimer.
   (D)   Judgement execution: cost for either a lien filing fee or actual
Sheriff sale is advanced by Berkheimer and billed to the taxing body on a
monthly basis. Once the cost is recovered from the taxpayer it is reimbursed to
the taxing body. All mechanics in executing the judgment in either case are
handled by Berkheimer.
   (E)   Notices, which are in most cases used mutually exclusive from each
other, may be sent in any order depending on collection efforts required and
associated charges are not listed in order of mailing or use. The cost for
notices are cumulative based upon the number and type of notices that
Berkheimer must send to successfully collect the delinquency.
(Res. 2005-02, passed 3-7-2005)
STATE GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT TRUST
§ 33.135 AUTHORIZING BOROUGH FUNDS IN THE STATE GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT TRUST.
   (A)   This municipality shall join with other municipalities in accordance
with the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Law, 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 2301 et
seq. by becoming a settlor of the Pennsylvania Local Government Investment
Trust (the Trust), and entering into the declaration of trust, which is adopted
by reference with the same effect as if it had been set out at length herein
and a copy of which shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting at which
this section was adopted.
   (B)   This municipality is authorized to purchase shares in the trust from
time to time with available municipal funds, and to redeem some or all of those
shares from time to time as the funds are needed for municipal purposes. These
actions are to be taken by the officers designated for this purpose pursuant to
general or specific instructions by the governing body adopting this section.
   (C)   The trustees of the trust are designated as having official custody of
this municipality’s funds which are invested by the purchase of funds in the
trust.
   (D)   Conditions of this agreement are as follows.
      (1)   The conditions of the agreement are set forth in the declaration of
trust referred to in division (A) above.
      (2)   The municipality’s participation in the trust may be terminable at
any time by ordinance.
      (3)   The declaration of trust and the purchase of its shares are for the
purpose of investing this municipality’s funds in obligations which are
otherwise legal investments as part of a pooled arrangement with other
governmental units, thereby achieving economic and other advantages of pooled
investments.
      (4)   It is not necessary to finance the agreement authorized herein from
municipal funds except through the purchase of shares in the trust.
      (5)   The trust shall be managed by a Board of Trustees as set forth in
the declaration of trust and the by-laws provided for therein.
      (6)   Shares may be purchased and redeemed from time to time as this
municipality may determine to be necessary or appropriate to meet cash
investment requirements.
      (7)   Investment shall be in federally insured instruments or in accounts
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Ord. 123-1984, passed 10-1-1984)
COMPLIANCE WITH PROFESSIONAL SERVICES CONTRACT PROVISIONS
§ 33.145 PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH PROFESSIONAL SERVICES CONTRACT
PROVISIONS OF ACT 44 OF 2009.
   Below are the procedures for the purchase or provision of professional
services, including investment, legal, actuarial, and other consulting services
this municipality has adopted to comply with Act 44.
   (A)   Request for proposal application(s) including disclosures.
Applications will be drafted at the time services are needed. The application
provisions will address the applicants' qualifications, experience, expertise,
and compensation to be charged, an Act 44-compliant Disclosure Form will be
included as part of the application. This RFP is not subject to a requirement
that the lowest bid be accepted.
   (B)   Advertisements. The municipality shall advertise the availability of a
request for proposal for professional services contract to potential
participants or candidates in a timely and efficient manner. An advertisement
of such will include the following advertisements:
      (1)   The services that are the subject of the proposed contract.
      (2)   Specifications relating to the services.
      (3)   Procedures to compete for the contract.
      (4)   Required disclosures and additional information desired.
   (C)   Review. The evaluation process will involve several steps. The initial
responses to the request for proposal will be evaluated by the municipality.
The municipality will determine a list of finalists, interview finalists if
applicable and make a final decision. The criteria to be used in the evaluation
process can differ depending on the professional services requested but all
will include:
      (1)   The applicant's qualifications, experience, and expertise related
to Pennsylvania Municipal Pensions;
      (2)   The applicant's approach to managing risk and research
capabilities;
      (3)   The applicant's knowledge of Act 205 and Act 600;
      (4)   The quoted fee(s) associated with the desired service(s) sought;
      (5)   The applicant's availability to meet with convened pension
committee for periodic review;
      (6)   The response of the references provided by the applicant; and
      (7)   The ultimate confidence of the municipality as represented by the
vote to accept the applicant in contract.
   (D)   Personnel. Prior to entering into a professional services contract,
the contractor shall disclose the names and titles of each individual who will
be providing professional services to the municipal pension system, including
advisors or subcontractors of the contractor. Furthermore, disclosures will
include all of the following:
      (1)   Whether the individual is a current or former registered federal or
state lobbyist;
      (2)   A description of the responsibilities of each individual with
regard to the services provisions of the contract;
      (3)   Whether the individual is a current or former official or employee
of the Borough of Tatamy; and
      (4)   The resume of an individual listed in the aforementioned disclosure
shall be provided to the municipality upon request.
   (E)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   All requests for proposal proceedings shall include a minimum
restriction of one year on:
         (a)   Participation by a former employee of a contractor or potential
contractor in the review of a proposal or negotiation of a contract with that
contractor;
         (b)   Participation by a former employee of the municipal pension
system in the submission of a proposal or the performance of a contract.
      (2)   Additionally, all requests for proposal proceedings shall include a
permanent disqualification for:
         (a)   Any entity that currently holds a professional services
contract, responds to, applies for, or otherwise solicits, a professional
services contract, that has conveyed a gift having more than a nominal value,
to any municipal official or employee of this municipality since December 17,
2009; or
         (b)   Any entity that currently holds a professional services
contract, responding to, applies for, or otherwise solicits, a professional
services contract, that has made a political contribution to any parties,
candidates, or current office holders of or for this municipality since
December 17, 2009.
   (F)   Public information. Following the award of a professional services
contract, all applications and disclosure forms shall be made public except for
proprietary information or other information protected by law.
   (G)   Notification and posting of proceedings. Following the decision by the
municipality of a finalist, the relevant factors that resulted in the selection
for award of the professional services contract must be summarized in written
statement and included or attached to the documents awarding the contract.
Within ten days of the selection for award of the professional services
contract, the original application, the RFP summary of proceedings and
selection statement and all disclosure forms must be transmitted to all
unsuccessful applicants and posted on the municipal pension system's website,
if a website is maintained, at least seven days prior to the execution of the
professional services contract.
   (H)   Increases. A professional services contract shall not be amended to
increase the cost of the contract by more than 10% or $10,000, whichever is
greater, unless the increase and a written justification for the increase are
public and posted on the municipal pension system's website, if a website is
maintained, at least seven days prior to the effective date of the amendment.
(Res. 2022-011, passed 11-7-2022)
COLLECTION PROCEDURES
§ 33.155 APPOINTMENT OF SOLICITOR; INTEREST ASSESSMENT; ADDITIONAL FEES FOR
UNPAID REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Fees to be added to the unpaid claims. The borough hereby approves the
following fee schedule for the collection of the unpaid claims, which fees
shall be added to the unpaid claims:
      (1)   Legal fees.
Initial review and sending first legal   $175
demand letter
File lien and prepare satisfaction       $250
Prepare Writ of Scire Facias             $250
Prepare and mail letter under Pa. R.C.P. $50
237.1
Prepare default judgment                 $175
Research, prepare and obtain re-issued   $175
writ
Prepare praecipe to amend                $100
Prepare motion to amend                  $150
Present motion to amend                  $50
Obtain vehicle identification number     $100
(VIN) for mobile home
Prepare motion for alternate service     $250
Present motion for alternate service     $50
Prepare motion to consolidate claims     $250
Present motion to consolidate claims     $50
Prepare motion to add United States as   $175
defendant
Present motion to add United States as   $50
defendant
Prepare writ of execution                $800
Attendance at sale; review schedule of
distribution and resolve distribution    $400
issues
Prepare motion to continue Sheriff sale  $50
Present motion to continue Sheriff sale  $50
Prepare petition for free and clear sale $400
Present petition for free and clear sale $50
Services not covered above               At an hourly rate between $75-$275 per
                                         hour
 
 
      (2)   Collection fees.
 
Notice of delinquent claim and fee    $40 per notice, plus applicable postage
shifting
Validation notice                     $25 per notice
Bookkeeping fee for payment plan of 3 $25
months or less
Bookkeeping fee for payment plan of   $50
more than 3 months
Handling fee for returned check       $25
 
 
   (B)   Costs to be added to the unpaid claims. In addition to the fees set
forth in division (A) above, the reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket
charges, costs, expenses, commissions and fees incurred in the collection of
the unpaid claims, including, but not limited to, postage, title searches, VIN
searches, prothonotary fees and charges, and Sheriff fees and charges, shall be
added to the unpaid claims.
   (C)   Credit card and debit card charges. The borough authorizes any
attorney or private collector collecting the unpaid claims to accept payment of
the unpaid claims by credit card or debit card. When payment is made by credit
card or debit card, any fees charged by the credit card company, debit card
company, credit card servicing agent, or debit card servicing agent shall be
charged immediately to the credit card or debit card used to make payment. This
applies to credit card or debit card payments made by mail, telephone, over the
internet, or in person.
   (D)   Interest. Interest will be assessed upon the unpaid claims at a rate
of 10% per annum and added to the unpaid claims.
   (E)   Collection procedures. The following collection procedures are hereby
established in accordance with the Act:
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to assessing or imposing attorney fees in
connection with the collection of an unpaid claim account, the borough or its
designee shall mail or cause to be mailed, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice of such intention to the property owner or other entity
liable for the account (collectively, the "property owner").
      (2)   If the certified mail notice is undelivered, then, at least ten
days prior to assessing or imposing such attorney fees, the borough or its
designee shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a second notice
to the property owner.
      (3)   All notices required by this section shall be mailed to the
properly owner's last known post office address as recorded in the records or
other information of the borough or such other address obtained by the borough
from the county tax assessment office.
      (4)   Each notice as described above shall include the following:
         (a)   The type of tax, municipal claim or other charge, the year that
it became due and the amount owed, including penalty and interest;
         (b)   A statement of the borough's intent to impose or assess attorney
fees no earlier than 30 days after receipt of the first notice, or no earlier
than ten days after receipt of the second notice;
         (c)   The manner in which the imposition or assessment of attorney
fees may be avoided by payment of the account; and
         (d)   The place of payment for accounts and the name and telephone
number of the borough's representative designated as responsible for collection
matters.
   (F)   Related action. The proper officials of the borough are hereby
authorized and empowered to take such additional action as they may deem
necessary or appropriate to implement this section.
   (G)   Appointment of solicitor. The Borough appoints Michelle R. Potinoff,
Esquire, as Solicitor for the limited purpose of collecting the unpaid claims
and hereby authorizes her, and all attorneys employed by Portnoff Law
Associates, Ltd., to sign any and all documents, including municipal claims and
liens, on behalf of the borough.
(Ord. 290-2022, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 33.156 PROPERTY TAX PENALTY WAIVER PROVISIONS.
   The Tax Collector of Tatamy Borough, will comply with the provisions of Act
57 and this section for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
given to them within this section unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
      ADDITIONAL CHARGE. Any interest, fee, penalty, or charge accruing to and
in excess of the face amount of the real estate tax as provided in the real
estate tax notice.
      QUALIFYING EVENT.
         (a)   For the purposes of real property, the date of transfer of
ownership.
         (b)   For manufactured or mobile homes, the date of transfer of
ownership or the date a lease agreement commences for the original location or
relocation of a manufactured or mobile home on a parcel of land not owned by
the owner of the manufactured or mobile home. The term does not include the
renewal of a lease for the same location.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The elected Tax Collector for Tatamy Borough, Northampton
County, any authorized or designated delinquent Tax Collector, the Northampton
County Tax Claim Bureau, or any alternative collector of taxes as provided for
in the act of July 7, 1947 (P.L.1368, No.542), known as the "Real Estate Tax
Sale Law," an employee, agent or assignee authorized to collect the tax, a
purchaser of claim for the tax or any other person authorized by law or
contract to secure collection of, or take any action at law or in equity
against the person or property of the taxpayer for the real estate tax or
amounts, liens or claims derived from the real estate tax.
   (B)   Waiver. The Tax Collector shall, for tax years beginning on and after
January 1, 2023, grant a request to waive additional charges for real estate
taxes if the taxpayer does all of the following:
      (1)   Provides a waiver request of additional charges, on a form provided
by the state Department of Community and Economic Development, to the Tax
Collector in possession of the claim within 12 months of a qualifying event;
      (2)   Attests that a tax notice was not received;
      (3)   Provides the Tax Collector in possession of the claim with one of
the following:
         (a)   A copy of the deed showing the date of real property transfer;
or
         (b)   A copy of the title following the acquisition of a mobile or
manufactured home subject to taxation as real estate showing the date of
issuance or a copy of an executed lease agreement between the owner of a mobile
or manufactured home and the owner of a parcel of land on which the mobile or
manufactured home will be situated showing the date the lease commences.
      (4)   Pays the face value amount of the tax notice for the real estate
tax with the waiver request.
(Res. 2022-013, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person failing, neglecting or refusing to pay the amount of
the real estate transfer tax shall be required to pay the amount hereof,
together with interest thereon, until paid, and/or undergo imprisonment for
violation of §§
33.025 through
33.036 for a period not to exceed 30 days.
      (2)   Any person failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of
the provisions or terms of §§
33.025 through
33.036, or of any regulations or requirement authorized by §§
33.025 through
33.036, shall be fined not more than $300 or imprisoned not more than 90 days,
or both.
   (C)   Whosoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required
by §§
33.050 through
33.063, or who refuses inspection of his or her books, records or accounts in
his or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
33.050 through
33.063, shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement
proceeding commenced by the borough before a magisterial district judge, pay a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $600, plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the borough in the enforcement of §§
33.050 through
33.063. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the
violation by the magisterial district judge. If the defendant neither pays nor
timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to
the applicable Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of
the borough are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including
injunction, to enforce compliance herewith. It is further provided that the
action to enforce the fine and penalty herein provided may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who has failed or
refuses to file a return required by §§
33.050 through
33.063.
   (D)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
33.095 through
33.108, or who refuses inspection of his or her books, records or accounts in
his or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
33.095 through
33.108 shall, upon conviction before any justice of the peace, alderman or
magistrate, be sentenced to pay a fine for each offense of not more than $300,
or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both. It is further provided that the
action to enforce the fine and penalty herein provided may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who has failed or
refuses to file a return required by §§
33.095 through
33.108.
(Ord. 42-1967, passed 3-6-1967; Ord. 51-1968, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 215, passed
2-7-2005)
CHAPTER 34: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
34.01   Fee schedule
§ 34.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
Tatamy Borough 2020 Fee Schedule
Adopted 1-6-2020; Effective 1-1-2020
Tatamy Borough 2020 Fee Schedule
Adopted 1-6-2020; Effective 1-1-2020
Permits and Fees
Items with an (*) after them require inspection by an approved inspector, paid for by the requestor;
the type of inspection (electrical, plumbing, structural and the like) will be determined by the
permit activities performed
   Administration Fee
      An administrative fee of 15% will be added to all third party reviews to co r
internal administration costs
   Buildings and Structures
      Commercial/industrial buildings (*)
         Base fee for building permit (plus following fee)                    $500
         New construction - fee of $0.25/sq. ft.
      Conditional use hearing                                                    $600
      Curative amendment or borough ordinance changes                            $5,000
         Subsequent hearings per each                                         $500
      Residential building/zoning permits (*)
         Base fee for all building permits (plus following fees)              $50
            up to 1,500 sq. ft.                                            $200
            from 1,501 to 2,000 sq. ft.                                    $250
            from 2,001 to 2,500 sq. ft.                                    $300
            from 2,501 to 3,000 sq. ft.                                    $350
            from 3,001 to 3,500 sq. ft.                                    $400
            plus $15 per 200 sq. ft. above 3,500 sq. ft. or portion thereof
      Zoning Hearing Board, initial hearing                                      $900
      Zoning Hearing Board, subsequent hearing (each)                            $500
   Certificate of Occupancy
      For all above/in ground swimming pools or outdoor hot tubs (*)             $20
      For all occupied structures, buildings or units (*)                        $25
   Claims Municipal
      Delinquent account collection fees                                          
         Preparation and filing of municipal liens                            $100
         Attorney fee for preparation of delinquent refuse account collection $50ter
         Attorney fees incurred in the collection of delinquent accounts inclu$125 per hour
but not limited to, district justice and/or common pleas actions
            Additionally, the owner shall be responsible for all costs of collection
in addition to attorney fees including, but not limited to, filing fees and court fees  
as may be paid by the borough
   Dumpster/POD/Temporary Storage Permit                                               $15
   Construction Trailer Permit
      Per trailer, per year or fraction thereof                                  $50
      plus $500 escrow
   Fee Schedule to Comply with IMPC § 302.4
      For 2-man job                                                               
         Equipment (mower and weed wacker)                                    $30
         Gas                                                                  $15
         Hauling and bagging                                                  $10
         Wages                                                                $45
      For a total of $100                                                        $100 per hour
   Fines and Penalties
      As set by law, referenced externally                                        
      Failure to acquire permit and/or pay fee prior to the inception of any
individual activity covered in the fee schedule will incur a penalty or 25% of the      
individual activity’s fee, or $50, whichever is greater; the penalty applies to each
permit and/or fee, individually
   Fire and Other Natural Disaster Rebuilding Permit
      Industrial/commercial/income producing residential units (*)                
         Base fee for all rebuilding permits (plus following fees)            $50
            up to 1,500 sq. ft.                                            $200
            from 1,501 to 2,000 sq. ft.                                    $250
            from 2,001 to 2,500 sq. ft.                                    $300
            from 2,501 to 3,000 sq. ft.                                    $350
            from 3,001 to 3,500 sq. ft.                                    $400
            plus $15 per 200 sq. ft. above 3,500 sq. ft. or portion thereof 
      Residential dwelling unit rebuilding permit (*)                            $50
   Floodplain Zoning Permit Application Submission Fee                              $75
   Grading Plan Review
                                                                                       Minimum
      Commercial construction                                                    $1,000 or as
                                                                                       per engineer
                                                                                       review
      In-ground pools                                                            $500
      New single-family dwelling residential                                     $750
   Interior Alterations and Renovations
      Industrial/commercial/income producing residential units (*)                
         Base fee for all building permits (plus following fees)              $50
            up to 1,500 sq. ft.                                            $200
            from 1,501 to 2,000 sq. ft.                                    $250
            from 2,001 to 2,500 sq. ft.                                    $300
            from 2,501 to 3,000 sq. ft.                                    $350
            from 3,001 to 3,500 sq. ft.                                    $400
            plus $15 per 200 sq. ft. above 3,500 sq. ft. or portion thereof 
      Residential dwelling unit (*)                                               
         Building permit                                                      $50
   Miscellaneous Structures
      Curb and sidewalk installation (new and replacement) (*)                   $50
         (Commercial/industrial/income producing residential units)
         Must meet borough specifications, plus $500 escrow
      Curb and sidewalk installation (new and replacement) (*)                   $25
         (Residential dwelling units)
         Must meet borough specifications, plus $100 escrow
      Demolition permit (commercial/industrial/income producing residential units$100 plus
structure or unit) (*)                                                                 $1,000 escrow
      Demolition permit (residential dwelling units, per structure) (*)          $35 plus $500
                                                                                       escrow
      Driveway (commercial/industrial/income producing residential units) on boro$50
streets and roads, state highway permits required on state roads
      Driveway (residential dwelling units)                                      $25
      Fences - all (split rail, picket, stockade and the like)                   $25
      Fireplaces/stoves/chimneys/furnaces (new and replacement) (*)              $25
      Sheds, decks (*)                                                           $25
         Roofed patios, sun rooms, covered decks (*)                          $50
      Signs
         Billboards (*)                                                       $100
         Permanent signs (new) (*)                                            $50
         Permanent signs (replacement) (*)                                    $25
      Swimming pools (above ground) or outdoor hot tubs (*)                      $35
   Moving Permit (ingress and egress, each)                                         $5
   Professional Services
                                                                                       Actual cost
      Administrative assistant                                                   of hours
                                                                                       needed
      Engineer                                                                   $117/$110.7 5
                                                                                       per hour
      Sewer Authority Engineer                                                   $127/$111.5 0
                                                                                       per hour
      Solicitor
         Litigation                                                           $200 per hour
         Standard                                                             $125 per hour
      Zoning Hearing Board Solicitor                                                $65 per
                                                                                       hour
   Recreation Fee
      To be paid when building permit is issued                                   
         For each new industrial/commercial/income producing residential unit $10,780
            per each 100 cubic feet or fraction thereof                    $1
         For each new residential dwelling unit                               $3,080
   Refuse Collection Fee
      Paid in semi-annual installments                                              $200
                                                                                       yearly
   Requests for Public Records
      Certification of a public record                                           $5
      Facsimile/microfiche/other media                                           Actual cost
      Photocopies (borough supplied)                                             $0.25
                                                                                       Actual cost
      Postage                                                                    of the
                                                                                       mailing
      Returned check/insufficient funds bank fee                                 $50
      Specialized documents ( blue prints, color copies, non-standard sized documActual cost
         Note: prepayment will be required if the fees are expected to exceed  00
                                                                    No charge unless the property
                                                                    owner has requested the service,
   Stake-Out Fee                                                 in which case, the property
                                                                    owner will be responsible for
                                                                    the Borough Engineer fees
   Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance Book (SALDO)                          $35
   Tatamy Borough Sewer Project Manual                                              $100
   Tatamy Borough Standard Sewer Specifications Book                                $25
   Tree Trimming Fee in Compliance with Ordinance 53-1968
      For 2-man job                                                               
         Equipment                                                            $30
         Gas                                                                  $15
         Hauling and bagging                                                  $10
         Wages                                                                $45
      For a total of $100                                                        $100 per hour
   UCC Code Appeal                                               Per Nazareth COG
   UCC Education Fund Fee                                                           $4.50
   Yard Sale Permit
      After first yard sale and community yard sale                              $10
   Zoning Ordinance Book                                                            $25
Land Development and/or Subdivision Fees
   The following escrow and fee schedule (Columns A and B below) includes costs for
administrative, engineering and legal activities appropriate to the complexities of     
land development and/or subdivision
   If, in the opinion of Borough Council, the actual costs incurred by the borough for
advertising, transcription, legal services, engineering services and professional
consulting services exceeds the amount of the escrow deposited as indicated by the      
below schedule, no zoning/building permit shall be issued until such time as the
appellant shall deposit with the borough a sum sufficient to reimburse the borough for
the aforesaid costs
   The borough may, during the course of the review of any application, require the
applicant to deposit that amount sufficient to reimburse ongoing costs to the borough;  
failure to pay said sums within ten days of billing thereof shall be sufficient
grounds for the denial of subdivision or land development approval
   The following deposits (items a. through g. in Column A below) shall be set up as
an escrow account, to be replenished by the applicant when the escrow account level     
reaches 50% or less; these escrow accounts will also act as construction escrow
accounts to cover ongoing project costs as detailed above
   With each preliminary or final plan submissions in the review process the following
fee schedule (items a. through g. in Column B below) will apply; items h. and i. are    
one-time fees.
   Escrow and fee schedule                                                           
                                                                   (A) Escrow         (B)
                                                                                       Fee
   a. A 2 lot subdivision                                        $2,000             $500
   b. A 5 or less lot subdivision                                $5,000             $500
      plus for each additional lot 3, 4 or 5                  $100               $100
   c. All single-family dwelling unit development                $5,000             $1,000
      plus for each lot over the first 10 lots                $100               $100
   d. All multiple-family dwelling unit development              $5,000             $500
      plus for each dwelling unit after the second            $200               $100
   e. Commercial/industrial, either subdivisions or development  $7,500             $1,000
      plus for each acre or fraction thereof                  $100               $100
   f. Planned residential development                            $5,000             $500
      plus for each dwelling unit after the second            $200               $100
   g. Land development submission                                $5,000             $500
      plus for each acre or fraction thereof                                     $200
   h. Sketch plan submission                                                        $300
   i. Pre-construction meeting (actual cost to be charged to the                    $50 minimum
developer)
Sewage Permit Fees
   Following fees from 1. through 4. as per current SEO Fee Schedule and are subject 
to change without modification of this fee schedule
   1. Test pit profile analysis                                                      
      1.1 Permit application (single lot) - the property owner or his or her
representative will be required to set up an appointment with the Sewage Enforcement
Officer (SEO) to arrange for evaluation of the pit, collection of necessary site data,
taking of necessary slope readings and notation of all soil mapping information. The    
owner is required to supply the necessary excavation and any information pertinent to
the application. At this time the SEO will try to answer any questions that the owner
may have in reference to his or her system planning or permit procedure
         Per pit evaluation                                                   $75
         Quantity evaluation (per perc site)                                  $75
      1.2. Subdivision planning - the subdivision is required to supply a drawing of
the proposed subdivision delineating proposed subsurface disposal areas (drawn to
scale) for each lot and shall have physically marked these areas in the field
according to their individual location on the subdivision plan; at this point the
subdivider will contact the Borough SEO to set up an appointment to arrange for the
SEO’s observation of the pit; the developer shall retain a soil scientist, or other   
qualified individual, to evaluate individual probes; this is typically performed for
general site suitability and planning module preparation; if either soil conditions or
slopes exist which would indicate unsuitable sites, the subdivider may have to
incorporate this area into acceptable surrounding proposed plots; the subdivider must
provide all necessary equipment and labor
         Per pit observation                                                  $75
         Quantity observation (per perc site)                                 $60
   2. Percolation test (limited to six holes)
      Complete                                                                   $325
      Observation                                                                $200
      Partial                                                                    $265
   3. On-lot disposal permit application fees                                        
      Final inspection (sand mound)                                              $225
      Final inspection (standard system)                                         $100
      Minor repair (building sewer/transmission line)                            $85
      New                                                                        $85
      Pre-construction inspection                                                $100
   4. System malfunction (per hour)                                                 $55
   5. Sewer lateral connection fee
      Connection fee (per EDU)                                                   $4,011
   6. Sewer lateral inspection                                                      $84 per hour
   7. New or additional sewer lateral installation                                   
      All work is contracted and paid for by the applicant, using an approved and
licensed contractor. The applicant is responsible for all costs associated with
estimate preparation, engineering, inspection and any other fees associated with the    
project. The new lateral is only provided to the applicant’s property line (edge of
borough’s right-of-way)
   8. Fee for bounced sewer payment checks                                          $50
   9. Water termination processing fee
      Reconnection fee                                                           $30
      Shut off fee                                                               $30
Miscellaneous
   Mailbox reimbursement
      Reimbursement for mailbox damaged by borough                                  $50
Mileage - current federal guidelines and amounts apply (2020 rate $.575)
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   JOINT SEWER AUTHORITY
      
52.   SEWAGE CONNECTIONS; PLUMBERS
      
53.   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM; POLICY, RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
54.   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
      
55.   WASTEWATER
      
56.   SEWER TAPPING
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Title
   
50.002   Definitions
Storage of Municipal Waste
   
50.015   General
   
50.016   Storage on residential properties
   
50.017   Storage on commercial, institutional and industrial properties
Authorization of Collectors
   
50.030   Unauthorized collection and transportation
   
50.031   Licensing procedure
Transportation of Solid Waste
   
50.045   Prevention of spillage
Disposal of Municipal Waste
   
50.060   Designated facilities
   
50.061   Notice to collectors
Exclusions
   
50.075   Individuals not engaged in collection
   
50.076   Hazardous and residual waste
Refuse Tax
   
50.090   Title
   
50.091   Definitions
   
50.092   Amount and manner of computation of charges
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Borough of Tatamy Municipal Solid
Waste Ordinance”.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person desirous of being authorized as a COLLECTOR.
   AUTHORIZED COLLECTOR. A person authorized to collect, transport and dispose
of municipal waste from the borough.
   BOROUGH. Tatamy Borough, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in a nonmanufacturing or
nonprocessing business, including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office
buildings, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
   DISPOSAL SITE. Any site, facility, location, area or premises to be used for
the disposal of municipal waste.
   DISPOSALS. The incineration, deposition, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking or placing of municipal waste into or on the land or water in a manner
that the waste or a constituent of the waste enters the environment, is emitted
into the air, or is discharged to the waters of the commonwealth.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes attending or resulting from the
handling, dealing, storing, preparation, cooking and consumption of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
processing, including, but not limited to, factories, foundries, mills,
processing plants, refineries and the like.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in service to
persons, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages,
schools and universities.
   MANAGEMENT. The entire process or any part thereof, of storage, collection,
transportation, processing, treatment and disposal of municipal waste by any
person engaging in such process.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste from a municipal,
commercial or institutional water supply treatment plan, wastewater treatment
plant or air pollution control facility (35 P.S. § 6018.103).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution,
cooperative, enterprise, municipal, authority, federal government or agency,
state institution and agency, or any other legal entity whatsoever which is
recognized by law as being subject to the rights and duties of a PERSON.
   PROCESSING.
      (1)   Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or bulk
of municipal waste or any technology used to convert part or all of such waste
materials for off-site reuse.
      (2)   PROCESSING FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, transfer
facilities, composting facilities, incinerators, recycling facilities and
resource recovery facilities.
   REFUSE. The collective term applying to all garbage, rubbish, ashes, leaves
and grass trimmings from residential, municipal, commercial or institutional
premises.
   REGULAR. At least three or more times per month.
   SOLID WASTE. Any waste, including, but not limited to, municipal, residual
or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
materials (35 P.S. § 6018.103).
   STORAGE. The containment of any municipal waste on a temporary basis in such
a manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste, and it shall be presumed
that the containment of any municipal waste in excess of one year constitutes
disposal.
   TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any municipal waste generated or
present at any time from the borough.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
STORAGE OF MUNICIPAL WASTE
§ 50.015 GENERAL.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of property and every person occupying
any dwelling unit, premises or place of business within the borough where
municipal waste is produced and is accumulated, by his or her own expense and
cost, to provide and keep at all times a sufficient number of containers to
hold all municipal waste which may accumulate during the intervals between
collection of such municipal waste by any authorized collector.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.016 STORAGE ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Containers. All municipal waste accumulated by owners of each
residential property and/or the occupants of residential properties shall be
placed in containers for collection by an authorized collector. The containers
shall be durable, watertight and made of metal or plastic. Securely tied
plastic bags may be used in cases where such bags can be used without being
torn open by domestic or wild animals. The size of each such container shall
not exceed a 30-gallon capacity. However, large containers designed for use
with special hoisting equipment may be used if the authorized collector serving
the residence uses collection vehicles with such special hoisting equipment.
   (B)   Location of containers. Each municipal waste container shall be
located so as to be accessible to the authorized collector at ground level and
at a point on the curb line of the street, or within no less than ten feet of
the public street or alley right-of-way from which collection from a vehicle
can be made. Failure to place containers at such locations may result in
discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.017 STORAGE ON COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Containers. Storage of municipal waste on commercial, institutional
and industrial properties shall be done in the same type of containers as are
required for residential properties except that containers larger than 30
gallons may be used, where needed, to accommodate larger volumes of municipal
wastes. Such containers shall be kept in good working order.
   (B)   Location of containers. Containers for collection at commercial,
institutional and industrial properties shall be located on such premises at a
place which shall not interfere with public or private sidewalks, driveways,
roads, streets, highways or entrances and exits or public or private buildings.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
50.999
AUTHORIZATION OF COLLECTORS
§ 50.030 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   It shall be lawful for any person, other than such persons as are duly
authorized by the borough, to collect and transport solid waste of any nature
as a regular hauling business within or from the borough. Authorization shall
be given only as set forth below.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authorization to collect, transport and dispose of municipal waste for
persons other than oneself may be given only by the borough through the
issuance of a license.
   (B)   All applications for licensing shall be approved in accordance with
the following.
      (1)   Eligible persons. Municipal solid waste collection licenses may be
issued to only those persons who can provide satisfactory evidence that they
are capable of providing the necessary services and can comply with the
provisions and intent of this subchapter. The borough reserves the right to
disapprove any application for license.
      (2)   Application procedure. Applicants for a municipal solid waste
collection license must furnish the following information:
         (a)   The make, model, license plate number and size of each vehicle
to be used for collection and transportation;
         (b)   The location, address and telephone number of the business
office of the applicant;
         (c)   A certificate of the applicant’s worker’s compensation insurance
as required by law;
         (d)   A certificate of insurance coverage providing complete third-
party comprehensive, bodily injury and property damage, liability insurance,
the limits of which shall not be less than $100,000/$300,000 for bodily injury
and $50,000 for property damage; and
         (e)   Any other information which the borough may request and deem
necessary prior to the issuance of a license.
      (3)   Issuance. Licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis or for
such other period of time as the borough deems advantageous, but may be revoked
at any time by the borough for failure to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (4)   Fees. Fees for licenses shall be set by the borough and information
regarding fees and procedure for application shall be provided to any applicant
or other person upon request.
      (5)   License and capacity. Each vehicle must prominently display the
name and number of the licensee and the cubic yard capacity of the vehicle’s
body.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.045 PREVENTION OF SPILLAGE.
   Any person transporting solid waste within the borough shall prevent or
immediately remedy any spillage from vehicles or containers used in the
transport of such solid waste.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
50.999
DISPOSAL OF MUNICIPAL WASTE
§ 50.060 DESIGNATED FACILITIES.
   (A)   All municipal waste produced, collected and transported from within
the jurisdictional limits of the borough shall be, to the extent permitted by
law, disposed of at any disposal facilities designated by the borough and in
accordance with any currently effective solid waste management plan of the
borough.
   (B)   In the absence of such designated facilities and/or such currently
effective solid waste management plan, municipal waste from the borough must be
disposed of at a state-permitted facility.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 50.061 NOTICE TO COLLECTORS.
   If the borough designates the disposal facilities as provided for above, all
authorized collectors and other interested persons shall be informed of the
location and other information pertaining to the designated disposal facilities
to be used for the disposal of municipal waste collected, transported, removed
and disposed.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
EXCLUSIONS
§ 50.075 INDIVIDUALS NOT ENGAGED IN COLLECTION.
   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prohibit any residential
property occupant not regularly engaged in the business of collecting municipal
waste from hauling his or her own municipal waste on an irregular and
unscheduled basis to a state-permitted disposal facility.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 50.076 HAZARDOUS AND RESIDUAL WASTE.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to anything but the storage,
collection, transportation and disposal of municipal waste and do not apply,
therefore, to hazardous or residual waste as defined by the Pennsylvania Solid
Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986)
REFUSE TAX
§ 50.090 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Refuse Tax
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 135-1988, passed 1-4-1988)
§ 50.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLING UNIT. Any dwelling or non-dwelling units for which collection
service is provided.
   REFUSE. Includes all garbage, rubbish, leaves and ashes.
(Ord. 135-1988, passed 1-4-1988)
§ 50.092 AMOUNT AND MANNER OF COMPUTATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The charges are hereby imposed as follows. A base charge of $185,
biannually is imposed on the owner of each billing unit. The service for which
this charge is made is the removal from the premises, once weekly, of the
contents defined as refuse. Recycling shall occur every other week. Failure to
pay the charge on or before the due date shall result in the following
penalties:
      (1)   After 30 days: $10.
      (2)   After 60 days: $20.
   (B)   The charge for collecting refuse from a multi-unit premises with a
single owner shall be, bi-annually $185 multiplied by the number of units
unless the equities of a particular situation require an adjustment to be made
effective by special regulation.
(Ord. 135-1988, passed 1-4-1988; Ord. 257-2012, passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 272-2016,
passed 12-5-2016; Ord. 288-2022, passed 1-3-2022) Penalty, see §  
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Solid waste.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.001,
50.002,
50.015 through
50.017,
50.030,
50.031,
50.045,
50.060,
50.061,
50.075 and
50.076 shall, upon conviction by a district magistrate, be subject to a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $500 together with the costs of prosecution,
and/or imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days.
         (b)   Every violator of the provisions of §§
50.001,
50.002,
50.015 through
50.017,
50.030,
50.031,
50.045,
50.060,
50.061,
50.075 and
50.076 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day such
violation shall continue and shall be subject to the penalty imposed by this
division (B) for each and every such separate offense.
      (2)   Additional remedies. In addition to the foregoing penalty, the
borough may require the owner or occupant of a property to remove any
accumulation of solid waste and should said person fail to remove such solid
waste after ten days following written notice, the borough may cause the solid
waste to be collected and disposed of with the costs for such actions to be
charged to the owner or occupant of the property in a manner provided by law
including the imposition of a municipal lien.
      (3)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall
not preclude the borough from instituting appropriate actions or proceedings to
prevent the violation of §§
50.001,
50.002,
50.015 through
50.017,
50.030,
50.031,
50.045,
50.060,
50.061,
50.075 and
50.076, to restrain, correct or abate any such violation, or to prevent any
act, conduct, business or activity constituting a violation.
   (C)   Refuse tax. Failure to pay the charge, in §
50.092, on or before the due date shall result in the following penalties:
 
After 30 days $10
After 60 days $20
 
(Ord. 127-1986, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 135-1988, passed 1-4-1988; Ord. 257-2012,
passed 1-3-2012; Ord. 272-2016, passed 12-5-2016)
CHAPTER 51: JOINT SEWER AUTHORITY
Section
   
51.01   Creating a joint sewer board
   
51.02   Tatamy Borough Sewer Authority
   
51.03   Adopting the rules and regulations of the Easton Joint Sewer Authority
§ 51.01 CREATING A JOINT SEWER BOARD.
   (A)   The Borough Council, being the governing body of the said
municipality, hereby signifies its intention and desire to join with other
municipalities of the said Northampton County to organize a joint sewer board
under the provisions of 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended, for the purpose
of securing preliminary, surveys and estimates and acting generally as an
advisory and administrative agency in constructing, improving, maintaining and
operating sewers and sewer systems, including trunk line sewers or drains and
sewage treatment works.
   (B)   One representative of this municipality shall be appointed on the said
Joint Sewer Board by resolution of Council, and any vacancy in such position
may be filled by Council by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   The Joint Sewer Board is authorized to appoint an engineer, a
solicitor and such other assistants as are deemed necessary, and Council may
agree to the share of the compensation and costs the borough shall pay to such
persons or board, by resolution.
   (D)   The President and Secretary/Treasurer of the Borough Council are
hereby directed to do all such other things necessary or appropriate to effect
the participation by the borough in a Joint Sewer Board.
(Ord. 52-1968, passed 3-4-1968)
§ 51.02 TATAMY BOROUGH SEWER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the desire of the borough to organize an authority under the
provisions of 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., as amended. It is the intention of
said Council to organize such an authority.
   (B)   Proposed articles of incorporation of the authority in full will be as
follows.
      (1)   The name of the authority shall be the “Tatamy Borough Sewer
Authority”.
      (2)   This authority is formed under the Act of General Assembly of the
Commonwealth, which was approved May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended.
      (3)   No other authority organized under the Act or under the Act
approved June 28, 1935, P.L. 463, is in existence in or for the said
incorporating municipality, except as follows: “The Easton Area Joint Sewer
Authority”, a Pennsylvania municipal authority, created by the City of Easton,
the Boroughs of Stockertown, Tatamy, West Easton and Wilson, and the Townships
of Bushkill, Forks, Palmer, Plainfield and Upper Nazareth.
      (4)   The purposes of the authority are as follows: to acquire, hold,
construct, improve, maintain and operate, own, lease, either in the capacity of
lessor or lessee, projects of the following kind and character, to wit:
buildings and structures to be devoted wholly or partially for public use and
for revenue purposes, sewers, sewer systems or part thereof, sewage treatment
works including works for treating and disposing of industrial waste
facilities, and all facilities in any way used, useful, necessary, convenient
or incidental to the furtherance and operations of such projects.
      (5)   The name of the incorporating municipality is the Borough of
Tatamy; and its address is 423 Broad Street, Tatamy, Northampton County,
Pennsylvania.
   (C)   The several officers of the borough are hereby authorized and directed
to do and perform every lawful, requisite and convenient thing for the
organization of the said authority which is provided and authorized by 53
Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.
(Ord. 137-1988, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 51.03 ADOPTING THE RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE EASTON JOINT SEWER AUTHORITY.
   The borough hereby approves the rules and regulations of the Easton Area
Joint Sewer Authority adopted on December 19, 1988, and as amended on July 17,
1989, imposing a sewer user charge system for the use of the treatment works;
providing for the collection thereof; regulating the discharge of waste into
the sewer system and into the treatment works; defining prohibited discharges;
providing for pretreatment standards; providing for permits, fees, sampling and
inspection of industrial users; providing for the delineation of charges for
industrial waste; providing for enforcement of these rules and regulations and
penalties, and each and all of the rules and regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of the said rules and regulations of the Easton Area Joint
Sewer Authority adopted on December 19, 1988, and as amended on July 17, 1989
and February 17, 1997.
(Res. 1996-05, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 171-1997, passed 2-17-1997)
CHAPTER 52: SEWAGE CONNECTIONS; PLUMBERS
Section
Connections and Plumbers
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Permit needed
   
52.03   Application for permit
   
52.04   Sewage connections
   
52.05   Separate connections
   
52.06   Costs and expenses
   
52.07   Ditches
   
52.08   Plumbers
   
52.09   Connection
   
52.10   Rules and regulations governing sewers and connection sewers
   
52.11   Inspection
   
52.12   Sanitary and safe operation
   
52.13   Excavations
   
52.14   Plumbing Inspector
   
52.15   Notice
   
52.16   Adoption of additional rules and regulations
Occupied Buildings and Connections
   
52.30   Definitions
   
52.31   Occupied buildings
   
52.32   Privies, cesspools and the like
   
52.33   Connections generally
   
52.34   Discharge of sanitary sewage
   
52.35   Connection required
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CONNECTIONS AND PLUMBERS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Tatamy Borough Sewer Authority, a Pennsylvania municipal
authority.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania, a
political subdivision, acting by and through its Borough Council or in
appropriate case, by and through its authorized representatives.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure starting from a point three feet outside of the outer walls of the
structured building to the lateral of a sewer system.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property located within the borough upon which there
is an erected structure (occupied building) intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy, for any purpose whatsoever by human beings or animals
and from which structure sanitary sewage and/or industrial waste shall be or
may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance, or form of energy
ejected or escaping the course of any industrial, manufacturing or trade or
business process or in the course of development, recovery or processing of
natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LATERAL. The part of the sewer system extending from the sewer to the curb
line or, if there shall be no curb line, to the property line, or if no such
lateral shall be provided, then LATERAL shall mean that portion of or place in
the sewer which is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   OCCUPIED BUILDING. Each single dwelling unit, household unit, flat or
apartment unit, store, shop, office, business or industrial unit, or family
unit contained within any structure erected within 150 feet from the sewer
system, and intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by
human beings or animals, and from which structure sanitary sewage is, or may
be, discharged.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water-carried household and toilet waste discharged
from any improved property.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system, used or
useable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and/or disposing sanitary sewage and/or
industrial waste, situated in the borough.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Includes any highway, street, road, lane, alley, court or
public square.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.02 PERMIT NEEDED.
   No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into or use, alter
or disturb, in any manner, any sewer or the sewer system, without first making
application for and securing a permit, in writing, from this borough or its
designee.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for permit required under §
52.02 shall be made by the owner of the improved property to be served, or his
or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.04 SEWAGE CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made a connection of any improved
property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of the
following conditions.
   (A)   Such person shall have notified the Borough Secretary/Treasurer or
designee of the desire and intention to connect such improved property to the
sewer system.
   (B)   Such person shall have applied for and obtained a permit as required
by §
52.02.
   (C)   Such person shall have given the Borough Secretary/Treasurer or
designee at least 24 hours’ notice of the time when such connection will be
made so that the authority may inspect the work of connection and necessary
testing.
   (D)   Such person shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the Borough
Secretary/Treasurer or designee that any tapping fee charged and imposed by the
authority against the owner of each occupied building who connects such
improved property to the sewer system has been paid.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each occupied building shall
be connected separately and independently to the sewer system through a
building sewer. Grouping of more than one occupied building on one building
sewer shall not be permitted, except under special circumstances and for good
sanitary reasons or other good cause shown, and then only after special
permission of this borough, in writing, shall have been secured and subject to
such rules, regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by this borough or
its designee. Where more than one occupied building as herein before defined is
contained in a separate structure, single common connection to the lateral of
the sewer system may be permitted for accommodating all units contained in such
structure, except that separate connections shall be required for each semi-
detached or row-type house or structure.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.06 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all costs and
expenses of connection of a building sewer to the sewer system shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and save this borough and the authority from all loss or damage that
may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of construction of a
building sewer or of connection of a building sewer to the sewer system.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.07 DITCHES.
   Property owners shall be permitted to dig their own ditches and engage in
plumbing inside the walls of structures on their own property only, subject to
inspection and approval by the Plumbing Inspector, except that only a plumber
or plumbing firm holding a registered plumber’s license issued by the borough
will be permitted to install a building sewer extending from a point three feet
outside of the outer walls of the structure (building) which connects to sewer
system.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.08 PLUMBERS.
   (A)   No person other than a registered master plumber, as herein provided,
shall be permitted to make sewage connections as defined herein unless he or
she has first secured a license or certificate, been registered in the office
of the borough, and provided verification of worker’s compensation coverage (if
applicable) and liability insurance in a minimum amount of $500,000.
   (B)   Any master or journeyman plumber, registered with the City of Easton,
City of Bethlehem or City of Allentown, may, upon presentation of his or her
credentials to the borough, be registered to work in the borough for one
calendar year, upon payment to the borough of a registration fee of $5.
   (C)   Any master plumber, not registered with the aforementioned
municipalities, may upon presentation of credentials to the borough, be
registered to work in the borough upon payment to the borough of a registration
fee of $5.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.09 CONNECTION.
   (A)   A building sewer shall be connected to the sewer system at the place
designated by this borough or the authority and where the lateral is provided.
Building sewer construction shall be in accordance with the Building
Administrators and Code Administrators (BOCA) National Plumbing Code, 8th
Edition, 1990, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., and each and all of the regulations and provisions
regarding construction of a building sewer of said BOCA National Plumbing Code
are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section. The building sewer construction shall be in compliance with the
sewer building drain detail below.
    (B)   The invert “T” of a building sewer at the point of connection to the
sewer system (lateral) shall be at the same or higher elevation than the invert
of the sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection of the
building sewer to the lateral shall be made secure and watertight.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING SEWERS AND CONNECTION SEWERS.
   Where an improved property at the time connection to the sewer system is
required shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or device, the
existing house sewer line shall be broken within three feet of the outside wall
of the structure of such sewage disposal system or device, and attachment shall
be made, with proper fittings, to continue such house sewer line, as a building
sewer.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.11 INSPECTION.
   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and approved
by this borough. If any part of the building sewer is covered before so being
inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection at the cost and
expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to the sewer
system.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 SANITARY AND SAFE OPERATION.
   Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.13 EXCAVATIONS.
   Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Streets,
sidewalks and all other public property disturbed in the course of installation
of a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of the owner of
the improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to this
borough.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.14 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Borough Council is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a competent
person as Plumbing Inspector, and fix the salary thereof, whose duties shall be
to inspect all sewage connections, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter and such rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted
by Borough Council or the authority.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.15 NOTICE.
   If any person shall fail or refuse, upon receipt of notice from this borough
or, the authority, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory conditions with
respect to a building sewer, within 60 days from receipt of such notice, this
borough may refuse to permit such person to discharge sanitary sewage and
industrial waste into the sewage system until such unsatisfactory condition
shall be remedied to the satisfaction of this borough or authority.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.16 ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This borough or its designee reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with the sewer and the sewer system, which additional rules and
regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be, and shall be construed as, a
part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
OCCUPIED BUILDINGS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Tatamy Borough Sewer Authority, a Pennsylvania municipal
authority.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania, a
political subdivision acting by and through Borough Council, or in appropriate
case, by and through its authorized representatives.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property located within the borough upon which there
is erected a structure (occupied building) intended for continuous or periodic
habitation or occupancy, for any purpose whatsoever by human beings or animals
and from which structure sanitary sewage and/or industrial waste shall be or
may be discharged.
   LATERAL. The part of the sewer system extending from sewer to the curb line,
or if there shall be no curb line, to the property line, or if no such lateral
shall be provided, then LATERAL shall mean that portion of or place in a sewer
which is provided for connection of any building’s sewer.
   OCCUPIED BUILDING. Each single dwelling unit, household unit, flat or
apartment unit, store, shop, office, business or industrial unit, or family
unit contained within any structure erected within 150 feet from the sewer
system, and intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by
human beings or animals, and from which structure sanitary sewage is, or may
be, discharged.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   PROPERTY ACCESSIBLE TO THE SEWER SYSTEM. Improved property which adjoins,
abuts on, or is adjacent to, the sewage collection system.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The normal water-carried household and toilet waste
discharged from any improved property.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
useable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and/or disposing sanitary sewage and/or
industrial waste, situate in the Borough.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 52.31 OCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All persons owning any occupied building now erected upon property in
the borough accessible to the sewer system shall, at their own expense, connect
such building with the sewer system within 60 days after written notice to such
persons from the authority, to make such connection for the purpose of
discharge of all sanitary sewage and industrial waste from such improved
property, subject to such limitations and restrictions as shall be established
by the authority from time to time.
   (B)   All persons owning any property in the borough accessible to the sewer
system upon which an occupied building is hereafter erected shall, at the time
of the erection of such building, and at their own expense, connect the same
with the sewer system.
   (C)   All persons owning any occupied building upon improved property in the
borough which hereafter becomes accessible to the sewer system shall, at their
own expense, connect such building with the sewer system within 60 days after
notice to do so from the authority.
   (D)   Where more than one occupied property, as defined in §
52.30, is contained in a separate structure, single common connection to the
lateral of the sewer system may be permitted for accommodating all units
contained in such structure, except that separate connections shall be required
for each semi-detached or row-type house or structure.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning any property in the borough
accessible to the sewer system to erect, construct, use or maintain, or cause
to be erected, constructed, used or maintained, any privy, cesspool, sinkhole,
septic tank or other receptacle on such premises for receiving sanitary sewage
after the expiration of the particular period specified in §
52.31, or otherwise at any time to erect, construct, use or maintain pipe,
conduit, drain or other facility for the discharge of sanitary sewage into the
gutters of the borough, the storm sewers of the borough, or upon public or
private property or otherwise, except into the sewer system.
   (B)   Any person who erects, constructs, uses, or maintains a privy or
cesspool, sinkhole or septic tank on any property accessible to the sewer
system, or otherwise erects, constructs, uses or maintains any pipe, conduit,
drain or other facility for the discharge of sanitary sewage in violation of
this subchapter, shall be deemed and shall be declared to be erecting,
constructing or maintaining a nuisance, which nuisance the borough is hereby
authorized and directed to abate in the manner provided by law.
   (C)   No privy, vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
shall be used or maintained at any time upon any improved property which has
been connected to a sewer, which shall be required under §
52.31(A) to be connected to a sewer. Every such privy, vault, cesspool,
sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle in existence shall be abandoned,
and shall be cleansed and filled at the expense of the owner of such improved
property, and any such privy, vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle not so abandoned, cleansed and filled, shall constitute a nuisance,
and such nuisance may be abated as provided by law, at the expense of the owner
of such improved property.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 CONNECTIONS GENERALLY.
   No connection shall be made to the sewer system, except in compliance with
the ordinances and resolutions, as well as such rules and regulations may, from
time to time, be enacted, adopted, approved, or promulgated by the borough or
the authority.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE.
   No person shall discharge or permit to be discharged within this borough any
sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in violation of the rules and regulations
regarding prohibitive waste, except where suitable treatment has been provided
which is satisfactory to the authority.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   After the expiration of the particular period specified in §
52.31, if any owner of any occupied building on property in the borough
accessible to the sewer system shall have failed to connect such property with
the sewer system as required by § §
52.31, or if after connection any owner of any occupied building on property in
the borough shall fail to pay all charges imposed by the borough or authority
for service resulting in an interruption of that service accessible to the
sewer system shall have failed, the borough shall cause to be served on the
owner of such property so failing to connect or maintain connection to said
sewer system, and also upon the occupants of the building in question, a copy
of this subchapter, and a written or printed notice requiring such connection
to be made, and such notice shall further state that its requirements shall be
complied with within 30 days from the date thereof.
(Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §§
52.01 through
52.16 shall be liable, upon conviction for a first violation and for each
subsequent violation, to a fine of $300, together with costs of prosecution in
each case. Each day that a violation shall continue shall be deemed and shall
be taken to be a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   Fines and costs imposed under provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.16 shall be enforceable and recoverable in the manner at the time provided
by applicable law.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.35 are declared to be for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the borough, and persons violating any provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.35, upon conviction before any district justice of the county, shall be
fined $300 and costs. Each 90-day period during which such violation of such
provisions shall continue, shall be deemed to be a separate offense. Each
occupied building, as herein before defined, whether or not the owners thereof
shall be permitted to connect two or more occupied buildings or units by a
single common connection to a lateral of the sewer system, or shall be required
to make separate connections for each occupied building or unit, shall
constitute a separate or distinct unit under the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.35 and the persons owning occupied buildings consisting of multiple units
contained in the same structure who violate any of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.35 shall be subject to the aforesaid fine for each and every one of such
occupied buildings or units which are in violation of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.35.
   (D)   Any occupied building in the borough with an active sewer connection
shall be deemed unfit for human habitation and the borough may take steps as
are legally necessary to either declare the property to be a public nuisance or
to designate such property as unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 1-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 2-159-1993, passed 9-7-1993)
CHAPTER 53: PRETREATMENT PROGRAM;
POLICY, RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Administration
   
53.003   Abbreviations
   
53.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
53.015   General prohibitions and standards
   
53.016   Specific prohibitions
   
53.017   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.018   Modification of national categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.019   Control authority’s right of revision
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Local limits
   
53.022   Accidental discharges
   
53.023   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
53.024   Hauled wastewater
   
53.025   Best management practices (BMPs)
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
53.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
53.041   Additional pretreatment measures
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
53.055   Wastewater discharges
   
53.056   Wastewater analysis
   
53.057   Permit requirement
   
53.058   Existing connections
   
53.059   New connections
   
53.060   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
53.061   Application signatories and certification
   
53.062   Decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit; Issuance Process
   
53.075   Duration
   
53.076   Contents
   
53.077   Appeals
   
53.078   Modification
   
53.079   Transfer
   
53.080   Revocation
   
53.081   Reissuance
   
53.082   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
   
53.083   Permit fees
Reporting Requirements
   
53.095   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.096   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.097   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
53.098   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.099   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.100   Reports of potential problems
   
53.101   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.102   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.103   Analytical requirements
   
53.104   Sample collection
   
53.105   Timing
   
53.106   Record keeping
   
53.107   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
Compliance Monitoring
   
53.120   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
53.121   Monitoring fees
   
53.122   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
53.135   Confidential information
Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
   
53.150   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
53.165   Notification of violation
   
53.166   Consent orders
   
53.167   Show cause hearing
   
53.168   Compliance orders
   
53.169   Cease and desist orders
   
53.170   Administrative fines
   
53.171   Administrative appeal procedure; Hearing Board
   
53.172   Emergency suspensions
   
53.173   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
53.185   Injunctive relief
   
53.186   Criminal prosecution
   
53.187   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
53.200   Falsifying information
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
53.215   Upset
   
53.216   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.217   Bypass
Member Municipality Approval and Consent
   
53.230   Approval and consent
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewer tapping, see
Ch. 56
   Wastewater, see
Ch. 55
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works of the Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority and enables the
control authority to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works which will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere, or otherwise be
incompatible with the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater, sludge and incinerator waste, in the course of their
employment and the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater from the
publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the control authority to comply with its national
pollutant discharge elimination system permit conditions, incinerator discharge
and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the
publicly owned treatment works is subject.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter provides for the regulation of all users of the publicly
owned treatment works through the issuance of wastewater discharge permits and
through enforcement of general requirements applicable to all users; authorizes
monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative
review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of
fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program
established herein.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all persons outside the jurisdiction of
the control authority who are, by contract or agreement with the control
authority, users of the publicly owned treatment works of the control
authority. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator of the control authority shall administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may be delegated by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator to other control authority personnel.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations and acronyms, when used in this chapter, shall
have the designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
PaDEP  Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATOR or THE ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the appropriate Regional Administrator in an non-NPDES
state or NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility, a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the control authority.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) or MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Schedules of
activities, prohibition of practices, maintenance procedures and other
management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in §§
53.015 and
53.016 of the EAJSA rules and regulations. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C expressed as a concentration (mg/l), in accordance with
EPA Test Method 405.1, as referenced in 40 C.F.R. § 136.3.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD(S) or CATEGORICAL STANDARD(S). National
categorical pretreatment standards, being any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which
appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter which is susceptible to conversion to
carbon dioxide and water and expressed as a concentration (milligrams per liter
(mg/l)), in accordance with EPA Test Method 410.1, 410.2, 410.3 or 410.4, as
referenced in 40 C.F.R. § 136.3.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the commonwealth.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency, including the
Regional Water Management Division Director.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by the EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1317).
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is normally taken from a wastestream, on a one-
time basis, without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes. When industrial wastewater volume is not
sufficient for analytical purposes in 15-minute periods, the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator may approve, in writing, an alternative of sampling.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump trucks.
   IMMEDIATELY. This term is based on the intent which it is used within.
However, it shall at least indicate a time frame of “upon discovery” of
incident, or as stated in 40 C.F.R. § 122.41(I)(6), 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)
(B), 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(v)(A), 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(v)(B), 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(2)(v)(C), 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 (f)(2)(v)(D) and/or as specifically
identified within this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR. The person designated by the control
authority to supervise the operation of the pretreatment program, and who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly
authorized representative as delegated by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE. The discharge or introduction of pollutants
(including holding tank waste), into the POTW, from any nondomestic source
regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge, from an
establishment, which discharges or introduces industrial wastes into the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE(S). Any liquid, gaseous, radioactive, solid or other
substances, not sewage, resulting from any manufacturing or industry, or from
establishment, as herein defined, and mine drainage, refuse, silt, coal mines,
coal collieries, breakers or other coal processing operation.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the
industrial waste flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, entices the inhibition or disruption of the
POTW’s treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or
disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the control authority’s
NPDES permit (including an increase in magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or
any more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1345); the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.);
any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et
seq.); the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.); the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.); and the Marine Protection, Research
and Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.)
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD(S). See CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD(S) or CATEGORICAL STANDARD(S).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5 (33 U.S.C. § 1317).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued to a POTW pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards pursuant to § 307(c)
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (1) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing
process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program including:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NONSIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. For the purposes of this chapter, are those
users, which do not meet the criteria listed in the definition for SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER, but warrant the issuance of a wastewater discharge permit.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the control authority’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in moles per liter of solution. A measure of the
acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water, such that harm to
human health or the environment may result.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; by
process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the
pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a categorical pretreatment
standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §§
53.015 and
53.016.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A “treatment works,” as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned and/or leased by the control
authority. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a POTW
treatment plant.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS PENALTY LAW or POTW ACT. As defined by Act 9
of 1992, 35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which is designed to provide
treatment including recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any noncommercial, non-industrial and non-manufacturing
facility or dwelling.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. The control authority’s collection and conveyance system
which transports wastewater to POTW treatment plant.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, cooling, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the control
authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any pollutant released in a discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which will cause a violation of the specific discharge
prohibitions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) and/or any discharge of non-routine
nature, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, accidental spills or
non-customary batch discharges, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the authority’s
regulations, prohibited discharge standards in this chapter, local limits or
NPDES permit conditions.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering, in accordance with EPA Test Method 160.1, as
referenced in 40 C.F.R. § 136.3.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. See INDUSTRIAL USER or USER.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state of any portion thereof.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.015 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   No user shall contribute, introduce, or cause to be contributed or
introduced, directly or indirectly, into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater
which causes pass through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of the POTW whether or not the user is subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.016 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 11.0 or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than three inches in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 104°F (40°C) being
discharged into the sewage system, unless prior written approval is obtained
from the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, or which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the POTW
treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through, but in no
case shall exceed a total oil and grease value of 300 mg/l or a total petroleum
value of 100 mg/l;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator in accordance with §
53.024;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewage system for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with this chapter and applicable state or federal regulations;
      (11)    Wastewater containing true color from any source and of any hue
greater than that of a 500 color unit platinum-cobalt stock standard, as
determined by a USEPA approved analytical method. Any wastewater with
sufficient color which is not removed in the POTW treatment process and causes
the plant effluent to have a true color in excess of 100 color units on the
platinum-cobalt scale, or its equivalent;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, noncontact cooling water and non-residential
swimming pool drainage, unless specifically authorized by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes including biological hazards, except as
specifically authorized by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the POTW treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW; and
      (17)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or state solid waste disposal permit, or air quality and/or receiving water
quality standards.
   (B)   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator determines that a user(s)
is contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts as to cause interference with the operation of the POTW and/or POTW
treatment plant, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW
and/or POTW treatment plant;
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user(s) to correct the
interference with the POTW and/or POTW treatment plant; and
      (3)   Proceed with enforcement pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
and
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they have a reasonable
potential to be discharged to the POTW.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 285-
2021, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 53.017 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471 are hereby incorporated into this chapter
by reference as though set forth in full.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass
limits in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator shall impose an alternate limit using the combined
wastestream formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.018 MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Where the control authority’s POTW treatment plant achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by national pretreatment standards, the control
authority may apply to the approval authority for modification of specific
limits in the national categorical pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL
shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature
of the pollutant by the POTW treatment plant to a less toxic or harmless state
in the effluent which is achieved by the POTW treatment plant in 50% of the
samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in § 403.7(b)
(2) of 40 C.F.R. part 403, General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and
New Sources of Pollution, promulgated pursuant to the Act. The control
authority may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the national
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, §
403.7(a)(2), are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.019 CONTROL AUTHORITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The control authority reserves the right to establish by resolution more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed
necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may impose mass limitations on users who
are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements,
or in other cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.021 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The following maximum weekly average pollutant limits are established
to protect against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge on
a weekly average wastewater containing in excess of the following:
Arsenic          0.20 mg/l
Cadmium          0.12 mg/l
Chromium (total) 9.52 mg/l
Copper           2.72 mg/l
Cyanide          3.72 mg/l
Lead             1.28 mg/l
Mercury          0.07 mg/l
Molybdenum       0.11 mg/l
Nickel           0.92 mg/l
Selenium         0.07 mg/l
Silver           1.41 mg/l
Zinc             1.53 mg/l
 
   (B)   Weekly average shall mean the arithmetic mean of all 24-hour daily
results, whether composite or grab, collected in a one-week period from Sunday
through Saturday.
   (C)   At no time shall the pollutant concentration of a 24-hour composite or
grab sample exceed one and one-half times the weekly average limit listed above
for the pollutant. Should these limits be exceeded, it shall constitute a daily
violation under this chapter.
   (D)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for “total” metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may impose
mass limitations in addition to, or in place of, the concentration- based
limitations above. All test procedures shall conform to an approved analysis
method as indicated in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (E)   For the pollutants listed in the table above, where multiple grab
samples are collected during the same day, the average would be used for
determining compliance with the daily maximum limit, while compliance with the
instantaneous maximum limit would be determined based on each individual grab
sample result.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 211,
passed 8-2-2004; Ord. 252-2011, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 285-2021, passed 9-7-
2021)
§ 53.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharges of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Where facilities are provided to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials, these facilities shall be provided and maintained at the
owner or user’s own cost and expense. In the case of an accidental discharge,
it shall be the responsibility of the user, upon discovery, and after assessing
the situation and taking initial corrective action, if possible, to immediately
telephone and notify the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator of the incident.
The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, estimated
concentration and volume if known, and initial corrective actions taken by the
user.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge, all corrective measures
implemented or attempted, and measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expenses, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable resolutions
or laws.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of an accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such an accidental discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedures.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.023 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   An accidental discharge or slug control plan, as prescribed under 40
C.F.R. § 408.8(f)(2)(v), may be required.
      (1)   For all new sources/new users. Where required by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator, detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide protection from accidental discharges or slugs shall be
submitted to the authority for review, and shall be approved by the authority
before construction of the facility.
      (2)   For existing sources/new users. The Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator shall evaluate whether each new user needs an accidental discharge/
slug control plan within one year of the date on inclusion in the industrial
pretreatment program.
      (3)   For existing sources/existing users. The Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator shall evaluate whether each user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan on a routine basis.
   (B)   If an accidental discharge/slug control plan is required, the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator of any accidental or slug discharge; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures shall include, but are not limited to, inspection
and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading
and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training,
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for
emergency response.
   (C)   When an existing source is required by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator to provide and/or modify an accidental discharge/slug control plan,
the user shall provide the plan within 60 days of notification. Should the plan
require construction or implementation of measures to meet compliance, the plan
shall provide a schedule for those actions. After initial review, should
additional information be required to provide a complete plan, it shall be
furnished to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator within 30 days. Failure to
submit a revised plan and/or failure to provide a complete plan after the 30-
day submission period may render the wastewater discharge permit void.
   (D)   The authority’s review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   If not specifically required by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator, the information, requirements and the like, called for in a plan
are not waived by the authority and the user shall, in their own and sole
judgment provide all necessary items, procedures and the like, to prevent any
accidental discharge and/or slug discharge to the POTW.
   (F)   All users are required to notify the authority immediately of any
changes at their facilities affecting the potential for an accidental discharge
and/or slug discharge to the POTW.
   (G)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may allow a DEP approved
pollution prevention control plan to substitute for all or a portion of the
accidental discharge/slug control plan requirements.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   The control authority prohibits the discharge of any and all hauled waste
into the POTW or sewer system unless by written agreement with the control
authority.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.025 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).
   The authority, at its sole discretion, may develop BMPs. Such BMPs shall be
considered local limits and pretreatment standards for the purposes of 40
C.F.R. part 403 and § 307(d) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(d)). The
authority, also at its sole discretion, may allow a user to implement BMPs to
meet the prohibitions listed in §§
53.015 and
53.016 of the EAJSA rules and regulations.
(Ord. 233-2008, passed 3-3-2008)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 53.040 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §§
53.015 and
53.016 within the time limitations specified by the agency issuing the
standards. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator for review, and shall be acceptable to the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator before such facilities are constructed. The control authority’s
review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of additional or future modifications of such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the control
authority under the provisions of this chapter.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.041 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may
require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only at specific points of the sewage
system, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage
wastestreams from industrial wastestreams and/or such other conditions as may
be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user’s compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require any person
discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at
their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, they are necessary for the
proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil,
or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential
sources. All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator and shall be so located to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected,
cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at his or her expense.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 53.055 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge within any area under the jurisdiction of
the control authority, and/or to the POTW, any wastewater except as authorized
by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, subject to state and federal laws and regulations.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.056 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
30 days of the request unless additional time is approved, in writing, by the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.057 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator. A user permitted by the control authority may
discharge for the time period specified in the wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require other users to
obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall subject the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in this chapter.
Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.058 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
30 days after said date, apply to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator for a
wastewater discharge permit or request an extension of their wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with this chapter. The Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may issue a new or temporary wastewater discharge permit without
requiring a new application from the user. When a new wastewater discharge
permit is required by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, a complete
application shall be submitted within 90 days of written notification.
   (B)   No user shall cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
30 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator
unless a written extension of an existing wastewater discharge permit has been
requested and/or approved by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.059 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with this chapter, must be filed at
least 120 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or
recommence.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.060 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the control authority, a permit application which
incorporates the information prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require all users to
submit as part of an application the following information:
      (1)   Information described by §§
53.095 and
53.097;
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including SIC number(s) and a list of all raw materials and chemicals
used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges including 30 minute peak wastewater
flow rates and seasonally variations, if any;
      (8)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with § 304(g) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(g))
and 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (9)   Copies of all material safety data sheets;
      (10)   Information on any user-specific health and safety or chemical
awareness training required for authority personnel prior to entry into the
user’s facility; and
      (11)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit
application.
   (C)   Incomplete or inaccurate wastewater discharge permit applications will
not be processed and will be returned to the user for revision. All site plans,
floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, all other types of construction
plans, and process diagrams, which are subject to the requirements of this
chapter, shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user that is
familiar with the information and its accuracy. It is recommended that the
above information be signed and sealed by a professional engineer, who is
licensed in the commonwealth, to ensure compliance with sound engineering and
all applicable federal, state and local codes and statutes.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.061 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
   “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.062 DECISIONS.
   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by
the user and may require additional information. Within 60 days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit. The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may deny any application for a
wastewater discharge permit, which does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter or applicable federal and state laws and regulations. In the event
that a timely and complete wastewater discharge permit renewal application, in
the sole discretion of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, has been
submitted and the permit cannot be reissued, through no fault of the user,
before the expiration date, the terms and conditions of the existing permit
will be automatically continued and will remain fully effective and enforceable
pending the granting or denial of the application for permit renewal.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT; ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 53.075 DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. Each wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.076 CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the control authority in accordance with §
53.079, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state and/or local law;
      (6)   User data, based upon its application, where within its property,
health and safety training is required for access; and
      (7)   Notice of the control authority civil penalty assessment policy as
provided in the
Chapter 54 in this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and
federal laws, rules and regulations.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.077 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person, including the user, may petition the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge
permit within 30 days of notice of its issuance.
   (B)   The appeal request in addition to the information required in the
chapter shall provide the name, address and telephone number of the appellant
as well the date that the control authority and/or Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator took the action which is the subject matter of the appeal.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party shall indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   The conditions of the current wastewater discharge permit shall
remain in effect pending the appeal of the new wastewater discharge permit.
      (4)   If the Pretreatment Coordinator fails to act within 30 days, a
request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to
reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the court of common pleas of the county within 30 days of the
final administrative wastewater discharge permit decision.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.078 MODIFICATION.
   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may modify a wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   To reflect a change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the control authority’s POTW, control authority personnel or the receiving
waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.079 TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the control authority. Any succeeding
owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing
permit, as well as any additional terms or conditions which may be required as
a result of the proposed transfer.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 90 days’ advance written notice
to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator and the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator must include a written certification by
the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer shall render the
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.080 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may, in accordance with this
chapter and
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances, revoke a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator of
significant changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator of changed conditions pursuant to §
53.099;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator timely
access to the facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations for a period exceeding six months or transfer of business ownership.
All wastewater discharge permits issued to a particular user are void upon the
issuance of the new wastewater discharge permit to that user or final
administrative wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
53.077.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.081 REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
53.060, a minimum of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit. It is the responsibility of the user to request a
wastewater discharge permit application form no less the 150 days prior to the
expiration of the existing wastewater discharge permit. The application form
shall include calibration reports on the required flow monitoring devices used
during the term of the prior wastewater discharge permit.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.082 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality
outside of the jurisdiction of the control authority, contributes wastewater to
the POTW, the control authority shall enter into a binding agreement with the
contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall request the following information
from the contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator
may deem necessary.
   (C)   A binding agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall contain
the following conditions:
      (1)   (a)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a
sewer use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter,
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances, a surcharge resolution and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
53.021; and
         (b)   The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits
must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the control authority’s
chapter or local limits.
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator with access to all information that the
contributing municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator access
to the facilities of users located within the contributing municipality’s
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other
duties deemed necessary by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the binding agreement, and authorizing the control authority to take legal
action to enforce the terms of the contributing municipality’s regulations or
impose and enforce pretreatment standards.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.083 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   New permits. Each new user shall be assessed a fee for their initial
permit(s). The amount shall be adjusted, where required, on an annual basis by
the control authority through its user rate resolution.
   (B)   Renewal permits. Each user shall be assessed a fee each time their
permit(s) is renewed. The amount shall be adjusted, where required, on an
annual basis by the control authority through its user rate resolution.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.095 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Within 180 days after either the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing users
currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. Where a user is not an existing categorical user,
the user may request in writing to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator that
the provisions of division (B) below be waived.
      (2)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new
sources and sources that become users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical standard shall submit to the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and Standard Industrial Classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description shall include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e). Required flow measuring
devices shall be approved by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator prior to
installation. The flow measuring device(s) shall be compatible with the process
involved and shall be accurate. The flow measuring device(s) shall be
calibrated at least semi-annually, which calibration reports shall be included
as part of the wastewater discharge permit application form;
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with
procedures set out in §
53.103;
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.104; and
         (d)   Any and all information and data necessary to demonstrate
compliance with BMPs.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion dare
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.096; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.061.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.096 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.095(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments (milestones) in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date of compliance including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of process, including the overall completion date, the
reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to
return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.097 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator a report containing the information described in §
53.095(B)(4) through (B)(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.061.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.098 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   The control authority may elect to handle all requirements of this section,
and when so elected by the control authority, it shall be specified in the
wastewater discharge permit issued to the user.
   (A)   All significant and non-significant users shall at a frequency
determined by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, but in no case less than
semiannually for significant industrial users and annual for nonsignificant
industrial users, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and/or
contained in a valid wastewater discharge permit and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily wastewater flows for the reporting period.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in §§
53.095, 53.103 and 53.104, the results of this monitoring shall be included in
the report.
   (D)   If a user must implement a BMP to comply with federal pretreatment
standards or requirements or any other condition of this chapter, the user
shall submit any and all documentation necessary to demonstrate compliance with
the BMP as well as any other information required by the authority to the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator at the frequency specified by the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator to evaluate compliance. The authority may
also require any user to submit any information or data at any frequency it
deems necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 197,
passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 233-2008, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.099 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator of any planned
significant changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change
occurs.
   (A)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to submit
such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.060.
   (B)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may issue a wastewater
discharge permit under §
53.062 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
53.078 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, average flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of
any previously unreported pollutants at levels that may cause pass through or
interference or otherwise violate the provisions of this chapter.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.100 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges that violate the prohibitions of §
53.016 or any discharge that could cause potential problems for the POTW, the
user upon discovery and after assessing the situation and taking initial
corrective action, shall immediately telephone and notify the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and initial corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five business days following such discharge, the user shall
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken and/or have been implemented by the user to prevent
similar future occurrence. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other
liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter or other applicable
resolutions or laws.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.101 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit may be
required to provide appropriate reports to the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator as the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall require.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.102 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by the user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator within 24 hours of becoming
aware of the violation. The user shall repeat the sampling within 96 hours and
shall submit the analytical results to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator
within 30 days of becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   Where the user believes the first reported result(s) indicating a
violation(s) may be in error, the user may submit additional data to support
its position with the repeat sampling results.
   (C)   Where the user believes its facility continues in violation of its
wastewater discharge permit, the user shall notify the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator, and the 96 hours repeat sampling requirement of this section may
commence at the point the user believes its facility has returned to
compliance, provided that the results of the repeat sampling are submitted
within 30 days of becoming aware of the violation.
   (D)   The user is not required to resample if the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator monitors at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.103 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or periodic compliance
report, shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40
C.F.R. part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the Administrator.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.104 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible or not warranted in the
opinion of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of
four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged or frequency of grab
samples acceptable to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. Alternate grab
sampling procedures shall be approved by the approval authority. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge
limits.
   (B)   When required by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, a user and/
or industrial waste discharger shall install a control monitoring manhole
together with such metering and other appurtenances, that shall be suitable to
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the discharge. The control manhole and
all appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance to plans approved by the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. These facilities shall be installed by the
user, at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by the user including
accessibility and safety.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques as outlined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(5)(iii) or as indicated in
division (A) above.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.105 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.106 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall maintain,
and make available for inspection and copying by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator, all records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring
activities required by this chapter, any additional records of information
obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent
of such requirements and records associated with implementation of BMPs.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses and any other information or data deemed
necessary by the authority. These records shall remain available for a period
of at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the authority, or where the
user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 53.107 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division (A) need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under §
53.099. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
53.095, 53.097 and 53.098.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA (33 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq.) identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or
listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste
Division Director and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of
such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 53.120 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator and the control authority’s
sampling technicians shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, at any time or
frequency deemed necessary by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. (For
purposes of §§
53.120 through
53.122, the term INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR shall mean and include the
control authority’s Pretreatment Coordinator, its sampling technicians and any
other personnel and/or consultants designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator.)
   (B)   Users shall allow the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator ready access
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties required
under this chapter. A user shall not obstruct, block or otherwise interfere
with access to the sampling point(s).
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
      (2)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall have the right to set
up on the user’s property, or require installation of such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. This sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its own expense. These devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated at least semi-annually to
ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written request of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator and
shall not be replaced without approval of the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delay in allowing the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.121 MONITORING FEES.
   (A)   Sample collection fees. Each user shall be assessed a fee by the
control authority for the collection and analysis of sample(s) taken from the
user’s building sewer or discharge(s) as required under §
53.098. The amount shall be adjusted, where required, on an annual basis by the
control authority through its user rate resolution.
   (B)   Resampling fees. Each user shall be assessed a resampling fee by the
control authority for the collection and analysis of additional sample(s) taken
from the user’s building sewer or discharge(s). The amount shall be adjusted,
where required, on an annual basis by the control authority through its user
rate resolution.
   (C)   Annual facility inspection fees. Each user shall be assessed a fee by
the control authority for the EPA required inspection of the user’s facility
(s). The amount shall be adjusted, where required, on an annual basis by the
control authority through its user rate resolution.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.122 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator has been refused any records or
access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof or if the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator believes that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine or specific inspection and sampling program
of the control authority designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may seek issuance of a search warrant from the appropriate judicial
authority.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 53.135 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data pertaining to a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit application forms, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator’s
inspection and sampling activities, shall be available to the public without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When demonstrated by the user that such information should be held
confidential and upon written request of the user, those portions of the
information which disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. When any such information shall be furnished to a
governmental agency, it shall be clearly identified as confidential information
and shall be segregated from any non-confidential information. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be
available to the public without restriction.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 53.150 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall publish annually, in a
newspaper of general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within
the jurisdiction served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the
previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3
(1);
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable criterion (1.4
for BOD, CLOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator determines has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the health of
authority personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public health and welfare or to the environment, or has resulted in the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator’s exercise of his or her emergency
authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment-standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include violation of best
management practices, which the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 53.165 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may serve upon that user a
written notice of violation under the provisions of the
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances. Within 30 days of the receipt of this
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator. Submission
of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this
section shall limit the authority of the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator to
take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.166 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The control authority may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
53.168 and
53.169.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.167 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may order a user which has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator and show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.168 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, wastewater service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewage system.
A compliance schedule contained in any compliance order shall not be construed
as an extension of the deadline for compliance established for any pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.169 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the user directing it
to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.170 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may fine such user in
an amount not to exceed the amount set forth in the
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances or assess a civil penalty pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter for each violation regardless of jurisdictional
boundaries. Such fines and/or penalties shall be assessed in accordance with
the terms set forth in the
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances. In the case of weekly, monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines and civil penalties shall be assessed
for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   A lien against the user’s property will be sought and other
enforcement collection action may be taken for unpaid charges, fines and
penalties.
   (C)   (1)   Users desiring to dispute such fines and/or civil penalties
shall file a written request for the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator to
reconsider the fine/penalty along with the full payment of the fine/penalty
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine and/or penalty.
      (2)   Where a request has merit, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator
may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the appeal is successful, the
payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the
user.
      (3)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders to the
fine/penalty when the fine and/or penalty or a portion of same, is
substantiated.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.171 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL PROCEDURE; HEARING BOARD.
   The following rules shall apply to all appeals of all notices of violation,
fines and civil penalties issued under the control authority’s civil penalty
assessment policy and/or adjudication’s of the control authority:
   (A)   All appeals must be perfected by:
      (1)   Filing a notice of appeal, in writing, with the Pretreatment
Coordinator (Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority, 50-A South Delaware Drive,
Easton, Pennsylvania 18042) within 30 days from the date of:
         (a)   Notice of administrative order;
         (b)   Notice of violation fines and civil penalty; or
         (c)   Adjudication, as the case may be.
      (2)   Forwarding to the control authority with the notice of appeal the
amount of fine or civil penalty initially assessed by the control authority for
placement in the control authority interest-bearing escrow account with any
commonwealth bank, pending the outcome of the appeal. All interest earned shall
go to the prevailing party.
   (B)   Failure to perfect an appeal within the applicable time period shall
result in a waiver of all legal rights to contest any violation or
administrative order, the amount of any penalty or any adjudication by the
control authority.
   (C)   In appeals involving the assessment of a fine or civil penalty, the
notice of appeal must specify whether the issue appealed is the amount of the
fine and/or penalty or the fact of violation, or both. Failure to specify an
issue of appeal waives all legal rights to contest that issue on appeal.
   (D)   All appeals will be heard pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
control authority and the rules of evidence and procedure applicable under the
Local Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 and 751.
   (E)   All appeals will be heard by a hearing board consisting of three
control authority Board members designated by the control authority
Chairperson.
   (F)   Appeal panels may be appointed by the control authority Chairperson as
standing panels, or on a case-by-case basis, as determined from time to time,
in the sole discretion of the control authority Chairperson. The control
authority Chairperson may also designate an alternate member for any standing
panel or case hearing panel.
   (G)   Hearings shall be scheduled to commence within 30 days from the date
an appeal is perfected.
   (H)   With regard to each appeal to be heard by a Hearing Board, the control
authority shall publish a public notice of hearing pursuant to the requirements
of the Sunshine Law, 65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et seq., and all hearings shall be open
to the public. The hearing panel may deliberate in private session but must
vote upon the appeal and render a written decision and adjudication in public
session.
   (I)   Industrial users may further appeal an adjudication of the hearing
board to the court of common pleas of the county, as provided by law.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.172 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears
to present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. IMMEDIATELY in this section means within a 24-hour time
period as prescribed by the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
   (B)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may also immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond within 48 hours after
notification, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or
which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the connection to the sewage system, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream or endangerment to
any individuals.
         (b)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the user to
recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
53.173 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator prior
to the date of any show cause or termination hearing under §§
53.167 or
53.173.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.173 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
53.080, any user who violates the following conditions may be subject to
discharge termination in accordance with terms of this chapter or the
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
53.015 through
53.025.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
53.167 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 53.185 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator on behalf of the control
authority, may petition the court of common pleas of the county, through the
control authority’s attorney for appropriate legal and equitable relief,
including the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate,
which restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit requirements, order or other requirement imposed by this chapter on
activities of the user. Relief requested may also include requirements for
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.186 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this chapter,
a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who willfully or
negligently introduces any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury
or property damage, or any user who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed, or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this chapter or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter, may be subject to criminal prosecution
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code,
18 P.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.187 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   (1)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive.
      (2)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may take any, all or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will be in accordance with
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances. However, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
   (B)   Where the
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances does not provide guidelines on
enforcement action for a specific instance of noncompliance, the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator may impose other appropriate enforcement action to
address the noncompliance.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 53.200 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be prosecuted in
accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code pertaining to
perjury and falsification in official matters pursuant to 18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4901
et seq.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
53.999
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 53.215 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C), below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   (a)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
upset.
         (b)   If this information is provided orally, a written submission
must be provided within five days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   (1)   Users shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided.
      (2)   This requirement applies in the situation where, among other
things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost
or fails.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.216 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it alleging a violation of the general prohibitions in §
53.015 or the specific prohibitions in §
53.016 except §
53.016(A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(8), if it can demonstrate that it did not know, or
have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the control
authority was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.217 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator, at least ten
days before the date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   (a)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable
pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the
bypass.
         (b)   A written submission shall also be provided within five days of
the time the user becomes aware of the bypass.
         (c)   The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator may take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may approve an anticipated
bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in
division (D)(1) above.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
MEMBER MUNICIPALITY APPROVAL AND CONSENT
§ 53.230 APPROVAL AND CONSENT.
   Following initial approval of this pretreatment program policy, rules and
regulations (“the policy”) by the Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority member
municipalities, the control authority may amend and supplement the policy as it
deems appropriate and the initial member municipality approval shall be deemed
to be an advance consent to and approval of such further amendments and
supplements as the control authority shall deem to be appropriate.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the control
authority for a maximum civil penalty of $25,000 per violation, per day. In the
case of a weekly, monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation. Such penalty
shall be assessed in accordance with this chapter and
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may recover reasonable
attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement
activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any
actual damages incurred by the control authority.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, there shall be taken
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite fix, taking any other action against a user.
      (5)   In the event any user violation(s) results in the imposition of a
fine or other penalty on the control authority by EPA, the state or any other
agency, such violation(s) shall be punishable by a civil penalty at less equal
to the dollar amount imposed upon the control authority plus its
administrative, legal, engineering costs and expenses, but not more than
$25,000, per day, per violation.
   (B)   Civil penalties assessment policy.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of 35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq., the
publicly owned treatment works penalty law, providing for enhanced penalty
authority for publicly owned treatment works’ which are authorized to enforce
industrial pretreatment standards for industrial waste discharges, and in
addition to proceeding under any other remedy available at law or equity for
violation of pretreatment standards and/or requirements, the control authority,
as the operator of a publicly owned treatment works, may assess a civil penalty
upon an user for violation of any of the terms an provisions of the chapter.
The penalty may be assessed whether or not the violation was willful or
negligent. The civil penalty shall not exceed $25,000 per day for each
violation, regardless of jurisdictional boundaries. Each violation for each
separate day shall constitute a separate and distinct offense under this
division (B).
      (2)   As part of any notice of assessment of civil penalties issued by
the control authority to an user, there shall also be included a description of
the applicable appeals process to be followed, including the name, address and
telephone number of the person responsible for accepting such appeal, on behalf
of the control authority.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (B), a single operational upset which
leads to simultaneous violations of more than one pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be treated as a single violation as required by Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.). The control authority may,
however, recover its cost for reestablishing the operation of the POTW
treatment plant in addition to any civil penalty imposed under this division
(B).
      (4)   The civil penalty provided for in this chapter is the formal,
written civil penalty assessment policy of the control authority and shall be
publicly available. Each user participating in the pretreatment program shall
be given written notice of the policy. The penalty assessment policy shall
consider:
         (a)   Damage to air, water, land or other natural resources of the
commonwealth and their uses arising from discharge from users to the POTW;
         (b)   Cost of restoration and abatement;
         (c)   Savings resulting to the person in consequence of the violation;
         (d)   History of past violations;
         (e)   Deterrence of future violations; and
         (f)   Other relevant factors.
      (5)   Uses for penalties: all civil penalties collected pursuant to this
division (B) shall be placed by the control authority in a restricted amount
and shall only be used by the control authority and the POTW for the following
uses:
         (a)   The repair of damage and any additional maintenance needed or
any additional cost imposed as a result of the violation for which the penalty
was imposed;
         (b)   Pay any penalties imposed on the control authority or the POTW
by the federal or state government for violation of pretreatment standards;
         (c)   For the cost incurred by the control authority or POTW to
investigate and take the enforcement action that resulted in a penalty being
imposed;
         (d)   For the monitoring of discharges in the pretreatment program and
for capital improvements to the POTW treatment plant, including sewage system,
which may be required by the pretreatment program; and
         (e)   Any remaining funds may be used for capital improvements to the
POTW treatment plant, including sewage system.
      (6)   Appeal: a user assessed with a civil penalty under the terms of
this section shall have the right to appeal such action pursuant to the
administrative appeal procedure provisions of §
53.171.
      (7)   The penalty authorized in this division (B) is intended to be
concurrent and cumulative, and the provisions of this division (B) shall not
abridge or alter any right of action or remedy, now or hereafter existing in
equity, or under the common law or statutory law, criminal or civil, available
to the person, the control authority or the state.
(Res. 1998-10-18-A, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 54: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   General
   
54.02   Purpose and policy
   
54.03   Legal and technical terminology
Enforcement Response Plan
   
54.15   General
   
54.16   Enforcement evaluation
   
54.17   Formal enforcement responses
Enforcement
   
54.30   General
   
54.31   Notice of violation
   
54.32   Administrative and judicial enforcement remedies
   
54.33   Criminal prosecution
   
54.34   Termination of services
Public Notification and Reporting of Significant Noncompliance
   
54.45   Significant noncompliance
Member Municipality Approval and Consent
   
54.60   Approval and consent
   
54.99   Penalty
   
Table A: Enforcement Response Procedures
   
Table B: Administrative Fine and Civil Penalty Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 GENERAL.
   The Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority, through the industrial waste
pretreatment program, has the legal authority and obligation to monitor and
enforce each standard or regulation applicable to users. This authority is
established in Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority, as codified in
Chapter 53, and is applied to each user through a user permit. It provides for
user self-monitoring and inspections and sampling by the control authority
(Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority) to determine compliance and utilizes the
enforcement response plan to provide uniform enforcement action for
noncompliance.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   The pretreatment program regulations are set forth in
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances, of the resolutions of Easton Area Joint
Sewer Authority. This chapter enables the control authority to comply with
federal and state pretreatment regulations and requirements governing users.
   (B)   Specifically, this chapter satisfies the federal and state (NPDES)
pretreatment requirements on legal authority contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403 as
follows:
      (1)   By mandating compliance with applicable federal, state and local
pretreatment standards for users;
      (2)   By authorizing the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator to inspect
and conduct surveillance to verify the compliance status of users;
      (3)   By requiring users to submit self-monitoring reports and other
data;
      (4)   By providing power for the control authority to bring
administrative, civil or criminal actions to remedy noncompliance with
pretreatment standards;
      (5)   By giving the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator the authority to
deny or condition new or increased contributions of pollutants by users, where
such contributions do not meet applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements or where such contributions would cause the POTW to violate any of
its permits;
      (6)   By requiring users from all contributing municipalities to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit(s); and
      (7)   By empowering the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator to establish
an implementation schedule for compliance in each permit.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.03 LEGAL AND TECHNICAL TERMINOLOGY.
   (A)   Abbreviations and acronyms. The following abbreviations and acronyms,
when used in this chapter, shall have the designated meanings:
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
U.S.C. United States Code
 
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER. An enforcement document which directs a user to
undertake or to cease specified activities. Types of ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS are:
cease and desist orders; consent orders; show cause orders; and compliance
orders.
      BASELINE MONITORING REPORT. A report to be submitted at least 90 days
prior to commencement of discharge containing the following: identifying
information; environmental permits; description of operation; flow
measurements; measurements of pollutants; certification; compliance schedule;
and signatures and certification.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).
         (a)   Schedules of activities, prohibition of practices, maintenance
procedures and other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b). BMPs also include treatment requirements,
operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
         (b)   The authority, at its sole discretion, may develop BMPs. Such
BMPs shall be considered local limits and pretreatment standards for the
purposes of 40 C.F.R. part 403 and § 307(d) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §
1317(b)). The authority, also at its sole discretion, may allow a user to
implement BMPs to meet the prohibitions listed in §§
53.015 and
53.016 of this code of ordinances.
         (c)   Noncompliance with BMPs shall be considered exceedances of
permit limits and enforcement will be implemented in accordance with the steps
shown for discharge limit violations in the Table A: Enforcement Response
Procedures.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency, including the
Regional Water Management Division Director.
      INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR. The person designated by the control
authority to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly authorized
representative, delegated by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants
(including holding tank waste), into the POTW, from any nondomestic source
regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge, from an
establishment, which discharges or introduces industrial wastes into the POTW.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE(S). Any liquid, gaseous, radioactive, solid or other
substances, not sewage, resulting from any manufacturing or industry, or from
establishment as herein defined, and mine drainage, refuse, silt, coal mines,
coal collieries, breakers or other coal processing operation.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, causes the inhibition or disruption of the
POTW’s treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or
disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the control authority’s
NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits
issued thereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345); the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.); any state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.); the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.); the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.); and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33
U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.)
      ISOLATED. Single incident that shall be followed by 12 consecutive months
of compliance for the same parameter or requirement.
      NOTIFICATION. Depending on the situation, generally, the submission of
information in response to event or request to characterize nature of event,
condition, identification and/or estimation of information, as required by this
chapter.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the control authority’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water, such that harm to
human health or the environment results.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil; solid waste; incinerator residue; filter
backwash; sewage; garbage; sewage sludge; munitions; medical wastes; chemical
wastes; biological materials; radioactive materials; heat; wrecked or discarded
equipment; rock; sand; cellar dirt; municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes; and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes;
process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the
pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
      PUBLIC NOTIFICATION. The annual publishing, in the largest daily
newspaper published in the service area in which the POTW is located, of all
violators who have been determined to be in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment requirements, during the previous 12 months.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
§ 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the control authority.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of
a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a POTW treatment
plant.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS PENALTY LAW or POTW ACT. As defined by Act
9 of 1992, 35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq.
      SELF MONITORING REPORT or SMR. The user’s compliance report as mandated
by the user’s permit and/or the control authority’s rules and requirements that
are submitted on schedule, cover the proper time period, include all
information required, and are properly signed. The report shall include the
parameters required, the number of measurements for each parameter, sampling
procedures, the discharge concentration and completeness of other information
required.
      SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   1.   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
            2.   A user that:
               a.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, cooling, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
               b.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
               c.   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis
that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
         (b)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division
(a)2. above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the
control authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a
petition received from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). An industrial user or user is in
significant noncompliance if its violation meets one or more of the specific
criteria set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(viii). For purposes of this
definition, a user is in SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE if its violations meets one
or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-
month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3
(l);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable criterion (1.4
for BOD, CBOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the Pretreatment Coordinator
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of borough
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent
endangerment to the public health and welfare or to the environment, or has
resulted in the Pretreatment Coordinator’s exercise of his or her emergency
authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         (h)   Any other violation(s), which may include violation of best
management practices, which the Pretreatment Coordinator determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
      SLUG DISCHARGE. Any pollutant released in a discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which will cause a violation of the specific discharge
prohibitions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) and/or any discharge of non-routine
nature, episodic nature, including. but not limited to, accidental spills or
non-customary batch discharges, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the authority’s
regulations, prohibited discharge standards in the rules and regulations, local
limits or NPDES permit conditions.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. See INDUSTRIAL USER or USER.
      VIOLATION. An instance of noncompliance with any requirement of this
chapter.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS. Any applicable local, state or federal
wastewater limit for a specific industrial classification.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state of any portion thereof.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
§ 54.15 GENERAL.
   (A)   In order to administer the control authority’s
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances, an enforcement response plan has been
developed to determine whether users are complying with pretreatment standards
and requirements of the user’s wastewater discharge permit. This plan, known as
the enforcement response plan, provides compliance screening and compliance
evaluation to determine how, when and at what level to respond to noncompliance
by users.
   (B)   To understand the enforcement response plan, one must first understand
noncompliance terminology and its administrative enforcement responsibilities.
This relationship is as follows:
      (1)   Noncompliance is the act of not meeting specified conditions or
requirements;
      (2)   A violation is an instance of noncompliance;
      (3)   The user shall notify the control authority of any and all
violations;
      (4)   All violations may require a formal enforcement response;
      (5)   The level of formal enforcement response to significant
noncompliance is determined by the magnitude of the violation and violation
history; and
      (6)   Formal enforcement responses require public notifications for
significant noncompliance.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.16 ENFORCEMENT EVALUATION.
   (A)   The determination of how and when to respond to noncompliance is
established through compliance screening, enforcement evaluation and
application of appropriate enforcement response procedures and mechanisms.
   (B)   It requires the evaluation of the user’s present compliance status and
past compliance records to determine the appropriate enforcement response.
      (1)   Compliance screening.
         (a)   This involves reviewing all available information to sort out
violations. This review assesses compliance with schedules, reporting
requirements, pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (b)   The compliance screening process verifies that the reports are
submitted on schedule, that they cover the proper time period, include all
information required, and are properly signed. Also screened are the parameters
reported, the number of measurements for each parameter, sampling procedures,
the discharge concentration and completeness of other information contained in
the self monitoring report.
         (c)   Additional compliance screening is performed by the control
authority through compliance monitoring, facility inspections and review of
self monitoring reports to assess compliance with pretreatment standards and
requirements independent of information supplied by users.
      (2)   Compliance evaluation.
         (a)   When a violation of pretreatment standards or requirements is
identified during compliance screening, it is evaluated to determine whether it
is a noncompliance, technical review criteria or significant noncompliance
violation.
         (b)   Nonsignificant violations are generally isolated violations of
pretreatment standards or requirements that do not cause interference or pass
through at the POTW, endanger the health of sewage treatment personnel or the
public or damage the environment.
         (c)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations indicate that a
problem is occurring and a review of the current pretreatment process is
warranted. This review should be used to identify any potential defects or
needed changes which may have to be implemented to correct the problem.
         (d)   Significant noncompliance (SNC) violations (as defined in §
54.03) indicate that a problem is occurring repeatedly and a solution must be
found to correct the problem. A corrective plan of action is required to
correct the problem.
         (e)   Pursuant to the definition given for SNC, the control authority
recognizes the following items as additional types of SNC violations:
            1.   When a violation continues after notifying the user to resolve
the violation within a specified time frame or the violation is of a serious
nature then it becomes a SNC violation; and
            2.   Failure to analyze listed pollutants according to an approved
EPA procedure or an alternate analytical method approved by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator. The approved analytical method must have method
detection limits (MDL) lower than set categorical or local limits, unless the
user demonstrates matrix inhibition in the wastewater to the satisfaction of
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator.
         (f)   In addition to the above compliance evaluation, the compliance
history of the violation is considered for enforcement assessment.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.17 FORMAL ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES.
   (A)   Violations and discrepancies identified during compliance screening
and compliance evaluation are reviewed to determine the type of enforcement
response needed. The control authority’s pretreatment program requires an
enforcement response plan to provide uniform enforcement responses to
pretreatment violations or discrepancies. The response guide identifies types
of responses that are appropriate, based on the nature of the violation (i.e.,
effluent-daily maximum, instantaneous maximum, weekly average or monthly
average limit; reporting late or deficient; compliance schedule beginning or
completion date); duration of the violation (i.e., single incident or
recurring); the potential impact of the violation (i.e., interference, pass
through or POTW worker safety). It also specifies the enforcement response time
frame and identifies the control authority’s personnel authorized to initiate
such an enforcement response.
   (B)   When compliance screening and compliance evaluation has been
completed, the enforcement response prescribed in the control authority’s
enforcement response plan will be applicable to the instance of noncompliance.
The prescribed responses will be implemented as follows:
      (1)   (a)   If the user is in violation of its wastewater discharge
limits, the user shall notify the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator within 24
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall repeat the sampling
within 96 hours and shall submit the analytical results in writing within 30
days of becoming aware of the violation.
         (b)   Where the user believes the first reported result(s) indicating
a violation may be in error, the user may submit additional data to support its
position with the repeat sampling results. If supported, no further action
shall be required.
         (c)   Where the repeat sampling results show a return to compliance
and no further violation is identified during the 30-day period, no further
action on the initial violation may be necessary.
         (d)   1.   Where the user believes its facility continues in violation
of its wastewater discharge permit, the user shall notify the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator, and the 96 hours repeat sampling requirement may
commence at the point the user believes its facility has returned to compliance
provided that the results of the repeat sampling are submitted within 30 days
of the discovery of the original violation.
            2.   The user shall be considered in noncompliance with
pretreatment requirements.
      (2)   If the user is in noncompliance with pretreatment standards or
requirements, the user is notified with a notice of violation.
      (3)   (a)   The notice of violation (NOV) is the first response to notify
the user of the need to comply with the control authority’s wastewater
discharge limits.
         (b)   It states the violation of the user permit, requires a plan for
implementing a corrective action, an explanation of the violation and a
response in writing with a specific time frame.
      (4)   If the violation persists, was deliberate, or the explanation of
the violation or the plan of corrective action is inadequate, and significant
noncompliance criteria is met, enforcement action may be escalated. Enforcement
includes consent orders, show cause hearings, compliance orders, cease and
desist orders and/or administrative fine(s) which may escalate to civil
penalties. There may also be emergency suspensions of sewer service,
termination of discharges, as well as judicial remedies by way of injunctive
relief civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. Supplemental enforcement
actions may include performance bonds, liability insurance and requesting that
proceeding be brought pursuant to public nuisance laws.
      (5)   If user is in violation of other control authority administration
requirements that are not listed in the definition of SNC, no further action on
the initial violation will be taken as long as the violation does not cause the
control authority to incur regulatory agency sanctions and the user complies
with an administrative order.
   (C)   All enforcement responses and civil penalties will be issued and
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter 54.
   (D)   (1)   All enforcement responses and user’s responses are recorded on a
violation summary log.
      (2)   The violation summary log catalogues the date of the enforcement
action, the date of the user’s response and provides a narrative of the
enforcement action taken as well as the user’s response.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.30 GENERAL.
   Enforcement is considered for each violation or group of violations that
meet the definition of significant noncompliance. The decision to pursue formal
action is developed on the basis of nature of violation, pattern of repetition,
user’s response to NOV and its efforts to obtain compliance. The control
authority may require a show cause hearing associated with a civil penalty if
the violations resulted in harm to the control authority personnel, facilities,
or violated any federal, state or local regulations. The first step of formal
enforcement may commence with an administrative order detailing milestones
required to comply. The administrative order shall also include all records of
violation and duration of its occurrence. All records are reviewed to assure
that proper procedures were used to collect information and that all contacts
with the user were recorded. If the user has received conflicting information
regarding its compliance status, that status is clarified in writing. A special
on-site review or inspection may be conducted to verify available data and
review analytical test results to confirm the accuracy of the information
contained in periodic reports.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.31 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   This is the first written response to a noncompliance violation of
pretreatment standards or requirements. The notice of violation may apply to
all noncompliance violations and can be accompanied by or followed by an
administrative fine, civil penalty or other administrative enforcement
remedies, judicial enforcement remedies or enforcement action.
   (B)   The notice of violation identifies the regulation violated, requests
an explanation of the noncompliance, requests a plan of corrective action to
resolve the noncompliance, requests a response within 30 days, is accompanied
by an invoice if an administrative fine is levied, identifies the date of the
show cause hearing if a hearing is requested by the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator and is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. In
addition, it indicates that continued significant noncompliance will be met
with escalating enforcement activity. Administrative fine and civil penalties
may be up to $25,000 per day for each violation as defined in Table A:
Enforcement Response Procedures and Table B: Administrative Fine and Civil
Penalty Schedule.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.32 ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Judicial enforcement remedies may include injunctive relief, civil
penalties and/or criminal prosecution. A civil suit for injunctive relief may
be initiated when the user does not execute steps necessary to achieve or
maintain compliance, when the violation is of such seriousness to warrant court
action to deter future violations or when the danger does not permit lengthy
negotiation of a settlement. If requested, the court may issue a temporary
restraining order or preliminary injunction restraining the user from violating
pretreatment standards or requirements pending the outcome of the civil action
if a harm to the POTW’s operation, its workers or receiving stream can be shown
as a result of an ongoing user violation.
   (B)   The amount of civil penalty imposed depends on the nature of
violation. Civil penalties assessment shall be in accordance with
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances. This includes consideration of damage to
air, water or land arising from user dischargers to the POTW, cost of
restoration or abatement; savings resulting from noncompliance; history of past
violations; deterrence of future violations; and any other relevant factors.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.33 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Section 309(c) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1319(c)) authorizes
the federal government to seek criminal punishment for any person who willfully
or negligently violates pretreatment standards, knowingly makes false
statements regarding any report, application, record or any other document
required by general pretreatment regulations. There may also be criminal
prosecution under applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Criminal Code. The
determination to pursue violations through criminal action will take into
consideration the willfulness of the violation, knowledge of the violation,
nature and seriousness of the offense, need for deterrence, compliance history
of the user, adequacy of the evidence and adequacy of penalties and sanctions
available through civil and administrative enforcement action.
   (B)   Examples of criminal intent include falsification of data, tampering
with results or equipment, willful or negligent failure to provide notice of
upset, slug or accidental discharge or willful violation of the user permit.
Parallel criminal and civil actions may be filed for violations when immediate
injunctive relief is necessary.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.34 TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   Through the resolutions of the control authority, the control authority
maintains the authority to halt any actual or threatened discharge of
prohibited materials that may represent an endangerment to public health, the
environment or the POTW. Additionally, the control authority can deny or
condition new or increased discharges by a user, or changes in the nature of
pollutant discharge by a user, if the discharge does not meet pretreatment
standards or causes the control authority to violate any of its permits.
Termination of service is a remedy to be used to bring users into compliance by
halting noncomplying discharges.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION AND REPORTING OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 54.45 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdiction served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   The published list of violators in significant noncompliance with
pretreatment standards and requirements shall be in accordance with §
53.150 of this code of ordinances.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 233-
2008, passed 3-3-2008)
MEMBER MUNICIPALITY APPROVAL AND CONSENT
§ 54.60 APPROVAL AND CONSENT.
   Following initial approval of this enforcement response plan (“the plan”) by
the Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority member municipalities, the control
authority may amend and supplement the plan as it deems appropriate and the
initial member municipality approval shall be deemed to be an advance consent
to and approval of such further amendments and supplements as the control
authority shall deem to be appropriate.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The administrative civil penalty or judicial civil penalty for
violation of §
54.32 may be up to $25,000 per day for each violation, pursuant to the
provisions of the publicly owned treatment works penalty law.
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
TABLE A: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROCEDURES.
Noncompliance Nature of Violation Enforcement Response
Noncompliance Nature of Violation                                                        Enforcement
                                                                                         Response
Unauthorized Discharges (No Permits)
                                                                                         - Schedule a
                                                                                         meeting
                                                                                         explaining the
                                                                                         pretreatment
                                                                                         program, how it
                                                                                         operates,
                                                                                         personnel to
                                                                                         contact and
                                                                                         request to fill
                                                                                         in an
                                                                                         application
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         - Evaluate
1.                                                                                       application and
Unpermitted   IU unaware of requirements, no harm to POTW/environment                    issue a permit
discharge                                                                                if all
                                                                                         requirements
                                                                                         are met;
                                                                                         otherwise,
                                                                                         prepare a
                                                                                         letter within
                                                                                         30 days of
                                                                                         receiving the
                                                                                         application
                                                                                         form stating
                                                                                         missing or
                                                                                         incomplete
                                                                                         information and
                                                                                         require
                                                                                         response
                                                                                         - Issue an
                                                                                         administrative
                                                                                         order (AO)
                                                                                         within 30 days
             IU did not provide complete application or revise its application within   with a
              time frame required                                                        compliance
                                                                                         schedule, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Schedule a
                                                                                         show cause
                                                                                         hearing within
                                                                                         30 days, issue
                                                                                         an AO with the
                                                                                         requirement to
                                                                                         cease harmful
                                                                                         discharge and a
                                                                                         compliance
             IU unaware of requirement, harm to the POTW                                schedule, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (B)
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (III)
                                                                                         - Compliance
                                                                                         schedule will
                                                                                         include
                                                                                         completing the
                                                                                         application
                                                                                         form
                                                                                         - Terminate
                                                                                         service
                                                                                         immediately,
                                                                                         prepare for a
             IU did not cooperate and continues to cause harm to the POTW               civil action
                                                                                         within 90 days,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (E), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (IV)
                                                                                         - Issue an AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         with compliance
              IU aware of requirement, with no harm                                      schedule, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         with the
                                                                                         requirement to
                                                                                         cease harmful
                                                                                         discharge and a
2. Non-                                                                                  compliance
permitted                                                                                schedule -
discharge                                                                                Sample weekly
(failure to                                                                              through a 90
renew)                                                                                   day period
              IU aware of requirement, with harm                                         - Request a
                                                                                         complete
                                                                                         application
                                                                                         within 30 days.
                                                                                         If application
                                                                                         is not received
                                                                                         within 30 days,
                                                                                         IU is
                                                                                         considered in
                                                                                         SNC, and/or a
                                                                                         fine (C), and/
                                                                                         or civil
                                                                                         penalty (III)
                                                                                         - If IU fails
                                                                                         to submit
                                                                                         properly
                                                                                         completed or
                                                                                         revised
                                                                                         application
                                                                                         form within 90
                                                                                       days, cease
                                                                                         temporary
                                                                                         permit(s) and
                                                                                         terminate
                                                                                         services, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (E),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (IV)
Discharge Limit Violation
                                                                                         - Request a
                                                                                         written
                                                                                         justification
                                                                                         for exceedance
1. Exceedance                                                                            of limits and
of local or                                                                              resampling
federal                                                                                  within 30 days
limits        Isolated, not significant                                                  - Issue NOV
(permit                                                                                  within 60 days
limit)                                                                                   of initial
                                                                                         detection of
                                                                                         apparent
                                                                                         violation and/
                                                                                         or fine (D), if
                                                                                         confirmed
                                                                                         - Request a
                                                                                         written
                                                                                         justification
                                                                                         for exceedance
                                                                                         of limits and
                                                                                         resampling
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         - Issue NOV if
                                                                                         resampling
                                                                                         indicates
                                                                                         continued
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of confirmation
                                                                                         of violation
                                                                                         - Issue
                                                                                         compliance
                                                                                         order within 90
                                                                                         days of
             Isolated, significant, exceeds the limits by TRC of an individual effluent detecting
              limit, no harm                                                             initial
                                                                                         violation, a
                                                                                         written
                                                                                         justification
                                                                                         and presenting
                                                                                         measures for
                                                                                         preventing this
                                                                                         incident from
                                                                                         occurring;
                                                                                         formulate
                                                                                         compliance
                                                                                         order to
                                                                                         identify
                                                                                         procedure for
                                                                                         addressing
                                                                                         significant
                                                                                         violation, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (D),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Issue an AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of detecting
                                                                                         initial
                                                                                         violation that
                                                                                         requires
                                                                                         ceasing the
                                                                                         harmful
                                                                                         discharge and
                                                                                         request
                                                                                         response within
             Isolated, harm to POTW/environment                                         30 days, show
                                                                                         cause hearing,
                                                                                         compliance
                                                                                         order and/or a
                                                                                         fine (D), and/
                                                                                         or civil
                                                                                         penalty (III),
                                                                                         and/or criminal
                                                                                         investigation,
                                                                                         and/or
                                                                                         termination of
                                                                                         service
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days,
             Recurring (continuing, frequent and/or multi-violation or SNC), no harm to and/or a fine
              POTW/environment                                                           (D), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (IV)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days,
                                                                                         show cause
                                                                                         hearing, and/or
                                                                                         a fine (D),
                                                                                         and/or civil
             Recurring (continuing, frequent and/or multi-violation), significant which penalty (IV),
              constitutes SNC or chronic, harmful to POTW/environment                    and/or civil
                                                                                         litigation,
                                                                                         and/or criminal
                                                                                         investigation,
                                                                                         and/or
                                                                                         termination of
                                                                                         service
Reporting Violation
                                                                                         - Request
1. Reporting                                                                             complete
violation     Report is improperly signed or certified                                   information to
                                                                                         be forwarded
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of detecting
                                                                                         initial
                                                                                         violation (if
             Report is improperly signed or certified after notice by POTW              not signed or
                                                                                         certified
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of
                                                                                         notification),
                                                                                         and/or fine (F)
                                                                                         - Request
                                                                                         violation be
                                                                                         corrected
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
             Isolated, single incident, no report                                       within 60 days
                                                                                         from detecting
                                                                                         violation if
                                                                                         not corrected
                                                                                         *, and/or a
                                                                                         fine (F)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of initial NOV
             Significant (recurring), no reports                                        date, and/or a
                                                                                         fine (A), and
                                                                                         for civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Issue AO with
                                                                                         show cause
                                                                                         hearing within
                                                                                         60 days of
                                                                                         initial date of
                                                                                         AO
                                                                                         - Where
                                                                                         violation
             Reports are always late or no report at all                                persists after
                                                                                         90 days from
                                                                                         show cause
                                                                                         hearing, a fine
                                                                                         (B), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (I), and/or
                                                                                         terminate
                                                                                         service
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 30 days,
                                                                                         request written
                                                                                         justification
                                                                                         for failure to
             Failure to report spill or changed discharge, no harm                      report; AO for
                                                                                         emergency
                                                                                         response plan,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (C), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (II)
                                                                                         -Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of detecting
                                                                                         violation, and/
              Failure to report spill or changed discharge, results in harm to POTW/     or develop
             environment                                                                emergency
                                                                                         response plan,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (E), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (IV)
                                                                                         - Issue AO with
                                                                                         a show cause
                                                                                         hearing within
                                                                                         60 days
                                                                                         - Terminate
             Repeated failure to report spills                                          services if
                                                                                         failure occurs
                                                                                         more than twice
                                                                                         a year, and/or
                                                                                         a fine (E),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (IV)
                                                                                         - Criminal
                                                                                         investigation
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of detecting
                                                                                         initial
                                                                                         violation
             Falsification                                                              - Terminate
                                                                                         services
                                                                                         immediately if
                                                                                         proved true,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (E), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (III)
                                                                                         - Request a
                                                                                         response within
                                                                                         30 days
                                                                                         justifying
                                                                                         violation
2. Failure to                                                                            - Issue NOV
monitor       Failure to monitor all pollutants as required by permit                    within 60 days
correctly                                                                                of detecting
                                                                                         initial
                                                                                         violation if
                                                                                         inadequate
                                                                                         justification
                                                                                         received
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of second
             Recurring failure to monitor                                               occurrence,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (A), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (I)
                                                                                         - Criminal
                                                                                         investigation
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of detecting
                                                                                         violation
3. Improper                                                                              - Termination
sampling      Evidence of intent                                                         of services
                                                                                         immediately if
                                                                                         proved true,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (E), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (IV)
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 30 days,
                                                                                         request
                                                                                         response with
                                                                                         timeframe for
4. Failure to                                                                            completion of
install       Delay of less than 30 days                                                 proper
monitoring                                                                               installation
equipment                                                                                - AO within 60
                                                                                         days of initial
                                                                                         violation, if
                                                                                         no response
                                                                                         received, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A)
                                                                                         - Issue
                                                                                         compliance
                                                                                         order within 30
                                                                                         days of
             Delay of 30 days or more                                                   detecting
                                                                                         violation, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (B),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
5. Compliance                                                                            within 30 days
schedules (in Missed milestone by less than 30 days or will not affect final milestone   of detecting
permit)                                                                                  violation, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A)
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 30 days
             Missed milestone by more than 30 days or will affect final milestone (good of detecting
              cause for delay)                                                           violation, SNC
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (A)
                                                                                         - Issue show
                                                                                         cause hearing
                                                                                         notice within
              Missed milestone by more than 30 days or will affect final milestone (no   30 days of
             good cause for delay)                                                      detecting
                                                                                         violation, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (B),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
Sampling, Monitoring and Reporting
                                                                                         - Request
                                                                                         missing
                                                                                         information; if
                                                                                         not received,
                                                                                         issue NOV
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of initial
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         detection
                                                                                         requiring a
1. Failure to                                                                            written
sample,                                                                                  response to be
monitor,                                                                                 submitted
report        Isolated or infrequent                                                     within 30 days
(routine                                                                                 from the date
reports, BMRs                                                                            of the NOV; if
and the like)                                                                            not received
                                                                                         within these 30
                                                                                         days, SNC, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 90 days
                                                                                         if no response
                                                                                         received within
                                                                                         60 days from
                                                                                         original due
                                                                                         date
                                                                                         - Notify of SNC
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of violation
                                                                                         detection, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (B),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Consider
                                                                                         issuing AO,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (C), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (I) if no
                                                                                         response is
                                                                                         received after
                                                                                         AO or after 90
2. Failure to                                                                            days from
sample,       No response to letters, does not follow through on written agreement or    original due
monitor,      frequent violation—SNC. (This circumstance is subsequent to item above.) date
report or                                                                                - Consider
notify                                                                                   terminating
                                                                                         service and
                                                                                         request
                                                                                         judicial
                                                                                         action, and/or
                                                                                         a fine (E),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (II),
                                                                                         and/or criminal
                                                                                         investigation
                                                                                         depending on
                                                                                         circumstances,
                                                                                         if no
                                                                                         acceptable
                                                                                         response after
                                                                                         120 days of
                                                                                         original due
                                                                                         date
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         after detection
                                                                                         of violation;
                                                                                         require
                                                                                         response in
                                                                                         writing with
                                                                                         reasons for
                                                                                         lack of
                                                                                         responding to
                                                                                         isolated
                                                                                         violation(s);
                                                                                         evaluate
                                                                                         response; re-
                                                                                         sample and
                                                                                         submit results,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (A), and/or
3. Failure to                                                                            civil penalty
notify of                                                                                (I); provide
effluent                                                                                 due dates in
limit         Isolated or infrequent. No known effects. (SNC - failure to report         correspondence,
violation or  noncompliance)                                                             if response is
slug                                                                                     not received
discharge                                                                                within 30 days
                                                                                         of due date,
                                                                                         SNC, issue show
                                                                                         cause hearing
                                                                                         notice; issue
                                                                                         AO within 90
                                                                                         days of due
                                                                                         date if no
                                                                                         response
                                                                                         received and/or
                                                                                         a fine (B),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - If SNC
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         occurs, notify
                                                                                         using AO within
                                                                                         60 days of
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         detection
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         of initial
                                                                                         violation
                                                                                         detection, and
                                                                                         AO shall
                                                                                         request
                                                                                         response as to
                                                                                         why
4. Failure to                                                                            notification
notify of                                                                                not made and
effluent      Frequent or continued violation (SNC - failure to accurately report        cause of
limit         noncompliance.)                                                            violation(s),
violation or                                                                             and/or a fine
slug                                                                                     (B), and/or
discharge                                                                                civil penalty
                                                                                         (II)
                                                                                         - Require up to
                                                                                         daily
                                                                                         additional
                                                                                         sampling of
                                                                                         wastewater
                                                                                         discharge, if
                                                                                         not performed,
                                                                                         a fine (B)
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         after due date,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (A), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         - Escalate to
                                                                                         AO within 90
5. Failure to                                                                            days after due
re-sample                                                                                date if no
after         Infrequent or frequent                                                     response
discovery of                                                                             received, and/
violation                                                                                or a fine (B)
                                                                                         - If frequent
                                                                                         violations
                                                                                         continue,
                                                                                         escalate to
                                                                                         show cause
                                                                                         hearing, and/or
                                                                                         a fine (C),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Notify of SNC
                                                                                         violation using
                                                                                         AO within 30
                                                                                         days of
6. Failure to                                                                            violation
notify of                                                                                detection, and/
effluent      Known environmental (i.e., pass through or interference) and/or POTW       or a fine (D),
violation or  damage results - SNC.                                                      and/or civil
slug                                                                                     penalty (IV),
discharge.                                                                               and/or criminal
                                                                                         investigation,
                                                                                         and/or
                                                                                         termination of
                                                                                         service
Violations Detected During Site Visits
                                                                                         - Issue a fine
                                                                                         (C), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (I) within 60
                                                                                         days
1. Entry      Entry denied or consent withdrawn                                          - Obtain entry
denial        Copies of records denied                                                   warrant
                                                                                         immediately and
                                                                                         return to
                                                                                         facility
                                                                                         - May terminate
                                                                                         service
                                                                                         - Request to
                                                                                         complete files
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         from inspection
                                                                                         date,
                                                                                         reschedule
2. Inadequate                                                                            inspection
record        Inspector finds incomplete or missing information (no evidence of intent)  within 90 days
keeping                                                                                  from inspection
                                                                                         date
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         of inspection
                                                                                         if not
                                                                                         corrected, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (F)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 30 days,
             Recurring                                                                  and/or a fine
                                                                                         (A), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
                                                                                         (I)
                                                                                         - Request files
                                                                                         be properly
                                                                                         organized, a
                                                                                         listing of
3. Failure to                                                                            organized files
report                                                                                   and records
required      Inspector finds additional files                                           shall be
additional                                                                               provided within
monitoring                                                                               30 days
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         if not
                                                                                         performed, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days
                                                                                         from detecting
             Recurring                                                                  additional
                                                                                         violation, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (A),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
Other Permit Violations
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
1.                                                                                       within 30 days
Wastestreams                                                                             of detecting
are diluted   Initial violation                                                          violation, and/
in lieu of                                                                               or a fine (A),
treatment                                                                                and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I)
                                                                                         - Issue an AO
                                                                                         with show cause
                                                                                         hearing within
                                                                                         60 days, and/or
             Recurring                                                                  a fine (B),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (I),
                                                                                         and/or
                                                                                         terminate
                                                                                         services
                                                                                         - Request
                                                                                         response within
                                                                                         30 days
                                                                                         - Issue NOV
2. Failure to                                                                            within 60 days
mitigate                                                                                 of detecting
noncompliance Does not result in harm                                                    violation if
or halt                                                                                  inadequate
production                                                                               response
                                                                                         received, and/
                                                                                         or a fine (C),
                                                                                         and/or civil
                                                                                         penalty (III)
                                                                                         - Issue AO
                                                                                         within 60 days,
                                                                                         and/or a fine
                                                                                         (E), and/or
                                                                                         civil penalty
             Does result in harm                                                        (IV)
                                                                                         - Proceed with
                                                                                         civil
                                                                                         litigation
                                                                                         within 30 days
                                                                                         if not fully
                                                                                         responsive
For fine and/or penalty details refer to Table B: Administrative Fine and Civil Penalty Schedule
 
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
TABLE B: ADMINISTRATIVE FINE AND CIVIL PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   The Administrative Fine and Civil Penalty Schedule establishes the specific
fine and/or penalty associated with the violations identified in
Table A of this chapter. The recommended fines and/or civil penalties for each
response action may be decreased/modified if appropriate circumstances are
found by the control authority or increased if deemed necessary by the control
authority.
Administrative Fine
             The first fine associated with each violation will be $100/day;
Schedule A   the second violation will be $200/day and will progress until it
             reaches $1,000/day; after 12 months of zero violations, a user
             shall revert to the minimum fine
             The fine associated with each violation will be $500/day for the
Schedule B   first offense; the second violation within 24 months will be
             $1,000/day
Schedule C   The fine associated with each violation will be $1,000/day
Schedule D   The fine associated with each violation will be on a per day
             basis as follows:
            No Harm                               Isolated Recurring
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $100     $200
             up to 20%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $200     $400
             up to 40%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $400     $800
             up to 60%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $600     $1,200
             up to 80%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $800     $1,600
             up to 100%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $1,000   $2,000
             up to 200%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $2,000   $4,000
             over 200%
            Harm                                  Isolated Recurring
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $1,000   $2,000
             up to 50%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $2,000   $4,000
             up to 100%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $3,000   $6,000
             up to 200%
            Exceed permit and/or federal limit by $5,000   $10,000
             over 200%
Schedule E   The fine associated with each violation will be $2,500/day
Schedule F   The fine associated with this violation will be $200/incident
Civil Penalty
Schedule I   The penalty shall be $2,500/day per violation
Schedule II  The penalty shall be $5,000/day per violation
Schedule III The penalty shall be $10,000/day per violation
Schedule IV  The penalty shall be $25,000/day per violation
Fines, Penalties and Other Cost
All fines and/or penalties shall continue until the violations are corrected
so as to be in compliance with this chapter; in addition to fines and
penalties, the control authority will seek to recover all funds expended as a
result of user’s noncompliance
Schedule I   The penalty shall be $2,500/day per violation
Schedule II  The penalty shall be $5,000/day per violation
Schedule III The penalty shall be $10,000/day per violation
Schedule IV  The penalty shall be $25,000/day per violation
Fines, Penalties and Other Cost
All fines and/or penalties shall continue until the violations are corrected
so as to be in compliance with this chapter; in addition to fines and
penalties, the control authority will seek to recover all funds expended as a
result of user’s noncompliance
 
(Res. 1998-10-18-B, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 180, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 55: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Purpose and policy
   
55.02   Administration
   
55.03   Abbreviations and acronyms
   
55.04   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
55.15   General prohibitions and standards
   
55.16   Specific prohibitions/limits
Variance Implementation Procedures
   
55.30   Implementation procedures
   
55.31   Reduced monitoring
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works of the Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority and enables the
control authority to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works which will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere, or otherwise be
incompatible with the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater, sludge and incinerator waste, in the course of their
employment and the general public; and
      (4)   To enable the control authority to comply with its national
pollutant discharge elimination system permit conditions, incinerator discharge
and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the
publicly owned treatment works is subject.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 55.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter provides for the regulation of color for all users of the
publicly owned treatment works and requires that they obtain a wastewater
discharge permit under
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all persons outside the jurisdiction of
the control authority who are, by contract or agreement with the control
authority, users of the publicly owned treatment works of the control
authority. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Industrial Pretreatment
Coordinator of the control authority shall administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon
the Industrial Pretreatment Coordinator may be delegated by the Industrial
Pretreatment Coordinator to other control authority personnel.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 55.03 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   The abbreviations and acronyms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
same designated meanings as provided in
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 55.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the terms and phrases, as
used in this chapter, shall have the same meanings designated in
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances. In addition, for the purpose of this
chapter, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLORED WASTEWATER. Wastewater containing true color from any source and of
any hue, identified by purity and luminescence determined by using the
spectrophotometric or tristimulus methods.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.15 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   No user shall contribute, introduce or cause to be contributed or
introduced, directly or indirectly, into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater
which causes pass through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of the POTW whether or not the user is subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 55.16 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS/LIMITS.
   (A)   The user shall not discharge such wastewater to the POTW without prior
written approval of the control authority, where a user has a wastewater
discharge that contains true color from any source and of any hue:
      (1)   With less than the equivalent luminescence and greater than the
equivalent purity of a 500 unit platinum-cobalt stock standard, as determined
by the spectrophotometric* or tristimulus* methods. Equivalent values shall be
determined at the dominant wavelength of the sample and compared to the values
determined at the dominant wavelength of the stock standard. (*Analysis shall
be performed at ambient (as received) pH only.);
      (2)   That is not removed in the POTW process; or
      (3)   That causes the plant effluent to have a true color in excess of
100 units on the platinum-cobalt scale, or its equivalent.
   (B)   Where a user does not meet division (A)(1) above and does meet
divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above, he, she or it may apply, in writing, to the
control authority to discharge wastewater with higher color unit values. Should
the control authority approve such a discharge, the user shall monitor his, her
or its discharge in a manner established by the control authority. Approval
will be in writing by the EAJSA in the form of a permit modification. Failure
to monitor in a manner established by the authority or exceeding the higher
interim limit established by the authority shall subject the user to the
regulations of the control authority as set out in
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Where the control authority observes any visible color in its influent
flow, it shall have the right to issue an administrative order to any or all
users, at its sole discretion, to reduce the color of their discharge to limits
established in division (A)(1) above within seven days of written notification.
   (D) Where in the sole judgement of the control authority, wastewater or
wastewaters with sufficient color are being discharged which is not being
removed in the POTW process and causes the plant effluent to have a true color
in excess of 100 units on the platinum-cobalt scale, the control authority
reserves the right to reduce the color unit limit as described in division (A)
(1) above to a lower value and shall require all users to comply with these new
limits within 30 days of notification. Failure to comply shall subject the user
to the regulations of the control authority as set out in
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
VARIANCE IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
§ 55.30 IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES.
   As referenced in the EAJSA’s to the regulations of the control authority as
set out in
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances, the following implementation procedures
evaluate a color limit variance.
   (A)   (1)   Any industrial user (IU) with a total flow less than or equal to
500,000 gpd (5% of the WWTP’s hydraulic design capacity) and a discharge
quality not exceeding the color limit (less than the equivalent luminescence
and greater than the equivalent purity of a 500 unit platinum-cobalt stock
standard) at the dilution ratios listed below, will be eligible to apply for a
variance:
 
IU Flow (gpd)     Dilution Ratio
<10,000           20:1
10,000 to 50,000  10:1
50,000 to 500,000 5:1
 
      (2)   On a case-by-case basis, in the event of extraordinary
circumstances, the IPP Coordinator may allow IUs who do not meet the criteria
above to apply for a variance.
   (B)   The IU must submit a written request for a variance to the color limit
which must include an explanation for the basis for the variance, production
information, discharge quality and quantity, discharge variability, discharge
data from other similar facilities owned by the IU (if applicable), compliance
history, level of exceedances, pretreatment options and costs and any other
information deemed necessary by the IPP Coordinator.
   (C)   The IPP Coordinator will review the request for a variance to the
color limit within 30 days of receipt and will schedule a technical meeting
between representatives of the EAJSA and the IU. The purpose of this meeting
will be to discuss site specific issues associated with the variance, to
determine whether or not additional studies (e.g., impact, treatability and the
like) may be required and to develop a schedule for completion of any required
study(s).
   (D)   A decision to approve or deny a variance to the color limit will be
made within 60 days of receipt of all required information from the IU. The
approval of a color limit variance and level of relaxation afforded to the IU
will be made on a case-by-case basis using the information obtained in
divisions (B) and (C) above. Any variance will be approved in writing as a
permit modification and the basis for the said modification will be documented
in the user’s file.
   (E)   The IU will still be required to comply with the EAJSA’s existing
color limit until such time that a variance to the color limit is approved.
   (F)   (1)   The WWTP does not have an NPDES permit limit for color. DRBC
water quality regulations include an effluent standard of 100 cpu for color for
municipal wastewater effluents. When a variance is granted, the WWTP will
record any unusual visual observations of the color of the plant influent and
effluent. If necessary, a grab sample of the effluent will be collected and
analyzed for color to track compliance with the 100 cpu DRBC standard.
      (2)   As indicated, IUs will be required to comply with increased
monitoring frequencies for color. The following color monitoring schedule will
be followed (based on discharge flow) when a variance is granted:
 
IU Flow (gpd)     Color Monitoring Frequency
<1,000            Once per month
1,000 to 10,000   Twice per month
10,000 to 25,000  Once per week
25,000 to 500,000 Twice per week
 
      (3)   If the IPP Coordinator determines that sufficient monitoring data
has been obtained, the IPP Coordinator may elect to reduce the color monitoring
frequency for an IU.
      (4)   As a matter of information, Pennsylvania DEP water quality
regulations include instream criteria for color as follows: 50 cpu for
protection of aesthetics; and 75 cpu for water supply protection. Based on
dilution and the fact that there are no potable water supply intakes located
along the Delaware River in a close downstream proximity to the WWTP’s outfall,
these Pennsylvania DEP criteria are not of concern. We also do not anticipate
that an industrial discharge with excessive amounts of color will cause
interference or other problems at the WWTP.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 55.31 REDUCED MONITORING.
   (A)   In 1998, the EAJSA IPP initiated a compliance recognition program. The
program was designed to recognize permitted industries that have exhibited
complete compliance with their individual discharge permit and the EAJSA rules
and regulations for an entire calendar year. To date, the program has included
a certification of recognition and notice in the local newspaper.
   (B)   As an added incentive to the compliance recognition program, the EAJSA
will be offering a reduced monitoring plan which would include the following
requirements and implementation procedures.
      (1)   (a)   The industry must be in complete compliance with the EAJSA
rules and regulations and their individual industrial discharge permit for two
consecutive calendar years (start date to be determined by EAJSA).
         (b)   COMPLETE COMPLIANCE is defined as a user being consistently
below 80% of his, her or its limit for arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper,
cyanide, lead, mercury, nickel, total oil and grease, petroleum oil and grease,
phenols, silver and zinc.
         (c)   For pH, color and any other specific limitations, complete
compliance is based on the limits outlined in the user’s individual discharge
permit
      (2)   Reduced monitoring would be for routine compliance testing
parameters only (does not include surcharge or investigative sampling).
      (3)   Any compliance issues would cause the industry to be returned to
its original or more stringent monitoring schedule immediately.
      (4)   The reduced monitoring schedule for significant industrial users
would be semiannual and for minor industrial users would be annual.
      (5)   The reduced monitoring does not apply to federal categorical
monitoring requirements.
      (6)   The EAJSA reserves the right to modify the procedures to ensure the
integrity of the POTW.
(Ord. 197, passed 11-4-2002)
CHAPTER 56: SEWER TAPPING
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Permit
Tapping Fee
   
56.15   Generally
   
56.16   Development and determination
   
56.17   Calculation
   
56.18   Minimum fee
   
56.19   Combination of more than one dwelling unit
   
56.20   Single service connection
   
56.21   Converted, enlarged or remodeled building
   
56.22   Where square footage is used to determine the fee
General Regulations
   
56.35   Sewer rentals
   
56.36   Exclusion of harmful waste
   
56.37   Equalizing waste flows
   
56.38   Access at reasonable times
   
56.39   Sewer billing adjustments for extraordinary water usage
   
56.40   Supplemental water meters
 
   
56.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Schedule of EDU values
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Tatamy Borough Sewer Authority, as presently or hereafter
constituted, which has been created by the Council of Tatamy Borough, and to
which has been referred by the borough the specific project of sewers.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure or any portions thereof intending to
be used wholly or in part for the purposes of carrying on a trade, business or
profession, or for social, amusement, religious, educational, charitable or
public use, and which contains plumbing for kitchen, toilet or washing
facilities. Hotels, motels, boarding or rooming houses and institutional
dormitories shall be included in this definition.
   COUNCIL. The group of elected officials acting as the governing body of the
borough.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property upon which there is erected a structure
intended or used for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy for any
purpose whatsoever, or used for any purpose whatsoever, by human beings or
animals, from which sanitary wastes or wastes in addition to or other than
sanitary sewage is discharged and is connected or required to be connected
directly or indirectly to the sewer system.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure intending to be used wholly or in
part for the manufacturing, fabricating, processing, cleaning, laundering or
assembly of any products, commodity or article.
   NONRESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment now or hereafter served by
the sewage system other than residential establishment, and includes references
to the terms commercial establishment and industrial establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation, group or entity.
   RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any room, group of rooms, house, trailer,
structure, dwelling or enclosure intended to be occupied or occupied as
separate living quarters by a family or other group of persons living together
or by persons living alone but excluding institutional dormitories.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The normal water carried household and toilet waste from
residential and nonresidential establishments, as well as any solid, liquid or
gaseous substance or waterborne wastes or form of energy rejected or escaping
from any industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources which are suitable for
discharge to the sewage system.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All temporary and permanent facilities at any time, and from
time to time, owned or leased by the authority or leased to and operated by the
borough and used or usable for, or in connection with, the collection of
sanitary sewage.
   TAPPING FEE. A fee imposed under the authority of the Municipality
Authorities Act, 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq. to enable the recovery of the cost
of construction of the sewage collection system.
   WATER SUPPLIER. The Pennsylvania-American Water Company, its successors and
assigns.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.02 PERMIT.
   No persons shall connect any dwelling unit, improved property, commercial
establishment or industrial establishment, or any other facility hereafter
described to the sewer system without first making application for and securing
a permit, in writing from the borough. Such application shall be made on a form
to be provided in the authority manual(s) entitled Individual Residential
Dwelling Sanitary Sewer Connection Application Information and/or Project
Manual for Sewer Construction.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
TAPPING FEE
§ 56.15 GENERALLY.
   A tapping fee as set forth in §
56.17 is imposed upon and is to be charged to and paid by the owner of each
dwelling unit, improved property, commercial establishment, industrial
establishment and any other facility described herein, who or of which shall
physically connect its or their property to the sewer system, whether such use
shall be direct or indirect, and subject further to the conditions stated in §
56.17.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.16 DEVELOPMENT AND DETERMINATION.
   The development and determination of the tapping fee herein is based on
financial information and data prepared by authority engineers and presented to
the authority in August 2007, and copies of the same were made available to the
public at the public meeting at which this chapter was adopted.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.17 CALCULATION.
   The tapping fees shall be calculated as follows: the fee for capacity
related facilities which provide service by connection to the sewer system
shall be $2,722 per equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) in accordance with the table
in Appendix A.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.18 MINIMUM FEE.
   The minimum tapping fee for each connection to the sewer system shall be
$2,722.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.19 COMBINATION OF MORE THAN ONE DWELLING UNIT.
   In the case of a combination of one or more dwelling units, each thereof
having use of the sewer system through one sewer connection, then each such
dwelling unit shall be charged for the fee herein provided as though each
dwelling unit had a direct and separate connection to the sewer system. Each
dwelling unit in a double house, row or connecting houses, and in trailer park
or mobile home park, shall be considered as a separate entity for the purpose
of calculating the tapping fee. In the case of apartment buildings or
condominiums, each apartment unit and each condominium unit shall be considered
a dwelling unit, and one tapping fee shall be paid for each dwelling unit
within the apartment building or condominium, but paid by the owner of the
apartment building or condominium, as distinguished from the occupant of the
apartment unit or condominium unit owner.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.20 SINGLE SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Where two or more buildings or structures are connected to the sewer system
through a single service connection, or where two or more uses are made of the
same improved property (i.e., motel with a restaurant, retail store with a
restaurant, hotel with rooms or apartments, home with a professional office and
the like), the tapping fee determination shall be computed as though such
building and each type of use were separate, improved properties or uses with
separate sewer connections. For connected buildings of multiple users with one
sewer connection, see §
56.35.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.21 CONVERTED, ENLARGED OR REMODELED BUILDING.
   Where any building connected to the sewer system shall be converted,
enlarged or remodeled, or additional buildings shall be constructed on a
property and connected indirectly to the sewer system through an existing
lateral, or connected directly through a new lateral so as to create or
establish more extensive use or additional uses as classified in §
56.17, an additional tapping fee in accordance with §
56.17, and subject also to the provisions of §
56.35, for each such additional use, shall be payable to the authority by owner
of the property so improved.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.22 WHERE SQUARE FOOTAGE IS USED TO DETERMINE THE FEE.
   Where square footage is used to determine tapping fee EDU values, the gross
floor area of the building, including the total of each floor and basement,
shall be used.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 56.35 SEWER RENTALS.
   (A)   Owners of property connected to and from which wastewaters are
discharged to the sewage system, and to which is furnished metered water
service by the water supplier, with exceptions set forth in divisions (B) and
(C) below shall pay quarterly sewer rental based upon volumes of water consumed
at the rate of $4.60 per 1,000 gallons of water used, plus a service
administration fee of $15 per EDU. The minimum quarterly volume assessment will
be 6,000 gallons (minimum charge of $42.60 for a single- family dwelling). The
volume of water to be used for billing sewer rentals under this division (A)
shall include aggregate quarterly volumes of water purchased from the water
supplier.
   (B)   In case of owners of property from which wastewaters are discharged to
the sewer system that originate in more than one residential and/or
nonresidential establishment located on the property, sewer rentals shall be
computed for each individual establishment as set forth in division (A) above.
Individual sewer rentals thus computed for each establishment shall be totaled
for purposes of determining the aggregate sewer rental billing to the property
owner.
   (C)   Sewer rental charges set forth herein shall be effective with respect
to sewer service rendered on September 1, 1993 and hereafter. All sewer rental
billings shall be rendered in arrears of the service provided for calendar
quarter service periods on January 1, April 1, July and October 1, of each year
a property is connected to the sewage system. Bills shall be rendered quarterly
for the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March, June, September and
December of each year. Sewer rental billings shall be based upon water consumed
and metered during the quarterly water service period immediately preceding the
quarter in which the sewer billing is rendered. Owners of property connected to
the sewer system for only a portion of the calendar quarter shall pay a pro-
rata sewer rental for the period of time actually connected during the quarter.
All sewer rental billings shall be due and payable upon presentation and if not
paid within 30 days from the date of billing, a penalty of 5% shall be added.
Any billing not paid within 90 days from the date of billing shall be
considered delinquent and assessed an additional 15% of the current rate as a
delinquent penalty. Said penalty shall be charged against the account and
considered the responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   Owners of properties not served by the public water system must
purchase a water meter from the authority, which meter shall be installed
according to the authority specifications. The property owner shall be
responsible for maintenance of the meter.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.36 EXCLUSION OF HARMFUL WASTE.
   (A)   The authority reserves the right to refuse permission to connect to
the sewer system, to compel discontinuance of use of the sewage system or to
compel pretreatment or wastewaters in order to prevent discharges deemed
harmful, or to have a deleterious effect upon any portion of the sewage system.
   (B)   No wastewaters shall be discharged to the sewer system:
      (1)   Having a temperature higher than 140°F;
      (2)   Containing more than 100 ppm by way of fats, oils and grease;
      (3)   Containing any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other
inflammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases;
      (4)   Containing any garbage that has not been ground by household type
or other suitable garbage grinders;
      (5)   Containing any ashes, cinders, sands, mud, straw, shavings, metal,
glass, rags, feather, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or
viscous substances capable of causing obstructions or other interferences with
proper operation of the sewage system;
      (6)   Having a pH lower than 6.5 or higher than 9.0, or having any other
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazards to structures,
equipment or personnel of the sewer system;
      (7)   Containing toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or constitute hazards to
human or animals, or to create any hazard in waters which receive treatment
effluent from the City of Easton sewage treatment plant. Toxic wastes shall
include, but not way of limitation, waste containing cyanide, chromium, copper
and nickel ions;
      (8)   Containing noxious malodorous or substances capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (9)   Containing solids of such character and quantity that special and
unusual attention is required for their handling;
      (10)   Containing water or substances, having characteristics and the
like, which violate provisions of the agreements for sewage transportation
treatment services with the Easton Area Joint Sewer Authority; and
      (11)   Which contain surface drainage or stormwater.
   (C)   Suitable pretreatment facilities shall be installed to meet these
requirements.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.37 EQUALIZING WASTE FLOWS.
   The authority reserves the right to require industrial establishments having
large variation in rates of wastewater discharged to install suitable
regulating devices for equalizing waste flows to the sewer system.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.38 ACCESS AT REASONABLE TIMES.
   The authority representative shall have access at all reasonable times to
water and any other meters used for establishing or determining water
consumption, water excluded from the sewage system and/or wastewater discharged
to the sewer system.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.39 SEWER BILLING ADJUSTMENTS FOR EXTRAORDINARY WATER USAGE.
   At the discretion of the Tatamy Borough Sewer Authority, the following
adjustments may be applied to billings for borough sewage treatment charges in
the event of an unanticipated and/or extraordinary water use by property
owners.
   (A)   Extraordinary water usage due to a system failure which did not enter
the sewage collection system. For example, an underground break in a water
supply line to a residence or between out-buildings of a property after the
metered water service connection. In such situations, property owners (after
providing evidence of the leak) may be reimbursed or credited for billed sewage
treatment charges at the current billing rate per 1,000 gallons. The quarterly
debt service charge will remain at $15, regardless of water usage. The sewage
treatment charge portion of the quarterly billing will be based on the average
water consumption for that property over the previous four-quarter billing
period.
   (B)   Extraordinary water usage due to a system failure which entered the
sewage collection system. For example, a severely leaking toilet valve or major
failure of the plumbing system causing greater than 100% increase in the
“usual” average water usage volumes for a property shall enable the property
owners, after providing evidence of the leak, to be reimbursed or credited for
billed sewage treatment charges at 50% of the current billing rate per 1,00
gallons. The quarterly debt service charge will remain at $15, regardless of
water usage. The sewage treatment charge portion of the quarterly billing will
be based on the average consumption for that property over the previous four-
quarter billing period.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.40 SUPPLEMENTAL WATER METERS.
   The authority will allow for the installation of a second water diversion
meter for non-sewage water use servicing a hose connection for car washing,
watering gardens, filling swimming pools and the like, or other water uses that
will not enter the sanitary sewer collection system.
   (A)   Diversion meter regulations.
      (1)   A diversion meter permit at a fee of $5 must be obtained from the
Borough Secretary/Treasurer by the property owner.
      (2)   The installation and maintenance of these meters will be the sole
responsibility and expense of the property owner.
      (3)   The diversion meter shall be a Sensus water meter (or equivalent),
five-eighths inch with a remote generator which shall read flow in gallons. The
meter readout shall be located on the outside of the property for easy
accessibility of readings. This metering devise may be purchased directly from
the authority at cost.
      (4)   Only an outside spigot shall be connected to the diversion meter,
and there shall be no other connections. The diversion meter shall be installed
within six feet, or as close as practicable, to the outside spigot.
      (5)   The installation must be inspected by an authority representative
prior to its use for billing adjustment purposes. As part of the initial
inspection, the authority representative will obtain the starting meter
reading, and seal the meter at that time. Appointments for the inspection can
be scheduled with the borough office.
      (6)   The property owner agrees to permit the authority representative
access to the property during reasonable hours for the purpose of conducting
said inspections and meter readings.
      (7)   Property owners will be credited for sewage treatment charges at
the current billing rate per 1,000 gallons. Credit for non-sewage water use
will be given only on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter billing period
each year. This credit will represent non-sewer water usage during the previous
four-quarter period.
         (a)   In order to receive credit for non-sewage water use, you must
use the online meter usage form. The form can be found on the borough website
www.tatamypa.com.
         (b)   If you do not have a computer or internet access, please take
your information to the Borough Office and the Borough Secretary/Treasurer can
enter your information there.
         (c)   The credit will be applied at the end of the calendar year
invoicing which is normally sent out around December 10.
      (8)   Water meters will be audited annually by an authority
representative.
   (B)   Annual filling of swimming pools.
      (1)   The authority will allow for sewage billing adjustments for the
initial filling of a new or existing swimming pool. As a service to the
community, swimming pool owners will be loaned a portable metering device by
the authority to measure pool water makeup from a standard hose connection.
      (2)   Property owners may “sign out” the portable meter from the Borough
Secretary/Treasurer at the Borough Office. The log-out/log-in meter readings
will be used to adjust sewer use charges for the next quarter billing. The
portable meter will be loaned out for a maximum period of three days to ensure
its availability to all borough residents in a timely manner.
      (3)   Only a metered water use for the filling of swimming pools, as
described above, will be credited to quarterly sewage treatment charges.
“Estimates” of water volume based upon swimming pool dimensions will not be
given credit.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Quarterly charges for sewer service shall be subject to 5% penalty if
not paid within 30 days after the date of billing. Any billing not paid within
90 days from the date of billing shall be considered delinquent and assessed an
additional 15% of the current rate as a delinquent penalty. Additionally, all
delinquent owners will be responsible for all attorney fees and court cost
actually expended in the collection of all delinquent accounts. Additionally,
if the bill is not paid within 90 days after becoming due, the authority shall
have the right to cut off water and sewer service from the delinquent premises,
and not to restore the same until all delinquent bills against the same and the
cost of cutting off and restoring service shall have been paid. Property owner
shall be responsible for all costs for disconnection and reconnection of the
services.
   (B)   All persons connecting to the sewage system must give the authority
their correct address. Failure to receive bills will not be considered an
excuse for nonpayment, nor permit an extension of the period during which bills
are payable at face value.
   (C)   Payments made, as evidenced by the United States Post Office mark on
or previous to the end of the period during which the bills are payable at face
value, will be deemed to be payment within such period.
   (D)   All sewer rentals, together with all penalties thereon, not paid on or
before the end of one year from the date of each bill shall be deemed to be
delinquent. All delinquent sewer rentals and all penalties thereon shall be a
lien on the property served and shall be entered as a lien against such
property in the office of the Prothonotary of the county, and shall be
collected in the manner provided by law for the filing of collection of such
liens.
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF EDU VALUES
Property to Be Connected EDU Value
Property to Be Connected                                                       EDU Value
(a) Each private dwelling unit or living unit (including each home, townhouse, 1 EDU/unit
condominium unit or apartment unit)
(b) Each fire house or municipal building                                      No EDU/
                                                                               connection
(c) Each church                                                                1 EDU/
                                                                               connection
                                                                               1 EDU/
(d) Each retail store                                                          3,500 sq.
                                                                               ft.
(e) Each strip mall, strip plaza shopping mall, whether enclosed or not,       1 EDU/
consisting of 2 or more connected units, in lieu of separate calculations for  2,200 sq.
retail stores, restaurants, offices and any other uses, but excluding          ft.
laundromats, which shall be calculated separately under (v)
(f) Each office, office building or portion of a building used for business    1 EDU/
and/or professional offices (excluding doctor’s and dentist’s offices, for 3,500 sq.
which additional tapping fees will be charged in accordance with categories    ft.
(i) and (j) of this schedule)
                                                                               1 EDU/
(g) Each warehouse, in addition to office space                                25,000 sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               1 EDU/
(h) Each industrial establishment excluding process waste                      3,500 sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               1 EDU/
(i) Each doctor’s office                                                     2
                                                                               examining
                                                                               rooms
                                                                               1 EDU/
(j) Each dentist’s office                                                    3 dental
                                                                               chairs
(k) Each retail gas station without car washing facilities                     1 EDU/
                                                                               connection
(l) Each retail gas station with car washing facilities                        2 EDU/
                                                                               connection
                                                                               1 EDU/
(m) Each hotel or motel, in addition to restaurant or bar                      restroom
                                                                               facility
(n) Each restaurant, barroom or other commercial establishment (not otherwise  1 EDU/
classified herein) which regularly dispenses food and/or beverages             restroom
                                                                               facility
(o) Each banquet room (room not used for general restaurant trade, but used    1 EDU/30
for group functions)                                                           seats
(p) Hospital                                                                   1 EDU/1.5
                                                                               beds
(q) Rest homes, nursing homes                                                  1. EDU/2.5
                                                                               beds
                                                                               1 EDU/
(r) Funeral homes                                                              2 viewing
                                                                               rooms
                                                                               1 EDU/15
(s) Each public or private day school (in accordance with rate capacity)       teachers,
                                                                               employees
                                                                               and pupils
(t) Each boarding school                                                       1 EDU/
                                                                               3 pupils
                                                                               1 EDU/20
(u) Each day care school (in accordance with rate capacity)                    teachers,
                                                                               employees
                                                                               and pupils
(v) Self-service laundromat                                                    1 EDU/
                                                                               2 machines
(w) Theaters                                                                   1 EDU/100
                                                                               seats
(x) Bowling alleys, in addition to restaurant facilities                       1 EDU/
                                                                               5 alleys
(y) Beauty/barber shops                                                        1 EDU
                                                                               1 EDU/240
(z) Industrial process waste, cooling water or any water or wastewater         gals/day
discharge other than normal domestic water                                     average
                                                                               daily flow
                                                                               To be
(aa) Any other uses not classified above                                       determined
                                                                               by
                                                                               authority
 
(Res. 01-2013-20, passed 1-10-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions and interpretations
   
70.02   Manner of adopting permanent traffic and parking regulations
   
70.03   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.04   Experimental regulations
   
70.05   Traffic on streets closed or restricted for construction, maintenance
or special events
   
70.06   Authority of police officers
   
70.07   Reports of accidents required
   
70.08   Placement of banners across state highway or within highway right-of-
way
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases, when used in this title, except for sections in
chapters to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.), as
amended, except that, in this title, the word “street” may be used
interchangeably with the word “highway,” and shall have the same meaning as the
word “highway” as defined in the Vehicle Code.
   (B)   In this title, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 70.02 MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances or as parts of ordinances or as amendments to ordinances of the
borough, except where the law specifically authorizes less formal action.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 70.03 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the following powers to regulate traffic and
parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
      (2)   In the case of emergency public works or public events of limited
scope or duration, to restrict or prohibit traffic and/or parking in limited
areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   These temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Mayor and the Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 70.04 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   Council may, from time to time, designate places upon and along the streets
in the borough where, for a period of not more than 90 days, specific traffic
and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be in force and
effect, and shall designate those locations by proper signs and markings. Those
regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be effective just as if they
had been specified in this section. No person shall drive or park a vehicle in
violation of any such regulation, prohibition or restriction, and no person
shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or marking erected, posted or
made by authority of this section.
(Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ON STREETS CLOSED OR RESTRICTED FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE
OR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Council shall have authority to close any street or specific
part of a street to vehicular traffic and to place barriers or station police
officers of such other persons designated by the Chief of Police at each end of
the closed portion, while construction or maintenance work is under way or a
special event is being conducted on the closed portion.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any
such closed portion.
   (B)   Council shall have authority to establish a restricted traffic area
upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under way and to
station police officers or flaggers at each end of the restricted portion. It
shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted
traffic area at any time when the flagger is displaying a sign directing that
vehicle to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not
to proceed.
(Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers of the borough shall have authority to direct traffic on
the streets in the borough, at intersections in public and in other places
where the Vehicle Code or this title applies.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 70.07 REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS REQUIRED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle involved in an accident in the borough,
and required by law to report such accident to any department or agency of the
commonwealth, or any other person required to make such report, shall, at the
time of making such report to the commonwealth, make a written report to the
Chief of Police of the borough, containing the same information.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 70.08 PLACEMENT OF BANNERS ACROSS STATE HIGHWAY OR WITHIN HIGHWAY RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   Certain persons, municipalities and corporate entities are authorized to
place overhead banners across State Route 1002 under the following conditions:
   (A)   The location for banner placement is at State Route 1002, Segment
0070, Offset 0690 (7th Street).
   (B)   The minimum vertical clearance will be 17 feet and six inches above
the roadway.
   (C)   Banners will be erected not earlier than 15 days prior to the event
and will be removed within two days after the event.
   (D)   The borough assumes full responsibility for erecting, maintaining and
removing the device and all liability for damages occurring to any persons or
property arising from any act of omission associated with the sign or banner.
   (E)   No more than 20% of the message on the banner will relate to naming or
advertising a commercial product, enterprise, business or company.
   (F)   While erecting, maintaining and removing the banner, traffic control
will be performed in accordance with the most current PennDOT Publication 213,
Temporary Traffic Control Guidelines.
   (G)   The borough may charge a fee for services associated with the erection
of the banner.
(Res. 2019-04, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who drives or parks a vehicle in violation of any such
regulation shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be liable
to the penalty set out in the law or elsewhere in this title for a violation of
that nature, and, in case of a violation for which no specific penalty is set
out in the law or elsewhere in this title, to a fine of $25 and costs.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.04 shall, upon conviction, be liable to the penalty set out in the law or
elsewhere in this title for a violation of that nature, and, in case of a
violation for which no specific penalty is set out in the law or elsewhere in
this title, to a fine of $25 and costs; provided, the purpose of §
70.04 is to allow for test and experimental determination of the feasibility
and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the borough relative
to traffic and parking.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.05 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
   (D)   Any person failing to make such report as required in §
70.07 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $10 and
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than five days.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Motor vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks
   
71.02   Play highway established and authorized
   
71.03   Skateboards
Truck Traffic
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Rule of construction
   
71.17   Truck prohibited
   
71.18   Exemptions
   
71.19   Pick-ups, deliveries, service calls
   
71.20   Leaving or returning to home or place of business
   
71.21   Special permits
   
71.22   Signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 MOTOR VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle longitudinally upon any sidewalk
in the borough; nor shall any person operate any vehicle upon or across any
sidewalk except in order to gain access to or egress from a driveway or alley
at such locations where the curb, if such sidewalk is curbed, shall have been
properly cut down for the purpose.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PLAY HIGHWAY ESTABLISHED AND AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to designate as play highways, whenever he or
she deems that action advisable, and for whatever period of time directed by
him or her, any part of the street in the borough, where sledding and coasting,
shall be permitted. That play highway shall be set apart for the purpose under
the direction of the Mayor.
   (B)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon any play highway at any
time when that street shall be designated as a play highway, except in case of
emergency, with special permission of the Mayor or of the police officer in
charge, who shall first clear that play highway of all persons using it for the
purpose for which it was set aside.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 SKATEBOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride or operate a skateboard on any
street, alley, public thoroughfare or other municipal property in the borough.
No skateboard shall be ridden or operated at any time upon private property
without the permission of the property owner.
(Ord. 199, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 231-2007, passed 11-5-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
TRUCK TRAFFIC
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle that is designed for agricultural
purpose and exclusively used by the owner thereof in the conduct of
agricultural operations.
   PERSON. Includes an agency, company, organization, firm, association,
partnership, joint venture, corporation, trust or equivalent entity or a
combination of any of them as well as a natural person.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without a motor, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
some other vehicle.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without a motor, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle that is designed, used or maintained primarily
for the transportation of property, except a pick-up truck or a van designed to
carry loads of no more than one ton.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.16 RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Any word or term not defined herein shall be considered to be defined in
accordance with its common or standard definition.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.17 TRUCK PROHIBITED.
   Except as expressly permitted under this subchapter, no person shall operate
a truck or truck- tractor or semi-trailer or truck-tractor and trailer
combination, or truck and trailer combination in the borough on the restricted
streets listed in
Chapter 75, Schedule V.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   The limitations contained in this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Fire trucks or other emergency vehicles or vehicle on emergency
business involved in the saving of life or property;
   (B)   Implements of husbandry incidentally moved upon a road;
   (C)   School buses;
   (D)   Road repair, construction or maintenance vehicles while involved in
the repair, construction or maintenance of roads or property within the
borough; or
   (E)   Garbage service vehicles while involved in the provision of services
to residents of the borough.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.19 PICK-UPS, DELIVERIES, SERVICE CALLS.
   A vehicle that would otherwise be prohibited on a restricted street which is
being used to make pick-ups, deliveries or service calls in the borough on a
restricted street shall restrict its travel to a minimum. Said vehicle shall be
driven in such a manner as to leave a permitted truck route and proceed to its
destination or destinations in the borough by the most direct route. Upon
completion of the pick-ups, deliveries or service calls, the vehicle shall
return to the nearest permitted truck route or leave the borough by the most
direct route.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.20 LEAVING OR RETURNING TO HOME OR PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent a truck or truck-tractor and semi-
trailer, or truck tractor and trailer combination, or truck and trailer
combination from leaving or returning to its customary storage location at the
owner or operator’s personal residence, or a commercial or industrial location
in the borough, provided the most direct route to and from a designated truck
route is utilized even if such route contains a restricted street.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.21 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The Borough Secretary/Treasurer shall have authority to grant a written
permit in special cases that would otherwise be in violation of the provisions
of this subchapter. Such permits, however, shall not be given for more than one
round trip, and in no case shall a permit be valid for a longer period than ten
days from the date of issue. Said permit shall describe the vehicle, the time
and date of travel, and the route to be taken by the vehicle. The Borough
Council shall, by resolution, set a fee for special permits.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.22 SIGNS.
   The borough shall procure and have posted appropriate signs advising of the
restrictions imposed on a restricted street as required by the laws of the
state.
(Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $50, and in default of payment of such for and costs of prosecution, to
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than ten days.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.02 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 plus costs.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.22 shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon conviction shall be fined
not more than $300 at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 199, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 231-2007,
passed 11-5-2007; Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking without lights authorized
   
72.02   Vehicles to park within marked spaces
   
72.03   Parking restrictions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING WITHOUT LIGHTS AUTHORIZED.
   The boundary limits of the borough are hereby established as a zone in which
motor vehicles may remain standing without lights, and all streets and alleys
within such boundary limits are hereby designated as streets where motor
vehicles may remain standing without lights.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 72.02 VEHICLES TO PARK WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
   Wherever a space is marked off on any street for the parking of an
individual vehicle, every vehicle parked there shall be parked wholly within
the lines bounding that space, and it shall be a violation of this section for
any person to park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked otherwise.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle:
   (A)   In a bus zone;
   (B)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (C)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the site of a roadway;
   (D)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (E)   Within 50 feet of a railroad crossing or on any railroad tracks;
   (F)   On a sidewalk, crosswalk, school property;
   (G)   Obstructing a private or public driveway, entrance to a building, fire
station or obstructing traffic;
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
   (I)   In such a manner that the vehicle is not discernible for 300 feet;
parked more than six inches from a curb, on a narrow street; without proper
lights, facing against traffic movement; parking alongside highway excavation;
blocking snow removal equipment; double-parking or parking in a handicap
parking zone; and
   (J)   Any other violation of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code (75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 167-1996, passed 8-5-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall pay
a fine of $15 and costs of prosecution and in default of payment of fines and
costs shall be guilty of a summary offense under the Motor Vehicle Code and
subject to imprisonment of not more than 90 days.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 167-1996,
passed 8-5-1996)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Equipment
   
73.03   Operation
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A device having two tandem wheels of a diameter not less than 16
inches and propelled by human power.
(Ord. 101-1975, passed 1-1-1975)
§ 73.02 EQUIPMENT.
   Every bicycle operated upon a street or public place at any time, during the
period from one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise, and at any other
time when there is not sufficient light under normal atmospheric conditions to
render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or public places
at a distance of 500 feet ahead, shall be equipped with a lighted lamp on the
front thereof, and shall also be equipped with a red reflector or lamp on the
rear, exhibiting or reflecting a red light visible, under like conditions, from
a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such bicycle. The reflector or
lamp on the rear shall be of a diameter of at least one and one-half inches.
Every bicycle shall also be equipped with brakes, in good condition, and with a
bell, horn or other warning device. All mechanical parts of the bicycle shall
be in working condition.
(Ord. 101-1975, passed 1-1-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATION.
   (A)   A bicycle shall be operated only on the roadway as near to the right-
hand side as possible. Bicycles whose wheel diameter is 16 inches or over shall
not be operated on the sidewalks.
   (B)   The operator of a bicycle shall obey all official traffic signals,
signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (C)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from a driveway or building shall
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians on the sidewalk and to all vehicles
on the roadway.
   (D)   The operator of a bicycle shall not indulge in any abnormal or trick
riding, and shall keep at least one hand on the handle bar at all times while
in use.
   (E)   Operators of bicycles shall not ride in any manner other than single
file except on paths or parts of the roadway set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (F)   Operators of bicycles shall not hitch onto vehicles or buses upon a
roadway.
   (G)   The operator of a bicycle shall park the bicycle upon the roadway at
the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or against a
building, except windows or glass doors thereof, in such a manner as to afford
the least obstruction to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 101-1975, passed 1-1-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted in a summary conviction before a Council member
or magistrate of a violation of any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.03 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Impounding of the bicycle for not more than seven days for the
first violation; impounding of the bicycle for not more than 14 days for the
second violation; impounding of the bicycle for not more than 30 days for the
third violation; and
      (2)   A fine of not more than $50.
(Ord. 101-1975, passed 1-1-1975)
CHAPTER 74: STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Applicability and scope
   
74.02   Words and phrases
   
74.03   Storage of motor vehicles on streets and alleys prohibited
   
74.04   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
74.05   Parking under certain purposes prohibited
   
74.06   Non-applicability to car dealers
   
74.07   Authority to remove and impound
   
74.08   Designation of approved storage garages; bonding; towing and storage
   
74.09   Payment of towing and storage charges
   
74.10   Reclamation costs
   
74.11   Records of vehicles removed and impounded
   
74.12   Restrictions upon removal of vehicles
   
74.13   Reports and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   This part is enacted under authority of § 6109(a-22) of the Vehicle Code (75
Pa.C.S. § 6109(a)(22)), and gives authority to the borough to remove and
impound those vehicles which are parked in a tow away zone and in violation of
parking regulations of this chapter. Vehicles which have been abandoned (as
defined by the Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.) or which are
parked in such a manner as to interfere with traffic or pose a hazard to
others, or as set forth in §§
74.03,
74.04 and
74.05, may be towed under the provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code (75
Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.)
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.02 WORDS AND PHRASES.
   When used in this chapter, words and phrases shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Motor Vehicle Code of the state, as now in force, or as
may hereafter be amended, enacted or re-enacted, except in those instances
where the context clearly indicates a difference meaning.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.03 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be stored upon any street or alley in the borough. As used
herein, STORED shall mean the parking of a motor vehicle in one place upon a
street or alley continuously for over seven days.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon any street or alley in the borough
for any of the following purposes:
   (A)   Displaying the same for sale; or
   (B)   Greasing or repairing.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 PARKING UNDER CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on any street, alley or on private
property where the same is in public view, which:
   (A)   Does not display a current license plate;
   (B)   Does not display a current inspection sticker;
   (C)   Is not in operating condition; or
   (D)   Is a junk vehicle.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 NON-APPLICABILITY TO CAR DEALERS.
   The provisions of §
74.04(A) shall not apply to new and used car dealers who shall park or display
new or used motor vehicles on private land zoned for this purpose.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.07 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
   The borough shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding of, any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally,
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in this chapter; provided, no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded
except in strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter, or the provisions
of the State Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.08 DESIGNATION OF APPROVED STORAGE GARAGES; BONDING; TOWING AND STORAGE.
   Removal and impounding of vehicles under this chapter shall be done only by
“approved storage garages” that shall be designated from time to time by the
borough. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the borough that it is
bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the
borough as sufficient to indemnify owners of impounded vehicles against loss or
damage to those vehicles while in the custody of the garage keeper for the
purpose of towing or storage. The approved storage garage shall submit to the
borough its schedule of charges for towing and storage of vehicles under this
chapter, and, when the schedule is approved by the borough, those charges shall
be adhered to by the approved storage garage. No different schedule of charges
shall be demanded of or collected from any person whose vehicle is removed or
impounded under this chapter by any approved storage garage. The borough shall
delete from its list of approved storage garages any garage that makes any
unapproved charge in connection with any vehicle removed or impounded under
this chapter.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.09 PAYMENT OF TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or
driver of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation
of the provisions of this chapter for which the vehicle was removed or
impounded.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 RECLAMATION COSTS.
   In order to reclaim his or her vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and
storage costs, plus a $25 fee, of which $10 shall be transferred to the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle
was taken.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.11 RECORDS OF VEHICLES REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
   The borough shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this chapter and shall be able, at all reasonable times, to furnish the owners,
or the agents of the owners of those vehicles, with information as to the place
of storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.12 RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this chapter or the
Vehicle Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner, or the person
for the time being in charge of the vehicle, is present and expresses a
willingness and intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.13 REPORTS AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   If, after a period of 15 days, the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed, a
report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of the Vehicle
Code (75 Pa.C.S. § 7311), by the person having legal custody of the vehicle. If
the vehicle has not been claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be transferred
to a licensed salvor who will then be responsible for filing the proper reports
and disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 73 of
the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7301 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction is guilty of a summary offense, be punishable:
   (A)   For a first offense, by a fine of $100; and
   (B)   For a subsequent offense, by a fine of not less than $200 or more than
$500 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, together with all
costs of disposing of the vehicle under provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S. §§ 7301 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or re-
enacted by the General Assembly of the state.
(Ord. 188, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 224-2007, passed 4-2-2007)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   U-turns
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Snow emergency routes
      
V.   Truck traffic prohibited
      
VI.   Through highways
SCHEDULE I. U-TURNS.
   No operator of any vehicle shall make a U-turn upon Main Street or Broad
Street. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $10 and costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than five days.
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are established as stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named street (the
intersecting or through street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in
the direction or directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection on the first-named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by § 3323
(b) of the Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S. § 3323(b)), and shall not proceed into or
across the second-named or intersecting or through street until he or she has
followed applicable requirements of that section of the law.
Stop Street Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street         Through Street          Direction of Travel
Broad               Bushkill                Eastbound
Broad               Eighth                  Westbound
Broad               Fifth                   East and westbound
Broad               Fourth                  East and westbound
Broad               Seventh                 East and westbound
Broad               Sixth                   East and westbound
Broad               Third                   Eastbound
Bushkill            Main                    Northbound
Chief Tatamy Street Shelley Street          Eastbound and westbound
Chief Tatamy Street Trisha Street           Eastbound and westbound
Eighth              Commerce Way/ Mill Race Traffic signals
Eighth              Main                    North and southbound (traffic
                                            signals)
Fifth               Broad                   North and southbound
Fifth               High                    Southbound
Fifth               Main                    Northbound
Fourth              Broad                   North and southbound
Fourth              High                    Southbound
Fourth              Main                    Northbound
Green               Fifth                   East and westbound
Green               Fourth                  East and westbound
Green               Sixth                   East and westbound
High                Second                  Eastbound
Hobson              Bushkill                Eastbound
Hobson              Second                  Southbound and westbound
North Tatamy                                 
   Alexus Court  Shelley                 Eastbound
   Bridgette CourShelley                 Eastbound
   Chief Tatamy  Eighth                  Westbound
   Seventh       Chief Tatamy            Northbound
   Shelley       Chief Tatamy            Northbound
   Trisha        Chief Tatamy            Northbound
Park Place          Seventh                 Eastbound
Prospect            Eighth                  Westbound
Prospect            Seventh                 East and westbound
Second              Broad                   North and southbound
Second              Bushkill                Northbound
Second              Hobson                  Eastbound and westbound
Seventh             Broad                   Southbound
Seventh             Main                    North and southbound
Seventh             Prospect                North and southbound
Shelly              Prospect                Southbound
Sixth               Broad                   North and southbound
                                            Northbound traffic and facing
                                            westbound traffic establishing the
Sixth               High                    intersection at Sixth and High as a
                                            4-way stop and establishing
                                            crosswalks between all stop signs
Sixth               Main                    Northbound
Tatamy Hunt Subdivision                      
   Fern Court    Mill Race               Southbound
   Mill Race     Eighth                  Westbound
   Mill Race     Mill Brook              4-way stop
Third               Broad                   North and southbound
Third               Broad                   Westbound
Third               High                    Southbound
Trisha              Prospect                Southbound
West                Fifth                   East and westbound
West                Fourth                  East and westbound
West                Second                  Eastbound
West                Sixth                   Westbound
West                Third                   East and westbound
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this section upon conviction,
be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 31-1964, passed 7-6-1964; Ord. 32-1964, passed 9-1-1964; Ord. 60-1969,
passed 6-2-1969; Ord. 67-70, passed 7-6-1970; Ord. 88-1973, passed 9-10-1973;
Ord. 89-1973, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 149-1989,
passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 184, passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 185, passed 6-7-1999; Ord.
235-2008, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 241-2009, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 251-2011,
passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 258-2012, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 287-2021, passed 12-6-
2021)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies, at a higher speed than
the maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
Street Between Maximum Speed Limit (mph)
Street   Between                   Maximum Speed Limit (mph)
Broad    Entire length             25
Bushkill                           30
Bushkill Main and Bushkill Drive   25
Fifth    Broad and Main            25
Fourth   Broad and Main            25
Green                              25
High     Entire length             25
Hobson                             25
Prospect                           25
Second                             25
Seventh  Main and Chief Tatamy     25
Shelly                             25
Sixth                              25
Third                              25
Trisha   Prospect and Chief Tatamy 25
West                               25
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule shall be
prosecuted under the Vehicle Code, and upon conviction, shall be sentenced to
pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than
five mph shall pay an additional fine of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of
five mph over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 114-1980, passed - -1980; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 182,
passed 4-5-1999)
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The following are designated snow emergency routes:
Street
Street
Alexus Court
Bridgette Court
Broad
Chief Tatamy from the southeast corner of Seventh to Trisha
Chief Tatamy from Trisha to Eighth
Fern Court
High
Main
Mill Brook Court
Mill Race Drive
Prospect
Trisha
Seventh from Main to Chief Tatamy
Shelley from Prospect to No. 175 Shelley
Shelley from Prospect to Chief Tatamy
 
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 202, passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 247-2010,
passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 254-2011, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
151.999
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal, see §§
151.015 through
151.020
SCHEDULE V. TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as expressly permitted under §§
71.15 through
71.22, no person shall operate a truck or truck-tractor or semi-trailer or
truck-tractor and trailer combination, or truck and trailer combination in the
borough on Broad Street between Bushkill and Eight Streets (“restricted
street”).
   (B)   (1)   Due to the engineering determination that heavy truck traffic is
not compatible with the residential traffic using these streets and the roadway
design was not intended to withstand heavy volumes of truck traffic, it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, other than a passenger car, on
any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Street           Between
Mill Race Drive  Eighth Street (SR 2017) to the Borough of Tatamy-Palmer
                 Township boundary
Mill Brook Court The cul-de-sac to the Borough of Tatamy-Palmer Township
                 boundary
 
      (2)   Nothing in this division (B) shall prohibit any person from driving
an emergency vehicle on any of the streets or parts of streets, or from driving
on any of these streets or parts of streets a truck or other commercial vehicle
making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located along that street
or part of the street.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
71.99.
      (2)   Any person violating division (B) above shall be guilty of a
summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $500.
(Ord. 242-2009, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 265-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
SCHEDULE VI. THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   State Highway Route No. 48025, at the intersection with State Highway
Route No. 48019, shall be and is hereby designated as a through highway and all
traffic shall come to a full stop before entering or crossing the same after
proper signs have been erected.
   (B)   The borough does hereby request the Department of Highways to erect
signs at the intersection of Highway Route No. 48019 which enters upon said
Highway Route No. 48025.
   (C)   Said State Highway Route No. 48025 shall not be considered a through
highway unless or until the Secretary of Highways approves this regulation and
the Department of Highways erects the necessary signs to stop traffic as above.
(Res. 1934-03-04, passed 3-4-1935)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Angle parking
      
III.   Crosswalks and reserved parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations unless
posted or marked otherwise.
Street Side Between
Street   Side  Between
Broad    North 95 feet and 135 feet west of Fourth Street
Bushkill East  Main Street and Broad Street
Fifth    East  Main to Green
Fifth    West  Main Street and High Street
Fourth   West  Broad Street and High Street
Fourth   East  Broad Street and Green Street
Fourth   West  Main Street and Green Street
Fourth   West  85 feet and 110 feet north of Broad Street; applies on Sundays
               only
Green    South West end of Green Street eastwardly for a distance of 106 feet
Green    South Third to Sixth
Green    North West end of Green Street and Sixth Street
Green    North Westwardly for a distance of 30 feet beginning 116 feet from
               Fourth and ending 146 feet from Fourth
Main     North Bushkill Street and Eighth Street
Main     South Seventh Street westwardly for a distance of 300 feet
Main     South From the end of the crosswalk for approximately 80 feet for no
               parking along the radius of Main Street onto Bushkill Street
Second   East  High Street and Hobson Street
Second   West  Bushkill Street and High Street
Sixth    East  From the curb on Main for a distance of 90 feet
Sixth    West  Main Street and High Street
Spruce   North Seventh to Eighth
Spruce   South Seventh to Eighth
Third    West  Green Street and High Street
West     South Second to Sixth
 
(Ord. 26-1962, passed 1-7-1963; Ord. 60-1969, passed 6-2-1969; Ord. 66-1970,
passed 4-6-1970; Ord. 89-1973, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 95-1974, passed 8-5-1974;
Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 170-1997, passed 1-6-1997; Ord. 173,
passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 195-2, passed 2-4-2002; Ord. 201, passed 5-5-2003; Ord.
219-2006, passed 7-3-2006; Ord. 234-2008, passed 4-7-2008) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Angle parking shall be permitted on the following streets:
 
Street Side  Between
Broad  North Fourth and Fifth; applies on Sundays, Good Friday, Thanksgiving
             and Christmas
 
   (B)   On all streets where angle parking is allowed, every vehicle parked at
the angle shall be parked with its front nearest the curb.
(Ord. 102-1975, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 121-1983, passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see
§
72.99
SCHEDULE III. CROSSWALKS AND RESERVED PARKING.
   (A)   Starting from the entrance to the Empire Café parking lot on the south
side of Main Street for a distance of approximately 37 feet to a PP&L power
pole numbered 69239/S52294. This area of 37 feet by about seven feet four
inches will be provide 15 minutes parking for two cars exclusively for Empire
Café customers;
   (B)   From the end of this area for the Empire Café customer parking for a
distance of seven feet in an easterly direction for a crosswalk across Main
Street;
   (C)   From the end of the no parking area for a distance along the west side
of Bushkill Street of 18 feet for a single parking area for cars only for
Tatamy Deli customers;
   (D)   From the end of this parking area along the west side of Bushkill
Street for a distance of seven feet for a crosswalk across Bushkill Street; and
   (E)   From the end of the crosswalk area along the west side of Bushkill
Street for a single parking area of 17 feet for Tatamy Deli car only customers
to the entrance of the Tatamy Deli parking lot.
(Ord. 219-2006, passed 7-3-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS, RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE PLAN
      
93.   OPEN BURNING AND OUTDOOR SOLID FUEL BURNING APPLIANCES
      
94.   KEY LOCK BOXES
      
95.   TREES AND VEGETATION ALONG RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
96.   NOISE CONTROL
      
97.   FIREWORKS PERMIT AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dog license, collar and tag required
   
90.03   Vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies required
   
90.04   Permitting animals to trespass, at large animals prohibited
   
90.05   Clean up of animal fecal matter
   
90.06   Violation of state law
Chickens
   
90.20   Purpose
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   General rule
   
90.23   Powers and duties of the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer
   
90.24   Permits
   
90.25   Limits on chicken keeping
   
90.26   Application submission
   
90.27   Notice of violation
   
90.28   Right to appeal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in any dog or cat or having
custody of any dog or cat, or any person who harbors or permits a dog or cat to
remain on or around his or her property.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Being upon any public highway, street, alley, park or any
other public land, or upon property of another person other than the owner, and
not be accompanied by and under the control by way of a leash, rope, chain or
other physical instrument connecting the animal to the owner or any other
person having custody of said dog or cat.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990)
§ 90.02 DOG LICENSE, COLLAR AND TAG REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor within the borough, any dog six months
or older unless such animal is licensed by the Treasurer of the county, and
unless such dog wears a collar and license tag. This provision is not intended
to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents and temporarily in the borough
nor to any “seeing-eye” dog or dog properly trained to assist blind persons or
hearing impaired persons when such dog is actually used by a blind person or a
hearing impaired person for the purpose of going from place to place.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog or cat to
keep, harbor or have in custody or control a dog or cat six months or older for
longer than 14 days, unless such dog and cat has a current vaccination against
rabies with a vaccine listed in the current compendium of animal rabies vaccine
as approved by the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians.
Proof of vaccination shall be furnished at the request of any public health
official or borough police officer.
   (B)   Any dog or cat who is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by an
animal suspected of rabies shall be confined by a lease or chain on the
premises of the owner and shall be placed under the observation of a
veterinarian at the expense of the owner for a period of two weeks. The owner
shall notify the impounding officer of the fact that his or her animal has been
exposed to rabies. At his or her discretion, the impounding officer is
empowered to have such animal removed from the owner’s premises to a veterinary
hospital and there placed under the observation of a veterinarian for a period
of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
   (C)   No person, knowing or suspecting that his or her dog or cat has
rabies, shall allow such animal to be taken off his or her premises or beyond
the limits of the borough without the written permission of the impounding
officer. Every person owning or harboring an animal, upon ascertaining the
animal to have rabies, shall immediately notify the impounding officer or a
police officer, who shall either remove the animal to the pound or summarily
destroy it.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PERMITTING ANIMALS TO TRESPASS, AT LARGE ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner, possessor or manager of any cat or dog shall not permit the
same to trespass upon the premises of another property owner without prior
permission or he or she shall be in violation of this chapter and shall have
the burden of proving permission to trespass was granted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow or
permit such dog or cat to run at large in the borough.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the impounding officer, and every police
officer of the borough to seize and detain any dogs, licensed or unlicensed,
and any cat found running at large, either upon the public street or highways
of the borough or upon the property of another person, and unaccompanied by its
owner or a keeper. The impounding officer, and any police officer of the
borough, are authorized or empowered to go upon any premises and to enter any
building to seize and detain any dog or cat which has been running at large
unaccompanied by an owner or keeper when such impounding officer of police
officer is in immediate pursuit of such dog or cat.
   (D)   If the owner or custodian of the animal can be ascertained and
located, a summons may be issued and the animal may, in lieu of impoundment, be
released to its owner or custodian. However, within 72 hours of the release of
the animal, the owner must present the borough official with a valid rabies
certificate or surrender the animal to the borough official.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CLEAN UP OF ANIMAL FECAL MATTER.
   (A)   No owner of any animal or other person having the care, custody and
control of any animal shall permit the same to discharge or deposit any fecal
matter upon the property of another without immediately removing such matter
and disposing of it in a sanitary manner. The term PROPERTY OF ANOTHER shall be
interpreted to include the property of the borough or any other political
subdivision.
   (B)   No owner or possessor of real property shall permit animal fecal
matter to accumulate on such property for more the 24 hours and it shall be the
responsibility of the owner or possessor to daily remove such matter to prevent
any accumulation from becoming a danger to public health.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VIOLATION OF STATE LAW.
   Any violation of this chapter which also violates any state law may be
prosecuted under that state law and not the chapter.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990)
CHICKENS
§ 90.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
keeping of domesticated chickens. This subchapter enables residents to keep
domesticated chickens for non-commercial uses while limiting the adverse
effects of the activity on the surrounding properties.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANTAM CHICKEN. A smaller breed of chicken than "gallus domesticus"
chickens.
   CHICKEN. Female poultry or fowl that is a member of the species "gallus
domesticus."
   CHICKEN COOP. See HEN HOUSE.
   CHICKEN PEN. See CHICKEN RUN.
   CHICKEN RUN. A fenced-in or other type of enclosure that is mostly open to
the elements, for the purpose of allowing chickens to leave the hen house or
coop while remaining in a predator-safe environment. The chicken run or pen is
attached to the hen house and/or chicken coop.
   DOMESTICATED CHICKEN. See CHICKEN.
   FLOCK. The group of chickens held at each property. Each individual property
shall be considered its own FLOCK.
   HEN. See CHICKEN.
   HENHOUSE. A structure providing shelter for chickens which is completely
enclosed and predator resistant that is thoroughly ventilated, provides
adequate sun light and shade and all-season protection from the elements,
designed to be easily accessed and cleaned by the owner.
   ROOSTER. Male poultry or fowl.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.22 GENERAL RULE.
   The keeping of chickens in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter
shall be permitted in the Borough of Tatamy. This subchapter enables residents
to keep chickens on a non-commercial basis while limiting the adverse effects
of the activity to the surrounding properties.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.23 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ZONING/CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer shall have the power to review or
cause to be reviewed each application for a permit and may either approve or
reject such application or require modification of the application. When the
Officer has approved the application, he/she shall issue the permit pursuant to
the procedures of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the conditions presented by the application for a permit or for
renewal of a permit constitute an actual or potential public nuisance and/or a
hazard and/or a danger to the public health, safety and welfare, the
application for a permit or for renewal of a permit shall be denied by the
Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer, Police Officers or such other
designated surrogate as appointed by the Borough of Tatamy administration, are
authorized to inspect any property with reasonable notice to the owner, to
ensure continued compliance with this subchapter pertaining, but not limited to
the following:
      (1)   Odor emanating from the premises to persons and placed off the
premises.
      (2)   Noise emanating or likely to emanate from the premises to persons
and placed off the premises.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.24 PERMITS.
   (A)   Application. An applicant must submit a completed application provided
by the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer and pay all fees as per the Borough's
Schedule of Fees.
   (B)   A complete application shall include:
      (1)   Proof that the applicant is the owner of the property or has
express written permission from the owner of the property.
      (2)   A drawn site plan showing the proposed locations, measurements and
footprints of the proposed chicken coop and runs, as well as all existing
structures on the property and the location of adjacent homes or in the event
there are no adjacent homes, structures on adjacent properties.
      (3)   A drawn to scale plan that shows elevations and floor plans of the
proposed chicken coop and run along with labeling of the proposed building
materials. Photographs may be submitted at the discretion of the applicant.
      (4)   All applications shall be submitted to the Zoning/Code Enforcement
Officer, or such other designated surrogate as appointed by the Borough of
Tatamy Council.
   (C)   In addition to the required application information, the Zoning/Code
Enforcement Officer shall consider all other relevant conditions, and may
independently investigate and/or require the applicant to submit additional
information in writing, verified by statement of facts, concerning but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   The odor emanating or likely to emanate from the premises to
persons and places off the premises.
      (2)   The noise emanating or likely to emanate from the premises to
persons and places off the premises.
   (D)   Issuance of permit. If an applicant has met all application
conditions, and the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer is satisfied with the
conditions detailed in §
90.23, the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the permit.
   (E)   Renewal.
      (1)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire two years
after the date of issuance but may be renewed in accordance with the terms of
this section.
      (2)   So long as a permit holder has not violated any section of this
subchapter, a permit may be renewed upon payment of the renewal fee as
established by the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer or the Schedule of Fees.
      (3)   In the event permit holder has been cited for violating any section
of this subchapter, any renewal applications shall not be approved by the
Borough of Tatamy Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer.
   (F)   Suspension, revocation, and non-renewal of permit.
      (1)   The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer shall also have the power, with
the consent of the Borough Council, to make such rules and regulations as he/
she shall deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. The
Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer and/or Police Officers shall be responsible to
determine whether any person is violating any provisions of this subchapter. In
making such determinations as to whether to approve or reject an application
for a permit or an application for renewal of a permit, the Zoning/Code
Enforcement Officer and/or Police Officers shall consider whether any one or
more of the following approved standards are not complied with. The failure of
the applicant to comply with or satisfy any one or more of the requirements of
this subchapter or to satisfy any one or more of the following approved
standards shall constitute grounds for denial of the application as a public
nuisance:
         (a)   All animals and animal quarters shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. Adequate ventilation shall be maintained.
         (b)   The permittee shall use every reasonable precaution to assure
that the animals are not teased, abused, mistreated, annoyed, tormented or in
any manner made to suffer by any means.
         (c)   The permittee shall maintain the premises so to eliminate
offensive odors or excessive noise.
         (d)   The permitted shall not permit any condition causing disturbance
of the peace and quiet of his/her neighbors.
         (e)   Animals must be maintained in quarters constructed so as to
prevent their escape. The permittee assumes full responsibility for recapturing
any animal that escapes from his/her premises. The permittee shall make
adequate provisions and safeguards to protect the public from the animals.
         (f)   Every person shall conform to all present and future laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United States of America, the ordinances
of the Borough of Tatamy and the rules and regulations that may accompany this
chapter in any way connected with animals, specifically including anti-cruelty
laws.
         (g)   All animals must be kept healthy and free from sickness and
disease and have all the required vaccinations and regular health check-ups.
         (h)   Every owner and occupant of a structure or property shall be
responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents, vermin, or other pests
in all areas of the premises.
      (2)   Notification of revocation.
         (a)   Revocation, suspension, or denial of a renewal of a permit shall
be in writing and delivered in at least one of the following manners:
            1.   By First Class Mail;
            2.   In person to the address indicated on the application; or
            3.   Presented by hand delivery to the applicant or permit holder
at a location other than the address indicated on the application or permit.
         (b)   The notification shall specify reasons for the revocation,
suspension, denial of a permit, or denial of a renewal of a permit.
   (G)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions providing for the care of chickens under this
subchapter shall not apply to lots that are two acres or greater that are
located in the Borough if agricultural uses area permitted use in the future.
      (2)   Structure requirements.
         (a)   Enclosed structures. Chickens raised pursuant to this subchapter
shall be kept in a chicken coop and run. No chicken shall be permitted to roam
freely outside of the chicken run.
         (b)   The uses provided for in this subchapter shall be allowed within
all residential zones. This subchapter shall only apply to single family homes
and side-by-side homes.
      (3)   Noncommercial use. The keeping of chickens under this subchapter
shall be for noncommercial uses only. A permittee may not engage in commercial:
         (a)   Chicken breeding;
         (b)   Sale of chickens;
         (c)   Egg producing; or
         (d)   Fertilizer production.
      (4)   Fees. All fees referenced in this section shall be set by
resolution or the Borough's Schedule of Fees approved by Borough of Tatamy
Council. In the event Borough Council has not passed a resolution, the permit
fee shall be $150.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.25 LIMITS ON CHICKEN KEEPING.
   (A)   No roosters. Only hens shall be allowed within the Borough of Tatamy.
   (B)   Number of chickens.
      (1)   A maximum of six chickens shall be permitted per property.
      (2)   In the event 50% or more of the flock is made up of bantam
chickens, a collective maximum of ten chickens shall be permitted per property.
   (C)   Distance. A chicken coop and run shall be located in the rear yard of
a property. The chicken coop and run must be a minimum of ten feet from
structures with habitable space on all adjacent properties.
      (1)   A chicken coop and run must be at least 25 feet from any street.
      (2)   A chicken coop and run may not be closer than five feet from any
property line.
   (D)   The footprint of a chicken coop and enclosed run shall not exceed 100
square feet. The maximum height of the coop shall be eight feet. A chicken coop
shall have either a raised floor of at least 18 inches above ground level, or
it must incorporate a mesh apron buried around the perimeter of the coop or
run, with hardware cloth with no more than one-half inch openings to prevent
wildlife intrusion.
      (1)   A chicken coop shall provide no less than one square foot per
chicken.
      (2)   A chicken run will provide no less than four square feet per
chicken.
      (3)   All chicken coops are required to have a chicken run.
   (E)   No slaughtering of chickens is allowed.
   (F)   Chicken coops and runs shall be maintained in a clean fashion to
prevent odors and chicken manure shall be removed unless used for composting.
   (G)   Chickens shall have access to feed and clean water at all times, as
well as shade during daylight hours. Owners should store all feed supplies in
rodent-proof containers. Chickens shall be enclosed in a secure coop from dusk
until dawn.
   (H)   Nuisance conditions.
      (1)   Nuisance conditions are not allowed. Nuisance conditions include,
but in no way are limited to, foul smells, flies, vermin, and excessive noise.
      (2)   Chicken coops and runs shall be maintained in a clean fashion to
prevent odors. Chicken manure shall be removed unless used for composting
purposes. The owner should dispose of waste material (feed, manure, and litter)
in an environmentally responsible manner. In the event of composting, the
chicken manure must be maintained in such a way that no nuisance is caused.
      (3)   At the discretion of the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer or Police
Officers or the assigned official, the finding of nuisance conditions may
result in the forfeiture of a property's chickens.
   (I)   Number of permits granted. The borough will grant up to five permits
the first year after adopting said ordinance. The borough will grant up to ten
additional permits during the second year after adoption of said ordinance. The
borough will grant up to additional permits each year after the third year of
adoption of said ordinance. The borough reserves the right to stop granting
permits if the keeping of chickens becomes a nuisance to the Borough of Tatamy.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.26 APPLICATION SUBMISSION.
   All backyard chicken uses, and facilities shall require a permit from the
Zoning Officer or surrogate as designated by the Borough of Tatamy Council.
This permit shall only be issued after the backyard chicken application has
been approved in accordance with this subchapter and shall specify any terms or
conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.27 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If it appears to the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer/Police Officers that a
violation of this subchapter has or is occurring, the Zoning/Code Enforcement
Officer/Police Officers shall send a written notice of violation to the license
holder by personal delivery or by United States first-class and certified mail.
The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer/Police Officers shall enumerate the
conditions which constitute the violation, cite the specific sections of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.28 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event that a permit is revoked, due to a violation, the permit
has the right to appeal the revocation.
   (B)   The Tatamy Borough Zoning Hearing Board will hear the Appeal Process.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a Zoning Hearing Appeal Application to
the Zoning Officer or the Tatamy Borough Office.
      (2)   The applicant must pay the Zoning Hearing fee as set by the Tatamy
Borough Schedule of Fees.
(Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.02 shall be fined not more than $100 and in default of payment of fines and
costs, imprisoned not more than 90 days. Each day’s violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.03 shall be fined not more than $100 and in default of payment of fines and
costs, imprisoned not more than 90 days. Each day’s violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.04 shall be fined $50 for the first violation and $100 for each successive
violation.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.05 shall be fined $25. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (F)   (1)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity who in
which violates or permits a violation of the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.28 shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First violation a fine of $250.
         (b)   Second violation a fine of $500.
         (c)   Third violation a fine of $750.
         (d)   Fourth and each subsequent violation a fine of $1,000.
         (e)   Each day's failure to comply with any provision of this §§
90.20 through
90.28 shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer may revoke any license
hereunder, or deny any application to renew, upon the finding of a violation of
§§
90.20 through
90.28.
      (3)   The Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer/Police Offers/any surrogate
appointee by the Borough Council or Borough Council may revoke any permit if
the keeping of backyard chickens attracts wildlife to the premises of the
permittee's property or if the permittee's property is not well kept and is not
free of odors and is unsanitary.
      (4)   All fines, penalties, and costs collected for violations of §§
90.20 through
90.28 shall be paid to the Borough of Tatamy for its routine use.
(Ord. 150-1990, passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 293-2022, passed 1-9-2023)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Accumulations of Objects or Substances on the Exterior of Real Property
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited acts
   
91.03   Exclusions
   
91.04   Enforcement
   
91.05   Nuisance
Leaves, Debris, Refuse and Litter
   
91.20   Depositing prohibited
Collection and Disposal of Mud, Debris and Litter
   
91.35   Definition
   
91.36   Responsibility
Weeds, Grass and Other Vegetation
   
91.50   Prohibition
   
91.51   Owner’s duties
   
91.52   Notice
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ACCUMULATIONS OF OBJECTS OR SUBSTANCES ON THE EXTERIOR OF REAL PROPERTY
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, located in Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
   ENCLOSED PORCH, DECK, PATIO, BALCONY. A platform located at and attached to
or abutting against any entrance to a residential building, the contents of
which are visible from any public street.
   JUNK. Worn out or discarded material of little or no value including, but
not limited to, household appliances or parts thereof, tools, discarded
building materials or any other unsightly debris, any old, unused, stripped,
junked machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind
which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured; the accumulation of which has an adverse effect upon neighborhood
or health, safety or general welfare.
   OPEN STORAGE. Such storage or accumulation that is visible from any public
street, alley, sidewalk or any adjacent property.
   OWNER. Any individual, corporation, estate, partnership or any other person
or entity having a legal or equitable interest in a property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or entity of
any other kind, including any tenant or lessee of any real property.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of land to which a single account number has been
assigned by the Tax Assessment Department of the county.
   YARD. Any open unoccupied space, other than a courtyard, unobstructed from
the ground or top of any fence to the sky, or on a lot upon which a residential
building is situated.
(Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person, within or upon any property situated within the municipal limits
of the borough, shall store, collect, park, leave, deposit, maintain, reserve,
put aside for future use, permit or allow to remain on any porch, balcony,
roof, patio or yard of any residential building or accessory structure, other
than in a completely enclosed building or structure, any of the following:
   (A)   Junk, rubbish, clutter, litter, debris, disabled automobiles, other
motor vehicles or motorized equipment, implements or machinery or any component
parts or accessories thereof, household appliances or any component parts or
accessories thereof;
   (B)   Lumber or other building materials or equipment, except for those
materials or equipment related to projects for which a current valid building
permit has been issued. Building materials shall include, but are not
necessarily limited to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts, shingles, mortar,
concrete or cement, nails, screws or any other materials or equipment generally
used in construction; and
   (C)   Upholstered furniture, mattresses, materials and other similar
products or secondhand items or goods not normally intended, designed, built or
manufactured for outdoor use unless such is located entirely within an enclosed
porch, balcony, deck or patio attached to the primary residential building and
are unobservable from the street, alley, sidewalk or adjoining property.
(Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the storage or
placement upon any property of the following materials:
   (A)   Firewood intended for consumption in a wood burning stove, furnace, or
indoor fireplace or outdoor patio fireplace located within or without a
building located upon the subject premises, provided that all such firewood
shall, at all times, be neatly stacked and stored in an appropriate place;
   (B)   Lawn, yard, garden or playground tools, ornaments, equipment or
implements actually used consistently for its intended purpose by the residents
of the property;
   (C)   Lawn or patio furniture, in good and working order and condition;
   (D)   Materials used in connection with commercial activities conducted upon
the premises where such storage, placement and accumulation of materials have
been expressly authorized by the borough;
   (E)   Construction materials and equipment used for the construction,
renovation or razing of a building located upon the premises for which a
current building or razing permit has been issued; and
   (F)   Antique or vintage automobiles undergoing restoration provided that
such work is actually being done. This activity shall be limited to the
driveway serving the property and shall be covered by a tarp when no work is
being done. No more than one such vehicle may be stored in the driveway under
this division (F).
(Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
§ 91.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement and inspection officer for purposes of this subchapter shall
be Borough Police Department.
   (A)   The police are authorized to call upon the Code Enforcement Officer,
Solicitor or other employee of the borough to assist in determining a violation
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The police are authorized to conduct any and all reasonable or
necessary inspections whether such inspection arise from:
      (1)   A citizen complaint filed with the Police Department; or
      (2)   Noncompliance with the provisions of this subchapter as observed by
the officer during the course of any general duties within the borough.
   (C)   The police are further authorized to issue and cause to be served or
mailed, written notices to any property owner whose property is deemed by the
officer to violate the provisions of this subchapter. Any such written notice
shall specifically identify all violations arising under this subchapter and
the steps necessary to bring the property into full compliance herewith. Such
notices shall provide the owner of any offending property, with 15 days from
acceptance of service or certified receipt of any mailed notice, the
opportunity to bring his or her property into compliance with this subchapter.
If a notice was issued, then prior to the issuance of any citation and
prosecution for a violation of this subchapter, the police or their designee
shall conduct a second inspection to determine if the offending property has
been brought into full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Any person may file a complaint with the police alleging that a
violation of this subchapter has occurred or is occurring. The police shall
promptly investigate all complaints. Following the conducting of an inspection
and upon determining that a violation of this subchapter has occurred, the
police shall issue a notice of violation and compliance to the owner and said
notice shall either be personally served by the officer or mailed to the owner
by certified mail return receipt requested.
   (E)   The written notice prepared by the police shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the titled owner and occupant or tenant, if the
occupant or tenant is different from the titled owner to whom the notice shall
be addressed;
      (2)   The address and location of the violating property;
      (3)   A statement setting forth all specific violations of this
subchapter;
      (4)   A demand that corrective action be taken by the property owner
within 15 days following service or other receipt of the written notice;
      (5)   A statement that failure to comply with the notice shall:
         (a)   Result in the issuance of a citation and upon finding of guilt,
the imposition of a fine against the violating property owner; and
         (b)   Result in the borough’s remedy and immediate removal of the
violating conditions on the subject property with the costs thereof, together
with attorney fees if required, subject to collection by the borough in a civil
action or the entry of a municipal lien against the offending property.
      (6)   Enclose a copy of this subchapter.
(Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
§ 91.05 NUISANCE.
   In addition to any other remedies provided herein the borough may bring an
appropriate action before the court of common pleas to restrain further
violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
LEAVES, DEBRIS, REFUSE AND LITTER
§ 91.20 DEPOSITING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to scatter, dump, sweep, or in any way, deposit leaves,
refuse, dirt or any other substance, upon streets, alleys, thoroughfares and
into sewer and stormwater drains or outlets.
(Ord. 187, passed 3-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF MUD, DEBRIS AND LITTER
§ 91.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural; the plural shall include the singular; and
the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, partnership, association, firm or
corporation.
(Ord. 136-1988, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 91.36 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of any person constructing or renovating any
structure in the borough to be responsible for removing all mud and debris from
all vehicles and equipment prior to leaving the construction site and entering
onto borough streets, and containing all litter and debris on the construction
site. Any person failing to comply with any written notice, within a 24-hour
period, shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter and, following the
expiration of such time limit, the borough shall have the authority to cause
the work required by such notice to be done by the municipality or under
contract therewith, and to collect the cost of such work, with an additional
amount of 10% for administrative expense.
(Ord. 136-1988, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS, GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 91.50 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm or corporation, owning or occupying any property within the
borough shall permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation whatsoever, not
edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to grow or remain upon
such premises so as to exceed a height of six inches or to throw off any
unpleasant or noxious odor or to conceal any filthy deposit or to create or
produce pollen. Any grass, weeds or other vegetation growing upon any premises
in the borough in violation of any of the provisions of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness
and comfort of the inhabitants of the borough. Likewise, no person, firm or
corporation, owning or occupying any property within the borough shall permit
any tree to grow to such a height or circumference so as to impede, touch or
interfere with in any way the passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
adjoining the tree.
(Ord. 19-1958, passed 4-7-1958) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 OWNER’S DUTIES.
   The owner of any premises, as to vacant premises or premises occupied by the
owner, and the occupant thereof, in case of premises occupied by other than the
owner thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation
growing or remaining upon such premises in violation of the provisions of §
91.50.
(Ord. 19-1958, passed 4-7-1958)
§ 91.52 NOTICE.
   The Borough Council, or any officer or employee of the borough designated
thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal
service or United States certified or registered mail, to the owner or
occupant, as the case may be, of any premises whereon grass, weeds or other
vegetation is growing or remaining in violation of this subchapter. Such notice
shall be deemed or construed to be a continuing notice and once given during a
calendar year to any owner or occupant shall be notice under this subchapter
for any subsequent violations during said calendar year. The owner or occupant,
upon receipt of such notice via registered or certified mail, shall have a
period of five days to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. In case
any person, firm or corporation shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with
such notice, within the period of time stated therein, the borough authorities
may remove, trim or cut such grass, weeds or vegetation, and the cost thereof,
together with any additional penalty authorized by the law, may be collected by
the borough from such person, firm or corporation in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 19-1958, passed 4-7-1958; Ord. 53-1968, passed 3-4-1968)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.05 shall, upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before a district
judge, be subject to a fine not in excess of $100 for the first offense, $200
for the second offense and $300 for any subsequent offense in any calendar
year. Every day the violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate
violation of §§
91.01 through
91.05.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties set forth in division (B)(1) above, if
any owner fails or refuses to remedy the condition within 15 days following
service or other receipt of the written notice, the Borough Police Department,
upon the Code Enforcement Officer’s confirmation of default by the owner, may
cause the condition to be remedied or removed and collect the cost thereof, and
the actual cost of such proceeding including attorney fees, from the owner by a
civil action or the cost of removal may be entered as a lien against such
property in accordance with existing provisions of law. In the exercise of the
powers herein conferred, the borough may institute proceedings in courts of
equity.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
91.20 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300, and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
91.35 and
91.36 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300, and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate or fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.50 through
91.52, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 and cost of prosecution; provided, each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense and notice to the offender shall not be necessary
in order to constitute an offense.
(Ord. 19-1958, passed 4-7-1958; Ord. 136-1988, passed 5-2-1988; Ord. 187,
passed 3-6-2000; Ord. 267-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS, RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Mission
   
92.002   Mission statement
   
92.003   Goals
   
92.004   Definitions
   
92.005   Direction; goals of this plan
Recreation Programs
   
92.020   Recreation programs
   
92.021   Existing recreational programs
   
92.022   Recommended programs
Recreation Facilities and Parks Plan
   
92.035   Recreation facilities plan
   
92.036   Existing recreation facilities
   
92.037   Facility needs and requests
   
92.038   Recommendations for specific types of facilities
   
92.039   Development regulations
   
92.040   Proposed recreation improvements
Open Space Preservation Plan
   
92.055   Importance of open spaces
   
92.056   Land preservation methods
   
92.057   Development regulations
   
92.058   Acquisition of open space
   
92.059   Trails
   
92.060   Important natural features
   
92.061   Guideline for protecting important natural features
Putting this Plan into Action
   
92.075   Administration
   
92.076   Security
   
92.077   Park design and engineering
   
92.078   Financing
   
92.079   Maintenance
   
92.080   Communication with the public
   
92.081   Safety and liability
   
92.082   Volunteers
   
92.083   Continuing planning
   
92.084   Tools to carry out the plan
   
Appendix A: Official map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 MISSION.
   (A)   To be successful in planning for enhanced and new recreation
facilities, parks, open space and trails in the borough, it is important to
establish the mission of the recreation planners in the borough and develop a
vision of what these elements will be like in the future. The borough’s
recreation planners will be able to communicate to governing bodies, planning
commissions, municipal staffs and the general public what the purpose for
recreation planning is (the mission), where it wants to go (the vision) and how
it can get there (goals) accomplished through recommendations and
implementation strategies. This process is important to developing support for
new programs, special events and facilities.
   (B)   The Borough Recreation Committee developed the following mission
statement.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.002 MISSION STATEMENT.
   The borough will continue to cooperate in the planning and implementation of
park, recreation and trail facilities in the borough and provide the recreation
facilities throughout the borough that are linked by a rails-to-trails system.
Open space is protected and preserved. Enhanced pedestrian and bicycle
facilities are available to the borough’s residents, handicapped facilities
will be integrated into the plan and a plan for a future community center will
be the key aspects in providing recreation to residents of all ages. The
municipality will partner with the private sector and community groups as well
as local municipalities, county and state government to provide outstanding
opportunities to the borough’s residents.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.003 GOALS.
   (A)   The plan is intended to be a “living document”. Its goals should serve
as a guide for elected and appointed officials, community groups and citizens
regarding parks, recreation, trails, and open space in future discussions and
decision-making.
   (B)   The following goals have been established for this plan:
      (1)   Open space, Provide for open space within the region through the
preservation of natural resources, the development and retention of recreation
areas and parks, and the preservation of green infrastructure;
      (2)   Natural and scenic resources. Protect and preserve the natural and
scenic resources and beauty of the region, including woodlands, open space,
stream corridors and viewsheds;
      (3)   Recreation programs. Provide recreation activities and programs
that will enrich the quality of life for citizens, in cooperation with local
recreation providers;
      (4)   Administration. Provide an organized framework for the planning,
management and maintenance of facilities and programs and distribution of
information on recreation opportunities;
      (5)   Financing. Provide funding to meet the facility and program goals
utilizing a variety of funding opportunities; and
      (6)   Greenways and trails. Link recreation facilities, open space parks
and community destinations through a system of greenways, trails and sidewalks.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION PLAN. A plan that summarizes the many recommendations for activities
and projects resulting from community input.
   ACTIVE RECREATION. Recreation facilities programmable for organized
activities such as ball fields, basketball courts and soccer fields.
   CONSERVATION AREA. Environmentally sensitive areas with characteristics such
as steep slopes, wetlands, floodplains, high water tables, forest areas,
endangered species habitat, or areas of significant biological productivity or
uniqueness that have been designated for protection from any activity that
would significantly alter their ecological integrity, balance or character.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas that contain native vegetation and
natural features and/or natural resources.
   FLOODPLAIN. A relatively flat or lowland area which is subject to partial or
complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or watercourse;
and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface waters
from any source.
   GREENWAYS. Contiguous parcels of land that connects wild life habitat,
stream buffers and passive recreation areas.
   MPC. The Municipalities Planning Code, 52 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   NATURAL AREA. A preservation of land for providing wildlife habitats,
forests or scenic natural features that involves no buildings other than a
nature education and/or study center.
   OFFICIAL MAP. Any official map that may be adopted or amended by the Council
of the borough in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code.
   OPEN SPACE. The area of a tract of land unoccupied by principal or accessory
structures, streets, driveways or parking areas; but includes areas occupied by
walkways, playgrounds, outdoor recreation or play apparatus, gardens or trees.
   PASSIVE RECREATION. Recreation facilities programmable for non-organized
activities such as walking, picnicking, biking and the like.
   RECHARGE AREAS. Open space that allows stormwater to infiltrate into the
ground water table.
   RIPARIAN BUFFER ZONE. The land area along waterways and wetlands providing
shade and habitat that provide erosion prevention and the absorption of
stormwater pollutants.
   SALDO. The subdivision and land development ordinance (Chapter 154 of this
code of ordinances) guides and controls the layout of streets, lots and
utilities. The requirements within this chapter for developers to dedicate
recreation land or fees and to possibly construct bicycle paths in certain
areas are discussed, in §§
92.055 through
92.061.
   STEEP SLOPES. Those areas having slopes of 15% or more.
   VIEWSHED. An area of land, water or other environmental element that is
visible to the human eye from a fixed vantage point. The term is used widely in
such areas as urban planning, archaeology and military science. In urban
planning, for example, VIEWSHEDS tend to be areas of particular scenic or
historic value that are deemed worthy of preservation against development or
other change. VIEWSHEDS are often spaces that are readily visible from public
areas such as from public roadways, public parks or high-rise buildings. The
preservation of VIEWSHEDS is frequently a goal in the designation of open space
areas, greenbelts and community separators.
   WATERWAYS. Lakes, streams, creeks and rivers.
   WETLANDS. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs
and similar areas.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The borough zoning ordinance is the main legal tool for
regulating uses of land, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.005 DIRECTION; GOALS OF THIS PLAN.
   As part of this planning program, the following major goals were established
to provide the overall guidance and direction for the plan.
   (A)   Recreation programs goals. Establish a youth athletic program, while
seeking expanded programs for other age groups and the handicapped. Promoting
interaction between residents of the borough to build new relationships within
and across all age groups.
   (B)   Recreation facilities goals.
      (1)   Provide adequate opportunities for both active and passive
recreation, with adequate distribution throughout the township;
      (2)   Plan for major community parks emphasizing active, programmed
recreation and several well-distributed smaller neighborhood parks emphasizing
more informal recreation;
      (3)   Plan development patterns and road improvements that promote
bicycle and pedestrian circulation; and
      (4)   Plan for a Community Center for recreational purposes.
   (C)   Goals to put this plan into action.
      (1)   Cooperation and good communications with neighboring
municipalities, the Nazareth Athletic Association, other recreation groups, the
Nazareth Area School District and the Bushkill Stream Conservancy to carry out
this plan; and
      (2)   Carry out this plan through continuous program of citizen
involvement, planning and action.
   (D)   Open space/conservation goals.
      (1)   Use creative means of preserving wooded areas and land along the
waterways;
      (2)   Locate and design recreational areas to make them safe and secure
against crime and vandalism, and include native plants and “no mow” zones to
reduce maintenance;
      (3)   Ensure that all development respects the natural features of the
land, especially the waterways, wetlands, flood prone areas, wooded areas and
steep sloped lands; and
      (4)   Preserve lands that are physically unsuited for development in
public, homeowner association or private open space. This especially includes
areas along the Bushkill Creek.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
RECREATION PROGRAMS
§ 92.020 RECREATION PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Before a community decides what recreation facilities it needs, it is
essential to plan what types of recreation programs should be offered by both
the community and local organizations. Everyone in every community needs to
keep in mind that “recreation is more than ball fields”.
   (B)   Recreation programs include not only competitive athletic programs for
young people, but also leisure programs for persons of all ages.
   (C)   (1)   Recreation programs are extremely important to help people make
the most worthwhile and enjoyable use of their leisure time.
      (2)   These are many of the major values of recreation and leisure
programs:
         (a)   Promoting physical fitness and health;
         (b)   Developing the spirit of teamwork and fair play;
         (c)   Building feelings of accomplishment, self-fulfillment and self-
expression;
         (d)   Offering worthwhile uses of leisure time that provide long-term
satisfaction;
         (e)   Developing useful skills, mental abilities and creativity;
         (f)   Providing enjoyable social experiences;
         (g)   Promoting wholesome activities for youth;
         (h)   Allowing opportunities for people to learn to relate to
different types of people; and
         (i)   Encouraging the best possible use of available recreation
facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.021 EXISTING RECREATIONAL PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Baseball ages 6 to 15 Nazareth Midget Baseball Nazareth, Pennsylvania
(use our facilities);
   (B)   Softball ages 6 to 15 Clippers Softball Upper Nazareth, Pennsylvania;
and
   (C)   Athletics offered by the Nazareth Area School District
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.022 RECOMMENDED PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The vast majority of needed recreation programs can probably best be
carried out by providing adequate land and facilities at cost or for free for
nonprofit recreational and leisure groups, leagues and clubs.
   (B)   It is important that recreation programs serve persons of all age
groups one needs.
   (C)   Certain additional programs should be considered by the Borough
Council or other groups as the borough’s population and facilities expand,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Summer playground program. Programs geared towards ages 5 to 15,
arts and crafts, games, picnics and the like;
      (2)   Nature education program. Programs geared towards all ages, but
especially young teenagers, should be in place to make people more aware of
nature. This should include interpretative walks, self-guided walks, displays
and trips. Portions of this program might best be conducted along borough bike/
walking trails and waterways and other natural areas. The Bushkill Stream
Conservancy, and other area organizations that provide local nature education
programs should be contacted to seek their participation;
      (3)   Special events. Certain additional special events could be
sponsored such as an outdoor concert during the summer, with families
encouraged to bring a picnic lunch. Ideas concerning a possible outdoor
amphitheater are discussed in §§
92.035 through
92.040;
      (4)   Outdoor volleyball teams. This should emphasize play by
participants of all ages. The program preferably should be separated into teams
at two or three different skills levels;
      (5)   Aerobics and fitness classes. These could be designed to be self-
supporting, with the borough’s role mainly to provide adequate space, choosing
qualified instructors, and helping with publicity. The instructors could be in
charge of administering the program;
      (6)   Races. An annual race for runners and joggers along rural roads in
the borough and/or the borough bike/walking trail. One race could be intended
to be longer and more competitive, while another could be shorter and intended
for a wider variety of persons, especially senior citizens and children. A non-
competitive bicycling event should also be considered. These could be in
conjunction with surrounding municipalities now that trails are connected;
      (7)   Senior programs. In cooperation with the area senior citizen
organizations, the borough should conduct programs aimed directly towards the
interests of senior citizens. This could include arts and crafts, senior
fitness classes, horticulture classes and the like;
      (8)   Special interests. Hobbies, clubs, collector groups, chess, games,
gardening, foreign languages and ethnic/healthy cooking;
      (9)   Possible community center activities. Social activities and events:
         (a)   Card club;
         (b)   Youth theater;
         (c)   Youth dances;
         (d)   Adult dances;
         (e)   Square dancing;
         (f)   Provide off-site meeting location for area businesses;
         (g)   Hobby seminars;
         (h)   Special interests: hobbies; clubs; collector groups; chess;
games; gardening; foreign languages; and cooking;
         (i)   Space for organizations to conduct meetings;
         (j)   Organized after-school programs for youth;
         (k)   Space for birthday parties, showers, family gatherings;
         (l)   Arts and crafts;
         (m)   Fitness programs geared toward individuals, teams and families;
         (n)   Public interest seminars such as travel seminars, job fairs,
financial planning, higher education, electronics/computer such as organizing
documents and password and the like;
         (o)   Clinics/camps for various sports;
         (p)   Basketball, volleyball and the like;
         (q)   Civic events such as tree lighting, Memorial Day service,
fundraisers, food, clothing and blood drives;
         (r)   Emergency/disaster location if necessary which will reduce the
impact to the public school system should a disaster occur;
         (s)   Aerobics classes scheduled to the level and convenience of
various age groups;
         (t)   Basketball and volleyball leagues and instructional classes for
beginners;
         (u)   Public speaker forums; and
         (v)   Activities to be coordinated by a professional staff.
      (10)   Health related programs.
         (a)   Health education classes in conjunction with area hospitals
presented by physicians or qualified healthcare professionals such as
Llantrisant Retreat and Wellness Center, such as reducing stress, healthy
eating and the like;
         (b)   Conduct prepared childbirth classes; and
         (c)   Community health fairs with participation of local healthcare
providers.
   (D)   It will be important to regularly monitor trends in program
participation and citizen requests to respond to the desires and needs of
residents.
   (E)   The following concepts should be kept in mind during design of all the
programs.
      (1)   Avoid duplication. The borough should emphasize providing types of
recreation programs that are not currently being provided, and coordinating
existing efforts by local groups. The borough responsibility might include
types of recreation programs, such as aerobics and fitness classes, that local
groups are less likely to undertake.
      (2)   Self-supporting. It is desirable to seek to have adult programs be
self-supporting, after the initial start-up costs. Children’s programs should
pay for actual expenses for materials and supplies.
      (3)   Fees and demand. One method of handling periods of peak demand for
facilities is to charge fees or charge higher fees only during these periods of
the day, week and year when there is the most demand. This will encourage
groups to schedule their activities during off-peak hours when the facility
might normally be unused.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
RECREATION FACILITIES AND PARKS PLAN
§ 92.035 RECREATION FACILITIES PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. Three major factors affect the recreation facilities that
the borough should provide. These are the type of programs that will be
provided, the facilities and land needed for unprogrammed activities and the
suitability of the available land for different facilities.
   (B)   Types of parks.
      (1)   There are many types of public recreation areas, based generally
upon the standards of the National Recreation and Park Association.
      (2)   The following are important to our area.
         (a)   Regional parks. These are large, primarily passive parks
typically of over 200 acres that are developed by the county or the state. The
nearest examples include the Jacobsburg State Park and Environmental Education
Center and Louise Moore Park.
         (b)   Conservancy lands. These are passive lands that are set aside
primarily to preserve important natural areas, and not primarily for
recreation. These usually include creek valleys and wooded steep areas. The
size of these areas will depend upon the amount of these resources in a
community.
         (c)   Community parks. These are parks typically of over 20 acres that
include a wide variety of active and passive recreation, and that emphasize
facilities for organized recreation programs, such as athletic fields. These
parks mainly serve a large portion of a municipality. This type of park usually
includes three or more good quality athletic fields, two or more picnic
pavilions, three or more tennis courts, basketball courts, trails, woods,
volleyball courts and children’s play equipment. Braden Park serves as the
borough’s community park.
         (d)   Neighborhood parks. These are parks of typically three to 12
acres that primarily serve the surrounding neighborhoods and that emphasize
more informal “pick-up” recreation as opposed to organized programs. These
parks typically include a youth athletic field, basketball courts, volleyball
courts, a picnic pavilion, benches and children’s play equipment. Mark Metz
Park and High Street Park serves as the borough’s community parks.
         (e)   Tot lots. These are small play areas averaging one acre in size
that mainly serve small children from nearby homes and that are built around
children’s play equipment. An example is the playground behind the Municipal
Building.
         (f)   Mini-park. These are used to address limited, isolated or unique
recreational needs between 2,500 square feet up to one acre in size. These
could include green space with trees, shrubs and benches.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.036 EXISTING RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. This list is the major recreation facilities in the
borough. Recommendations concerning many of these recreation areas are included
in §
92.040 at the end of this subchapter. The list will include the name and type
of park, acreage, active recreation facilities, passive recreation facilities,
support facilities and any additional comments.
   (B)   List.
          Bushkill Drive in Forks Township; community park of 10.5 acres
          2 ball fields, 2 volleyball courts, horseshoe pit, children’s play equipment,
          pavilion, 19 picnic tables, bleachers, benches, 3 charcoal grills
Braden    Port a potties April - October, 2 bay storage garage, large parking lot
Park      Park can be reserved by residents except holidays and holiday weekends; also
          used by the Nazareth Baseball League April through June; 2 adult softball
          leagues May through August; and a traveling league from Forks Township spring
          through fall
High      High Street; neighborhood park of 1.5 acres
Street    1 basketball court, 1 volleyball court, fitness stations, children’s play
Park      equipment
          Bleachers, benches, picnic tables and small parking lot
Mark Metz 7th Street; neighborhood park of 2 acres
Park      1 basketball court, children’s play equipment, open area for various games
          Benches and on-street parking
Park      Broad Street; tot lot of 0.5 acres
behind    Children’s play equipment, open area for various games
Municipal Benches and on-street parking
Building
          Rails to Trails; walking/bike path; Palmer Township boarder on the south to
Tatamy    Main Street on the north; 5 acres
Trail     8 feet wide/0.25 mile long trail
          Bike fix-it station, no mow area: east side of trail to Bushkill Creek
 
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.037 FACILITY NEEDS AND REQUESTS.
   (A)   Numerous methods provide insight into what types of recreation
facilities are most needed and desired by residents. These include requests by
residents and groups, comparisons with national standards, types of existing
and planned recreation programs and actual current use of facilities. An
additional alternative would be to conduct a resident recreation survey, which
may be a “mail-back” survey of either all households or a random sampling of
residents.
   (B)   The best way to determine needs is to look at the actual amounts of
use that different facilities receive, and how many requests for facilities
that cannot be met. As new facilities develop, their amount of use should be
monitored so that plans can be revised in response if needed. In addition, the
distribution of recreation facilities is equally important.
   (C)   According to the 2010 U.S. Census, Tatamy Borough had 1,203 residents.
It is forecasted by the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission that in year 2030,
the population will increase to 1,646.
   (D)   Based upon standards of the National Recreation and Park
Administration (NRPA) a community should have between six and one-fourth and
ten and one-half acres of parkland per 1,000 residents. Currently the borough
has 14.5 acres of parkland, not including the Tatamy Trail. This is more than
sufficient to meet current needs, according to the NRPA standard. To
accommodate the borough’s forecasted population, according to the standard, the
borough should have a total of 11 to 17.5 acres of parkland. It currently has
sufficient parklands to satisfy the national standard through year 2020.
   (E)   The NRPA guidelines recommend the following for fields and courts:
 
Basketball courts        1 per 5,000 residents
Football/soccer fields   1 per 20,000 residents
Softball/baseball fields 1 per 5,000 resident
Tennis courts            1 per 2,000 residents
Volleyball courts        1 per 5,000 residents
 
   (F)   The borough inventory indicates that there are more than sufficient
fields and courts, excluding tennis courts, to satisfy the national standard.
However, the reality of the borough’s needs with respect to future organized
athletic association and adult leagues and the like, indicates that additional
fields may be needed in different parts of the borough. Future population
statistics and programs will dictate the number of new fields and courts that
may be needed in the future.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.038 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC TYPES OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Athletic fields. Additional athletic fields may be needed. Fields
should be intended to be easily adaptable to softball, volleyball and soccer.
The fields need to be oriented with careful attention to the angles of the sun.
   (B)   Pavilions. There is extremely strong demand in the borough for
additional picnic pavilions. Pavilions are especially important to provide
shelter from both rain and the summer sun, especially for large group picnics.
Pavilions function best when they are adjacent to restrooms, children’s play
equipment and informal play areas.
   (C)   Fencing. Proper backstops are needed not only to protect players, but
also spectators. Movable fencing should be considered to make it easier to use
the same fields for both baseball/softball and soccer during different seasons.
   (D)   Play equipment. Play equipment should be available within a relatively
safe walking distance of all of the denser neighborhoods.
   (E)   Support facilities. It is important to provide certain support
facilities as part of any major park. These include restrooms, water fountains,
benches, bleachers for spectators, security lighting, trash and recycling cans
and paths or roads suitable for use by emergency vehicles.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.039 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The “open space plan” addresses ways development regulations can be
used to help provide adequate open space, recreational lands, conservation and
recreation facilities.
   (B)   As part of this planning program and to comply with changes in state
law, several revisions to the borough’s subdivision and land development
ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) are needed to assist in providing
needed recreation. These include the following suggestions:
      (1)   Require larger amounts of land per dwelling if land is only
suitable for passive open space;
      (2)   Base the recreation fees on the average value of the amount of land
that would otherwise be required; this is important to ensure fairness among
developers, so that one developer is not required to dedicate very valuable
land while another developer is only required to pay a small amount in fees;
      (3)   Establish a system to ensure fairness among developers who dedicate
floodplains or wetlands versus those who dedicate prime developable land; and
      (4)   Establish a system to ensure that recreation fees are spent in an
area that will be accessible to residents of the development that paid the fees
except where a centrally located specialty recreation area is provided.
   (C)   The largest expense in development of athletic fields is often grading
the land. The borough should consider allowing developers to accomplish grading
on existing borough owned land, in return for reducing the amount of open space
or fees that must be dedicated. Any such agreement should require the work to
follow a detailed grading plan.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.040 PROPOSED RECREATION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Official map. The “official map” shows major existing and proposed
recreation areas. These include approximate example locations of where it may
be appropriate for a developer to be required to provide future recreation
areas. These locations are meant to be for general planning purposes, and are
not intended to define exact boundaries.
   (B)   Location proposed recreation improvements.
      (1)   Borough wide.
         (a)   Recognize that the borough generally has sufficient recreation
areas in the majority of the already developed areas and that most of these
existing parks are generally developed to their desired capacity;
         (b)   A recreation facility is required to serve the needs of the
borough;
         (c)   Continue to coordinate the borough’s future recreation needs
with the borough’s ability to require developers to dedicate recreation land
and/or recreation fees, while coordinating land to be dedicated by different
developments (such as requiring land to be dedicated at the adjoining borders
of two different developments);
         (d)   Direct noisier and more intense types of recreation (such as
adult softball or lighted fields) to those locations where they are least
likely to negatively impact adjacent homes; and
         (e)   Emphasizing the development of active programs at various
locations would allow most of the smaller parks that may be developed in the
future to emphasize passive recreation and more informal “pick-up” games for
neighborhood children.
      (2)   Eastern (east of Bushkill Street, along Bushkill Creek). Along
Bushkill Creek.
         (a)   Preserve the entire Bushkill Creek corridor as a passive natural
greenway, preferably in public, private or wildlands conservancy ownership. If
this is not possible, seek conservation easements preventing development,
working with the wildlands conservancy or the Bushkill Stream conservancy;
         (b)   Work with Stockertown, Palmer Township and Forks Township to
connect the trail to the Plainfield Recreation Trail, the Stockertown Trail and
the Forks Township trail. Currently connected to Palmer Township trail by the
Tatamy Trail that starts at Main Street Bridge heading south along the Bushkill
Creek connecting to Palmer at Bushkill Street Bridge. Also work to extend this
trail north to connect with Stockertown’s bike/walking trail near the Palmer
Township border to our north and proposed trail through the Chrin Commerce
Center in the north/west end of the borough. Seek to link this Bushkill Creek
trail with Forks’ planned pathways running parallel to Uhler Road and running
south from Newlins Road, and with Bushkill Park. Connections are also possible
from Belfast to the trails of the Jacobsburg State Park and Environmental
Education Center;
         (c)   Preserve sensitive natural areas of the Bushkill Creek in public
ownership;
         (d)   Provide increased public access for fishing along the Bushkill
Creek corridor;
         (e)   Coordinate development of passive recreation areas along the
Schoeneck and Bushkill Creek greenways; and
         (f)   Consider adding additional barriers at major road crossings such
as at Main Street to cause bicyclists and pedestrians to stop or slow down at
intersections.
      (3)   Location proposed improvements. Continue recreation trail
connection from the Main Street Bridge north to Stockertown, through the
Signature Homes Estates and Chrin Commerce Center.
      (4)   Central (west of Bushkill Street to 8th Street, south of Main
Street).
         (a)   Recreation facility. Long-term goal for the borough to build a
Community Center. Possible location would be existing open space next to
Municipal Building. Used for activities listed in §
92.022(C); and
         (b)   Hope Community Garden. A one-plus acre garden to benefit local
food banks, soup kitchens and low income/needy families.
      (5)   Northern (north of Main Street). As land developed by Signature
Homes, seek a neighborhood park to serve new residents and develop trail to
link Tatamy Trail from owned property to Palmer Township and Stockertown.
      (6)   Location proposed improvements. Continue recreation trail
connection from the Main Street Bridge north to Stockertown, through the
Signature Homes Estates and Chrin Commerce Center.
      (7)   Western (west of 8th Street). Connection to trails through the
proposed Chrin Commerce Center and any parks that may be part of proposed
future development.
      (8)   Location proposed improvements. Continue recreation trail
connection through the light industrial, business and commercial development in
the Chrin Commerce Center.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION PLAN
§ 92.055 IMPORTANCE OF OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   It is important to preserve open spaces in the borough for the
following major reasons:
      (1)   To maintain the natural environmental processes and balances,
ensuring adequate groundwater and high water quality;
      (2)   To provide an important psychological relief from developed areas;
      (3)   To preserve areas of scenic beauty and protect the semi-rural
character of outlying areas;
      (4)   To preserve lands that are not naturally suited for development;
      (5)   To provide land for active and passive recreation, both presently
and in the distant future; and
      (6)   To preserve habitat for birds, fish and other wildlife.
   (B)   Open space can be preserved in public ownership, private ownership or
by a semi-public organization, such as an association of adjacent homeowners.
The difference is how much use is allowed by the general public.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.056 LAND PRESERVATION METHODS.
   (A)   Many creative and practical methods should be used to preserve open
space in the borough, especially as a means to avoid the need for extremely
expensive purchase of land by the borough.
   (B)   These methods include the following.
      (1)   Purchase. This involves actual purchase of land by a public agency,
and is the most expensive method. Purchase permanently preserves the land and
provides complete control over it. Condemnation should be avoided whenever
possible because of the expense, delay and ill-will that often results. To
spread out costs over time, sales agreements could provide for the purchase of
land in install merits in a form of “owner-financing”.
      (1)   Leasing. Leasing can make sense to respond to recreation needs in
the short-run, especially when the owner is not willing to sell the land.
Another option instead of a formal lease is to pay a landowner to allow certain
recreational use of the land during certain times of the year.
      (2)   Mandatory dedication. The borough requires all proposed residential
developments to dedicate a certain portion of the tract as permanent open space
and/or recreation, and/or to pay recreation fees “in-lieu-of” dedicating land.
New commercial and industrial uses should be required to pay recreation fees to
compensate or the recreation demand caused by the additional employees.
      (3)   Conservation easements. This method allows a private property owner
to continue to own and use their land, while selling or donating the right to
develop it. Restrictions on tree cutting and use of pesticides might also be
included. The land is then maintained by its owner, without any public expense.
The property can then be sold to others, provided that it continues to be
preserved. This method may be significantly less expensive than outright public
purchase, but does not allow public access, unless it is written into the
easement document, to the land. A conservation easement often appeals to people
who wish to preserve the land, but want to retain all fishing and hunting
rights for themselves. This method also allows a landowner to protect the
privacy of the land around their home. This method would be especially
appropriate along the Bushkill Creek.
      (4)   Scenic easements. This method is more limited than a “conservation
easement” because it allows limited development to occur as long as certain
major scenic views are protected. “Facade easements” are a related method that
ensure the exterior of a historic building is preserved.
      (5)   Agricultural easements. This method is very similar to a
“conservation easement” except that it is intended for prime active farmland.
The owner gives up the right to develop the land permanently or for a set
number of years in return for a certain amount of money. The county is
currently participating in a statewide program that purchases these
agricultural easements. However, this program has very limited funding.
Therefore, a property must rank very high on the basis of certain criteria in
order to be eligible. This method of preservation is especially appropriate in
areas where there is the best chance to preserve large areas of open space.
      (6)   Donations. Certain landowners may be willing to sell land at a
price below market value or donate land or donate “conservation easements.” The
federal income tax benefits of this method should be well publicized to
landowners. This method is often most attractive to persons who own land that
has physical limitations on development.
      (7)   Tax abatements. Certain property owners may be forced to sell their
land for development because they cannot afford to pay the taxes. In response,
the county allows real estate tax reductions under the PA Farm Land and Forest
Land Assessment Act of 1974 (Clean and Green), 72 P.S. §§ 5490.1 et seq., and
the Open Space Covenant Act (Act 515 of 1965, P.L. 1292) for large properties
if the owners agree not to develop their land for a seven year period. The
owner may break this restriction only after paying significant penalties.
      (8)   Zoning. Section 92.057 describes ways zoning can be used to help
preserve open space.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.057 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The borough’s zoning and SALDO regulations (
Chapters 154 and
155 of this code of ordinances) should be used to preserve open space,
especially on lands that are clearly physically unsuitable for building. Zoning
mainly preserves open space through limitations on how intensely land can be
developed and through incentives and disincentives. For example, a higher
overall density might be permitted if a developer preserves key areas of a
tract in open space. However, every landowner must be permitted some reasonable
use of their land.
   (B)   It is essential to ensure that all development respects the natural
features of the land. Also, areas that are clearly unsuitable for development
need to be protected. The most important natural features include creek
valleys, wetlands, flood prone areas, riparian buffer zones, wooded areas and
steep sloped lands.
   (C)   The following are certain key requirements and methods that should be
used to accomplish these objectives:
      (1)   Continue to require large lot areas in areas with slopes of 15 to
25%;
      (2)   Seek to avoid any earth disturbance on slopes over 25%;
      (3)   Strictly enforce the borough’s regulations on flood prone land
(especially areas vulnerable to a 100-year flood);
      (4)   Seek to have all paving and buildings setback at least 50 to 75
feet from the banks of each creek and wetland;
      (5)   Carefully review all development plans and activities to help
ensure that the federal and state wetland regulations are enforced;
      (6)   Carefully control unnecessary tree cutting;
      (7)   Encourage the development of carefully controlled low intensity
uses throughout the borough that would result in open space being preserved;
and
      (8)   Consider using an “official map” to reserve land that the borough
wishes to acquire in the future. This is discussed in §
92.061(B).
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.058 ACQUISITION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Recreation and conservation lands are very expensive to purchase (not
to mention the high cost to develop facilities and maintain them). The
preceding sections described ways that development regulations and other
incentives can be used to help preserve and obtain land without expensive
purchase.
   (B)   If the borough considers purchasing land, this plan recommends that
the following criteria be carefully considered.
      (1)   Is it physically suited for active recreation (including being
relatively flat and well-drained)?
      (2)   Would it be well-located to serve current and future neighborhoods?
      (3)   Is it protected from development by existing regulations (such as
floodplains or wetlands)?
      (4)   Does it have highly scenic qualities, especially if it is in a
location that is very visible (such as along a major road or on a ridge)?
      (5)   Would it provide an important link between existing recreation
areas and neighborhoods and/or connecting to natural features in adjacent
municipalities?
      (6)   Would it be desirable for passive recreation?
      (7)   Could it be purchased for a reasonable price (especially if the
seller will “donate” some of the value in return for federal income tax
benefits)?
      (8)   Does it involve a willing seller, as opposed to condemnation?
      (9)   Would it be developed in the near future if not purchased?
      (10)   Does it involve environmentally sensitive areas that could be
developed under existing regulations (such as forests or steep slopes)?
   (C)   The borough should work with the Wildlands Conservancy, Northampton
County, Bushkill Stream Conservancy and possibly local fish and game
organizations to acquire key areas of passive open space. This especially
includes lands along the Bushkill Creek. Other important open spaces should be
sought through the land dedication requirements in the subdivision and land
development ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances).
   (D)   Lands along creeks are important to preserve because they combine many
important and highly sensitive natural features. These include wetlands, steep
slopes, flood prone areas, high water table soils and wooded areas. Also, lands
along these waterways have tremendous potential in the long-run for recreation,
especially for hiking, bicycling, fishing, walking, cross-country skiing and
nature study.
   (E)   Many environmentally sensitive areas such as lands along the Bushkill
Creek that are not suitable for active recreation should be preserved.
Especially if these lands are in small parcels, it may be difficult for the
borough to oversee and provide even minimal maintenance to them.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.059 TRAILS.
   (A)   Walking, bicycling and cross-country skiing are becoming increasingly
popular. In response, a full set of safer routes for bicycling, jogging and
walking are needed throughout the borough, especially for children to reach
recreation areas. Although these routes will not be created in a short period
of time, attention should be placed on developing key links that eventually
will fit into a regional system.
   (B)   Trails should connect the existing borough bike/walking trails, major
parks, major neighborhoods and areas of commerce. These trails should include
both recreation trails within parks and more transportation oriented trails
between key locations to help reduce traffic congestion.
   (C)   As new developments are proposed, pedestrian and bicycle access should
be a consideration. If the local streets would not provide adequate connections
from the development towards major attractions in the area (such as a park),
then the developer should be required to develop a bike/walking trail for these
connections. Also, bikeway systems should be considered within new industrial
parks.
   (D)   This plan seeks to avoid the need for bicyclists, walkers and joggers
to travel along major roads. The intent is to steer these people onto local
streets and separate trails. However in certain areas, pedestrian and bicycle
travel will continue to use the shoulders of these major roads because there
are no alternatives. Bicycling and walking along roads is especially hazardous
when the road is heavily traveled, and does not have much shoulder or if the
road is narrow.
   (E)   Along selected roads, in cooperation with PennDOT and adjacent
developers, shoulders should be made wide and smooth enough for bicycles and
pedestrians. These shoulders should be well-marked and possibly sloped so that
they are not used by vehicles.
   (F)   Consideration should be given to requiring that large industrial parks
include bike/walking trails through their development.
   (G)   Specific trail recommendations are discussed in §
92.040(B).
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.060 IMPORTANT NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Land varies greatly in the amount of development that it can naturally
support. Some land, such as flood prone and very steeply-sloped land, should
remain completely in open space. Other lands are suitable for moderate
development, while some lands are able to support intense uses.
   (B)   Development in the borough should only be allowed in a manner which
carefully respects the natural features of the land. Environmentally sensitive
lands should be preserved in open space to maintain environmental balances.
Guidelines on how important natural features can be protected are in the
following sections.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.061 GUIDELINE FOR PROTECTING IMPORTANT NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   List. The list will include the type of natural feature, description,
potential problems if not protected, and strategies for protection.
      (1)   Steep slopes, wooded areas, conservation areas. Slopes of 15% have
15 feet of vertical change for every 100 feet of horizontal distance. Steep
slopes are often wooded and along creeks and are areas with numerous mature
trees.
         (a)   Difficulty of maintaining, snowplowing steep road, higher costs
of buildings, high rate of septic system failures, Increased erosion and
runoff, winter driving hazards from steep roads and driveways, disturbance of
scenic areas, increased costs to extend public water and sewer lines, loss of
important birds and wildlife habitats, loss of hunting areas, loss of air
purification, loss of scenic resources, noise and incompatible development may
become more noticeable, increase maintenance expenditure.
         (b)   Use special precautions during building, cluster houses on the
most suitable land while keeping steep slopes in open space, keep natural
vegetation intact, preserve areas of 25%+ slopes in open space/conservation
districts, require larger lot sizes in steep areas, prevent the unnecessary
cutting of trees during building, seek to preserve in public or private open
space, seek replanting with native vegetation of forested land that may be
disturbed.
      (2)   Floodplains. Areas that are prone to flooding. These include not
only the legally designated floodplain, but also areas along drainage channels.
         (a)   Increased flooding in other areas, loss of potential public
recreation areas, threats to important wild life and bird habitats, erosion and
sedimentation.
         (b)   Consider prohibiting all structures and paving not only within
the 100-year floodway (which is the actual main flood channel), but also along
the adjacent 100-year flood fringe; seek to preserve natural vegetation
immediately adjacent to creeks, seek to preserve land along major creek valley
as private, semi-public or public open space, follow guidelines set forth in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Waterways. There is one major surface water within and adjacent to
the borough: the Bushkill Creek.
         (a)   Loss of potential public recreation areas, threats to important
bird, fish, and wildlife habitats, increased turbidity; and
         (b)   Prevent soil erosion avoid sedimentation of creeks, consider
areas along creeks for public recreation, prevent runoff from polluting creeks
with pesticides, grease, and farm animal wastes, protect and maintain riparian
buffer zones along waterways.
   (B)   Putting this plan into action.
      (1)   It will be essential to carry out this plan through action in
several major areas:
         (a)   Administration;
         (b)   Security;
         (c)   Park design and engineering;
         (d)   Financing;
         (e)   Maintenance;
         (f)   Communications with the public;
         (g)   Safety/liability; and
         (h)   Volunteers.
      (2)   This section describes existing conditions and recommendations
under each of these major topics.
      (3)   This plan should be carried out through a continuous process of
planning and action. The awareness and continued participation of borough
residents will be extremely valuable in this process. This section describes
ways to move the objectives and recommendations of this plan towards reality.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
PUTTING THIS PLAN INTO ACTION
§ 92.075 ADMINISTRATION.
   The borough’s five member Recreation Board is appointed by the Borough
Council to oversee the planning and development of recreation and facilities.
The day-to-day administration of existing individual recreation programs are
handled by the Municipal Secretary/Treasurer and Public Works Foreman. The
Recreation Board is assisted by the Borough Council and borough staff.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.076 SECURITY.
   (A)   Security is especially a concern to prevent vandalism and garbage
dumping and to avoid conflicts with adjacent neighborhoods. The borough police
should regularly patrol borough parks. To help address security, especially as
additional recreation facilities are developed, the following should be
considered:
      (1)   Carefully design all new parks with security concerns in mind, by
making all areas visible from adjacent streets and by including security
lighting;
      (2)   Utilize the borough police and/or Public Works Department to lock
the gates that may be placed at parks at night;
      (3)   Strongly encourage neighbors who live around parks to report any
suspicious activity;
      (4)   Work through the schools to inform young people of the costs of
vandalism, including potential prosecution;
      (5)   Seek to have young people who are caught vandalizing parks to
repair and improve the parks if they want to avoid official punishment, or as a
condition of such punishment;
      (6)   Avoid developing those recreation facilities that are expensive and
more vulnerable to vandalism in areas that are more isolated;
      (7)   Provide recreation facilities near borough buildings and other
areas where responsible staff can help keep watch over the facilities;
      (8)   Use fences or barriers to limit access for dumping and to keep
vehicles off of athletic fields; and
      (9)   Enforcement of the curfew regulations (§§
130.01 through
130.07 and
130.99) per Council or Mayor.
   (B)   Make sure that all parks are designed to allow access for police
patrols, especially at night. Consider using a police bicycle patrol for Tatamy
Trail areas, especially during summer months.
   (C)   Continue to enforce the hour restrictions in parks to prevent late
night nuisances to adjacent neighbors.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.077 PARK DESIGN AND ENGINEERING.
   (A)   Detailed site planning and engineering is essential to ensure that a
park will be constructed properly and efficiently. If athletic fields are not
carefully engineered, for example, they often have drainage problems that
require large expenses and disruptions in use in the future to correct.
   (B)   Careful site design is also important to adjust the facilities around
each site’s natural features; to make sure that there is proper access for
emergency vehicles and to coordinate the long-term development of different
facilities and areas.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.078 FINANCING.
   (A)   Generally. State and federal grants for parks, recreation and open
space are extremely limited and increasingly competitive:
      (1)   Consider establishing a “Recreation Endowment Fund” for land
acquisition or special projects, supported by donations and fundraisers;
      (2)   Consider creative ways of financing, such as offering to name
facilities after persons or groups or businesses that pay for them (such as
ball fields or tennis courts, or putting donor plaques on park benches);
      (3)   Establish a “memorial arboretum” where people can fund the planting
of a tree in memorial to a person. This should involve a small memorial sign
and an invitation to the donor to help plant the tree. An overall landscape
plan should be completed including many different types of native trees,
allowing people to select the one they wish to pay for. Boy Scout troops also
are often interested in participating in tree planting programs in parks;
      (4)   Establish and periodically update a “capital improvements program”;
and
      (5)   Incorporate bird, bat or butterfly boxes and no mow zones wherever
it makes sense.
   (B)   Major types of financing.
      (1)   A combination of traditional and more creative financing methods
will be needed to put this plan into action. The following major types of
financing should be considered.
         (a)   Recreation fees by developers. This will probably continue to be
a major source for financing new recreation facilities and parkland in the
borough. These fees are paid by developers of new homes to compensate the
borough for the increased demand caused by each new household. Consideration
should be given to charging reasonable recreation fees on new business
developments to offset the demand on public recreation facilities caused by
nonresident employees.
         (b)   User fees. These are fees paid directly by the people who use a
program or facility. The intent is that certain offerings, such as adult
fitness programs, can sometimes be run in a business-like fashion for greater
efficiency and a fair distribution of costs. Also, fee systems can help to
avoid unnecessary costs. For example, if coin operated lights are used on a
basketball court, the electricity is only being used when the court is actually
being used. Care is needed to make sure that lower income families are not
excluded because they cannot afford high fees. Also, user fees should not be
charged if it would be too costly or administratively burdensome to collect.
         (c)   Bond issue. For very large capital expenses, borrowing often
makes sense. This avoids the need for large short-term tax increases and
spreads the payments over the many years over which the benefits will be
enjoyed. The main disadvantage is the high costs of interest on the debt.
         (d)   Local, state and federal grants. Significant amounts of grants
cannot be expected to be available for parks or open space. Even if grants
would be available, it must be remembered that grant programs often require
significant work to prepare a competitive application and to fulfill all of the
administrative requirements. Also, if federal or state grants are used, all
non-borough workers must be paid the “prevailing union wage rates”. This
substantially increases the costs of most construction projects.
      (2)   To increase the borough’s chances of receiving grants, it should
only seek grants for those types of projects that are likely to rank highly
according to the program’s official selection criteria.
         (a)   Environmental groups. To preserve key lands, the borough should
seek assistance from major environmental groups. These groups can often provide
technical assistance to the borough, financial advice to the landowner on major
tax advantages and possible assistance in fundraising. These groups include the
Wildlands Conservancy, the Nature Conservancy and the Bushkill Stream
Conservancy.
         (b)   Annual appropriations. The borough will need to decide each year
whether appropriations from the borough’s General Fund should be set aside to
develop facilities or to sponsor types of programs that cannot be fully funded
through user fees.
         (c)   Sponsorships and private grants. Area businesses or groups may
be willing to contribute towards specific programs in return for public
recognition.
         (d)   Gifts. The tax advantages of donating land and materials should
be fully publicized. Also, contributors should receive public recognition to
spur contributions. Specific businesses that might have excess of a needed item
that could be approached for donations. A “gifts catalog” would be excellent
ways of letting people know what the borough needs, so they could choose
exactly what items, materials or services they wish to contribute or pay for.
   (C)   Financial planning. Major financial tools will be needed to carry out
this plan:
      (1)   An annual recreation operating budget for routine expenses;
      (2)   An annual capital expenses budget for large expenses serving a
long-term need; and
      (3)   A five or seven year long “capital improvements” program to plan
for large expenses proposed for future years, the two later items to be funded
by developer recreation fees.
   (D)   Planning for capital improvements.
      (1)   “Capital” improvements are projects involving a substantial expense
for the construction or improvement of major public facilities. These are
extraordinary expenses that occur only on occasion, opposed to “operating”
expenses that occur every year.
      (2)   To carefully prepare for major future expenses and to help decide
when they should be accomplished, many communities have found great value in a
formal “capital improvements program” (CIP). A CIP is a process of
systematically and rationally identifying, planning and budgeting very large
capital expenses, such as purchasing parkland and developing facilities.
      (3)   This allows communities to avoid short-term tax hikes, to set aside
funds ahead of time for large projects, which can greatly lower the total cost
of a project by reducing borrowing and to efficiently combine any borrowing
needs into one bond issue.
      (4)   A CIP should list all projects needed, their costs, the year each
project will occur and the source of its financing. This also allows many
different projects to be compared with each other to effectively prioritize
different needs.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.079 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Maintenance includes not only repairing playground equipment and
mowing grass, but also includes plant, lawn and tree care, maintaining the
equipment used for maintenance and preparing athletic fields for use.
   (B)   The following suggestions should be considered in regards to
maintenance of parks:
      (1)   Prepare a seasonal calendar of maintenance work that needs to be
completed at different times of the average year, so the work can be more
easily scheduled following a routine year after year;
      (2)   Use a checklist to check-off maintenance work that is needed on
each parcel of borough parkland;
      (3)   Carefully design new recreational facilities to hold maintenance to
a reasonable minimum, such as using low-maintenance native plantings,
reforesting certain areas, letting some areas “go natural” especially
immediately along waterways, establishing no mow buffers and laying out grass
areas so that they are wide enough for a large tractor-mower;
      (4)   Involve experienced maintenance workers in reviewing the design of
proposed recreational facilities;
      (5)   Request that recreation groups accept primary responsibilities for
preparing athletic fields for their use prior to each game (such as lining of
fields, putting out bases, raking the infield and occasionally cutting the
infield grass at the discretion of the Public Works Foreman). This would free
the borough Public Works Department to concentrate on routine grass cutting and
major maintenance; and
      (6)   Park clean up days could be established in the spring and fall.
Residents would help with cleanup of the parks from winter debris and the like.
   (C)   The long-term expenses of maintaining and repairing recreational
facilities must be considered in the design of facilities. This includes the
time needed for a worker and equipment to move between sites. Therefore, over
the long-run, it may be desirable to have limited types of maintenance
equipment, such as a riding mower, stored within a small building within a
park.
   (D)   Groups of adjacent homeowners may be willing to assume certain
maintenance responsibilities for passive open spaces adjacent to their homes
because they would have the most interest in seeing that these lands were well-
maintained.
   (E)   As additional facilities and lands are developed, consideration should
be given to writing a maintenance manual that would establish a complete system
for all of the maintenance that is needed.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.080 COMMUNICATION WITH THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Most residents are probably familiar with those parks that are nearest
their homes or that are visible from major streets. Some residents may not be
familiar with the opportunities at smaller, less visible and newer parks.
Facilities and programs are of little value if the public is not aware of the
offerings. Therefore, a good communications program will be essential.
   (B)   To increase public awareness, information should continue to be put
into the borough newsletter, in email updates, on the website and Facebook
page, and supplements added to refuse and sewer billings. This information does
list the locations of recreation areas and the facilities that are available at
each area. This should be intended to be kept by families for reference. Also,
the newsletter and website should include lists of major recreation programs
being offered by local organizations.
   (C)   In addition, recreation programs should be publicized through radio,
newspaper articles, newspaper ads and flyers through the schools. Press
releases should routinely be sent to area newspapers to announce new facilities
and programs. Small posters can be placed in key locations, such as the
Municipal Building and local stores.
   (D)   The borough could develop a strong public image for its parks, open
space and recreation program by using an attractive logo on all recreation
notices, letterhead and signs. A contest might be sponsored to spur further
interest in the programs. Creating a partnership with school programs would
allow for education about these programs, as well as civic responsibility. Good
communication involves not only informing the public, but also listening to
their recommendations, concerns and suggestions.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.081 SAFETY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Safety has become a major concern in recreation because of the rise in
insurance costs. However, it must not be forgotten that safety is an absolutely
essential concern purely to avoid unnecessary injuries.
   (B)   These methods are recommended to respond to this problem:
      (1)   Continue to have adequate insurance;
      (2)   Require large groups that regularly use borough land to have
adequate insurance of their own that also protects the borough; and
      (3)   Continually look for ways to make borough lands and facilities
safer.
   (C)   In addition, high risk recreation facilities, such as skateboard
areas, should be avoided since this is provided to borough residents by our
participation and funding of the Nazareth Skate Park. All parks should be
regularly inspected to note any safety hazards. Any safety hazards should then
be quickly resolved. If the borough is aware of a correctable hazard and does
not act within a reasonable period of time, it is much more likely to be found
liable in the event of an injury.
   (D)   Nationally, one of the major sources of accidents and lawsuits is
children’s playground equipment. Three quarters of these accidents involve
falls in which a child hits a hard surface such as asphalt. In response, hard
surface should never be used under or around play equipment. Instead, the
borough should continue to cover these areas with a softer surface, such as
sand, wood chip carpet and/or recycled tire chips.
   (E)   Also, all play equipment must be adequately anchored and should not
involve ladders that are too steep. All equipment should have adequate space
around it so that children playing around one piece do not run into a second
piece of equipment in accordance with the Consumer’s Products Safety Commission
Publication #325 - Playground Safety Guidelines or most current version.
   (F)   For safety, high and long backstops are needed around all fields used
for softball or baseball. Fences should separate play areas from major roads.
Sharp edges and protrusions must be avoided.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.082 VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   Volunteers are an essential part of many recreation programs,
including coaches, leaders of activities, nature guides, fundraisers and
teachers of skill. Teenagers often are a major untapped source of volunteers.
   (B)   The easiest volunteers to work with are often those that participate
as part of an already organized group, such as local service groups and Boy
Scouts. Proper supervision, oversight, training, placement and scheduling of
volunteers is essential, which often requires substantial effort.
   (C)   College interns often can provide free labor, especially if they could
obtain college credit for the work as well as those looking for community
service hours. However, work intended for an intern must be of a type that will
not require so much supervision that it becomes a burden to the staff:
      (1)   Provide volunteers with adequate recognition for their work;
      (2)   Provide volunteers with adequate training, such as first aid;
      (3)   Publicize the types of work that volunteers are needed to
accomplish;
      (4)   Monitor volunteer coaches to ensure that they do not push young
children beyond their mental and physical capabilities; and
      (5)   Consider establishing a voluntary training program for coaches so
that they can be the most effective program leaders, and to help them recognize
possible health and safety concerns.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.083 CONTINUING PLANNING.
   (A)   Planning must not be a once-and-done process. This plan will need to
be periodically revised to reflect changing circumstances, problems and trends.
   (B)   As part of this continuing planning program, the borough should expand
its relationships with neighboring municipalities and with other groups
providing recreation. These strengthened relationships and coordinated efforts
will most effectively broaden the recreational opportunities of all present and
future residents.
   (C)   The final decision on nearly every matter that affects recreation and
open space conservation in the borough rests with the Borough Council.
Therefore, it is essential that all boards, commissions and committees maintain
the very best of communications with Council. Many communities work towards
this goal by appointing a member of all boards, commissions and committees to
attend the monthly meetings of the Council and vice-versa.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 92.084 TOOLS TO CARRY OUT THE PLAN.
   (A)   Zoning. The zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, is the main legal tool for regulating
uses of land.
   (B)   Subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances). The subdivision and land development
ordinance guides and controls the layout of streets, lots and utilities. The
requirements within this chapter for developers to dedicate recreation land or
fees and to possibly construct bicycle paths in certain areas are discussed in
§
92.039.
   (C)   Official map. The Municipal Planning Code provides the borough with
the authority to adopt an “official map.” this official map can designate
approximate proposed locations of streets and new and expanded parks. The
official map then provides the opportunity for the borough to work with the
owner to reserve those lands for one year after they are officially proposed
for development. Within that one year, the borough would then either have to
purchase the land for its fair market value or decide not to go forward with
the proposal. This method can provide the time needed to raise the needed
funds, and to prevent the loss of important opportunities. It also puts the
landowners on notice about the borough’s future plans.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
APPENDIX A: OFFICIAL MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1429.png]
 
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 93: OPEN BURNING AND OUTDOOR
SOLID FUEL BURNING APPLIANCES
Section
Open Burning
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Enforcement
   
93.03   Regulations
Outdoor Solid Fuel Burning Appliances
   
93.15   Applicability
   
93.16   Purpose and scope
   
93.17   Definitions
   
93.18   Materials that may not be burned
   
93.19   Regulations for existing outdoor solid fuel burning furnaces or
appliances
   
93.20   Specific requirements
   
93.21   Permits
   
93.22   Liability
   
93.23   Right of entry and inspection
   
93.24   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FURNACE. Any enclosed device specifically designed for burning any material
for the production of heat.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal and vegetable matter resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INCINERATOR. Any device specifically designed for the destruction by burning
of refuse, sewage sludge or other combustible material.
   OPEN FIRE. A fire in which any material is burned in the open or in a
receptacle other than a furnace or incinerator.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, department,
bureau, agency or other legal entity.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish and trade waste.
   RUBBISH. Solids not considered to be highly flammable or explosive
including, but not limited to, rags, old clothes, leather, rubber, carpets,
wood, excelsior, paper, ashes, tree branches, tree leaves, yard trimmings,
furniture, tin cans, glass, crockery, masonry and other similar materials.
   SALVAGE OPERATION. Any business, trade or industry engaged whole or in part
in salvaging or reclaiming any product or material, including, but not limited
to, metals, chemicals, shipping containers or drums.
   TRADE WASTE. All solid or liquid materials resulting from construction,
building operations or the prosecution of any business, trade or industry
including, but not limited to, plastic products, cartons, paint, grease, oil
and other petroleum products, chemicals, cinders, and other forms of solid or
liquid waste materials; provided that TRADE WASTE shall not include any coal
refuse associated with the mining or preparation of coal.
(Ord. 139-1988, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Borough Council shall have the power and duty to enforce provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 139-1988, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 93.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Within the borough limits, no person shall:
      (1)   Ignite or feed an open fire, or in any container including furnaces
and incinerators, for the destruction of refuse or in the conduct of a salvage
operation in any public or private place outside any building; or
      (2)   Cause, suffer, allow or permit the maintenance of any open fire for
the destruction of refuse, or in the conduct of a salvage operation on any
property under his or her control outside of any building.
   (B)   Exceptions: open fires may be set in the performance of an official
duty of any public officer if the fire is necessary for:
      (1)   The prevention of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by other
means;
      (2)   The protection of public health; or
      (3)   Training.
(Ord. 139-1988, passed 9-6-1988) Penalty, see §
93.99
OUTDOOR SOLID FUEL BURNING APPLIANCES
§ 93.15 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning furnaces, boilers and
appliances within the borough.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace, or other heating device within a building or structure used for
human or animal habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.16 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   Whereas the Borough Council has determined that air pollution from outdoor
solid fuel burning appliance may be detrimental to the health, comfort, living
conditions, welfare and safety of the citizens of the borough, it is hereby
declared to be the policy of the borough to safeguard the citizens of the
borough from such air pollution.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APCA. Air Pollution Control Act.
   CHIMNEY. Any vertical structure enclosing a flue or flues that carry off
smoke or exhaust from a solid fuel fired outdoor heating appliance.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood that has no paint, stains or other types of
coatings, and natural wood that has not been treated with, including, but not
limited to, copper chromium arsenate, creosote or pentachlorophenol.
   EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM OR PHASE 2 PROGRAM. EPA OWHH (outdoor wood-fired
hydronic heater program) Phase 1 Program or Phase 2 Program administered by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM QUALIFIED MODEL. An outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heater that has EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified. The model has met the EPA
OWHH Phase 1 emission level and has the proper qualifying label and hangtag.
   EPA OWHH PHASE 2 PROGRAM QUALIFIED MODEL. An outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heater that has EPA OWHH Phase 2 Program qualified. The model has met the EPA
OWHH Phase 2 emission level and has the proper qualifying label and hangtag.
   OUTDOOR SOLID FUEL BURNING APPLIANCE. Any equipment, device or apparatus
which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors, and not situated within a
building intended for habitation by humans or domestic animals, which is used
for the primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat for energy as a
heating system, or component thereof, which provides heat or hot water to the
principle structure, to a structure used for human or animal habitation, or to
any accessory uses or structures, including, but not limited to, greenhouses,
conservatories and swimming pools.
   STRUCTURE. Any inhabited building including a residence and/or business.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.18 MATERIALS THAT MAY NOT BE BURNED.
   Unless specific written approval has been obtained from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), the following materials may not
be burned in the borough under any circumstances:
   (A)   Rubbish or garbage including, but not limited to, food wastes, food
wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
composite shingles, demolition debris or other household or business wastes,
including paper waste and cardboard;
   (B)   Waste oil or other oily wastes except used oil burned in a heating
device for energy recovery subject to applicable Pennsylvania DEP regulations;
   (C)   Asphalt and products containing asphalt;
   (D)   Driftwood, treated or painted wood including, but not limited to,
plywood, composite wood products, or other wood products that are painted,
varnished, or treated with preservatives;
   (E)   Any plastic material including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, films and containers;
   (F)   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubber-like products; and
   (G)   Any material that is not recommended for burning by the manufacturer
of the appliance.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING OUTDOOR SOLID FUEL BURNING FURNACES OR
APPLIANCES.
   (A)   All owners/operators of existing outdoor solid fuel burning appliances
shall apply for a permit for the appliance in accordance with the permit
requirements contained in §
93.20(A), (B) through (M), (O) and §
93.21(B) and (E) hereof within 60 days of the adoption of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any existing noncomplying outdoor solid fuel burning appliance shall
be removed, replaced or modified within a period of 60 days from the receipt of
a notice generated from the Zoning Officer.
   (C)   Upon application for a waiver of the provisions of this subchapter,
the Borough Council may grant a waiver of the provisions of this subchapter
after public hearing pursuant to the Local Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 and
751, provided that all of the following findings be made, where relevant:
      (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions (including
irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property)
and that an unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created in the neighborhood in which the
property is located;
      (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, a waiver is
necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
      (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the property
owner;
      (4)   The waiver, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood nor substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use
or development of adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare;
and
      (5)   The waiver, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance that
will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   In granting a waiver, the Council may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.20 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   An outdoor solid fuel burning appliance may be used in the borough only in
accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   An appliance shall not be used to burn any of the prohibited materials
listed in §
93.17. Only firewood, clean wood, untreated lumber or pellets made from clean
wood are permitted to be burned in any outdoor fuel burning appliance. Home
heating oil, natural gas, propane or that which complies with all applicable
sulfur limits and is used as a starter or supplemental fuel for dual fired
outdoor wood burning boilers shall also be permitted.
   (B)   Any outdoor solid fuel burning appliance shall be located on a lot of
not less than one acre and shall be not less than 75 feet from any lot line and
shall not be less than 100 feet from any structure not served by the unit.
   (C)   Chimney location: no person shall install an outdoor solid fuel
burning appliance unless it has a permanent attached stack with a minimum stack
height of 20 feet above the ground that also extends at least two feet above
the highest peak of any structure not served by the unit located less than 150
feet from the outdoor solid fuel burning appliance, unless the unit is Phase 2
compliant and manufacturer recommends a lower stack height.
   (D)   (1)   All appliances shall comply with emissions standards as required
for outdoor solid fuel burning appliances, as promulgated by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA). For purposes of this subchapter, all emission
standards currently required by the EPA are hereby adopted by reference as well
as any amendments or modifications made to them hereafter.
      (2)   No person shall use or operate a new or existing outdoor solid fuel
burning appliance unless it complies with all existing state and local
regulations. Some regulations of this commonwealth that could apply include:
         (a)   25 Pa. Code § 121.7 - Prohibition of Air Pollution;
         (b)   25 Pa. Code § 123.1 - Fugitive Emissions;
         (c)   25 Pa. Code § 123.31 - Odor Emissions;
         (d)   25 Pa. Code § 123.41 - Visible Emissions;
         (e)   Section 8 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4008 - Unlawful Conduct; and
         (f)   Section 13 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4013 - Public Nuisances.
   (E)   All appliances shall be installed, operated, and maintained in strict
compliance with the manufacturer’s instructions and guidelines for the said
appliance. In the event that a conflict arises between the manufacturer’s
instructions and regulations and the regulations contained in this subchapter,
the stricter instructions or regulations shall apply.
   (F)   All ashes or waste must be disposed of in a manner approved by the
borough and/or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   (G)   All appliances shall be used for the sole purpose of furnishing heat
and/or hot water to a dwelling or other structure pursuant to a permit issued
hereunder, including residential swimming pools and accessory structures.
   (H)   In the event that the appliance is damaged more than 50%, or it is
physically deteriorated or decayed, the said appliance must be removed and/or
replaced with a new unit within 60 days of the date that notice is received
from the borough. In such event, all provisions of this subchapter, including
but not limited to permitting procedures, shall be complied with.
   (I)   Outdoor solid fuel burning appliances shall be operated only between
October 1 and May 1 of each year.
   (J)   Spark arrestors: all outdoor solid fuel burning appliances shall be
equipped with properly functioning spark arrestors if recommended by the
manufacturer.
   (K)   Catalytic converter: all outdoor solid fuel burning appliances
installed within the borough must be equipped with a properly functioning
catalytic converter, unless the unit is EPA OWHH Phase 1 or Phase 2 program
qualified.
   (L)   The use of such outdoor solid fuel burning appliances must follow all
operating instructions supplied by the manufacturer.
   (M)   Installation of any electrical or plumbing apparatus or device used in
connection with the operation of an exterior furnace shall be in conformity
with all applicable electrical and plumbing codes and, in the absence of such
code, in conformity with the manufacturer’s installation specifications.
   (N)   Standards for installation shall also require the outdoor solid fuel
burning appliances be installed upon a nominal six-inch thick permanent,
reinforced cement pad in such dimension so as to allow a minimum of six inches
of exposed surface area along the perimeter of the pad.
   (O)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high winds
or other related elements.
   (P)   The use of lighter fluids, gasoline, or chemicals to start the furnace
is prohibited.
   (Q)   The appliance shall be located on a property with due consideration to
prevailing wind conditions.
   (R)   No person shall use or operate a new or existing outdoor solid fuel
burning appliance unless it complies with all existing state and local
regulations. Some regulations of this commonwealth that could apply include:
      (1)   25 Pa. Code § 121.7 - Prohibition of Air Pollution;
      (2)   25 Pa. Code § 123.1 - Fugitive Emissions;
      (3)   25 Pa. Code § 123.31 - Odor Emissions;
      (4)   25 Pa. Code § 123.41 - Visible Emissions;
      (5)   Section 8 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4008 - Unlawful Conduct; and
      (6)   Section 13 of the APCA, 35 P.S. § 4013 - Public Nuisances.
   (S)   All outdoor solid fuel burning appliances shall comply with the
standards of EPA OWHH Phase 2 Program qualified models or better.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall install, start or maintain any outdoor solid fuel
burning appliance without first obtaining a permit issued by the borough.
   (B)   Before a permit can be issued hereunder, an inspection of the proposed
installation shall be required. In addition, a site plan is required showing
the location of the proposed appliance on the property, location and height of
all existing structures on the adjacent properties, and distances from the
appliance to existing structures on the adjacent properties. The manufacturer’s
specifications and instructions shall also be furnished to the borough before a
permit can be issued.
   (C)   A permit can only be issued if all requirements contained in this
subchapter are strictly complied with.
   (D)   Any violation of the aforementioned conditions shall be deemed a
violation of this subchapter. Any violation of this subchapter or the issued
permit shall void the permit.
   (E)   The fee for a permit shall be determined by resolution of the Borough
Council from time to time pursuant to the borough fee schedule.
   (F)   Any resident who has secured a permit to install an outdoor solid fuel
burning appliance in so doing will also be agreeing to allow the Borough Zoning
Officer or any person designated by the borough to inspect the furnace if a
written complaint is filed relative to a violation of this subchapter.
   (G)   Upon sale or transfer of any real property, the permit shall be
renewed. All appliances not meeting applicable emissions, setback or chimney
height requirements shall be replaced, removed or rendered permanently
inoperable.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor solid fuel burning appliance
shall be responsible for all fire suppression costs and any other liability
resulting from damage caused by a fire.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.23 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Any authorized officer, agent, employee or representative of the Borough
Zoning and Codes Office, who presents credentials, may inspect any property for
the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
If access is denied, access shall be obtained pursuant to applicable laws of
the commonwealth.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning and Codes Officer of the borough is authorized to enforce
any provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be governed by the laws of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300, and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.24 shall, upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement
proceeding commenced by the borough, pay a judgment of not more than $600 plus
all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the borough as
a result thereof. Every day that a violation of §§
93.15 through
93.24 continues shall be deemed to be, and shall constitute a separate offense
hereunder.
(Ord. 139-1988, passed 9-6-1988; Ord. 248-2010, passed 7-5-2010)
CHAPTER 94: KEY LOCK BOXES
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Requirements
   
94.04   Exceptions
   
94.05   Specifications
   
94.06   Administration, record keeping, notification and registration
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited and shall be known as the “Tatamy Borough Key Lock
Box Installation Ordinance”.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM. A box designated to contain building entrance keys and
keys to other areas of the building.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
§ 94.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Structures subject to the use of a key lock box system: the following
structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or near the main entrance
or such other location specified by the Fire Chief:
      (1)   Any commercial or industrial use building, as defined by the
borough zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   All buildings within the borough that have an automatic alarm and/
or sprinkler system; and
      (3)   Any preexisting commercial or industrial building or structures
which have been approved for the construction of building additions equal to or
greater than 33% of the total square footage of the structure prior to the
construction of the addition.
   (B)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have
the key lock box installed and in operation prior to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy.
   (C)   The owner or operator of the structure required to have a key lock box
shall at all times maintain a key in the lock box that will allow access to the
structures.
   (D)   The Fire Chef shall designate the type of key lock box to be used in
the borough and shall have the authority to require all structures to use the
designated lock box.
   (E)   Any controlled vehicle parking areas which utilize mechanical parking
gates to control motor vehicle ingress and egress shall have installed and
maintained emergency override control devices on each gate. The emergency
control device shall be a master-key-operate type switch approved by the Fire
Chief of the borough.
   (F)   All costs associated with the purchase and installation of the key
lock box system shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner.
   (G)   All buildings equipped with elevators shall install a key lock box
system. Two sets of keys for entry to the building and all portions of the
premises and elevator control keys (if elevators are equipped with bypass
switches) shall be provided and maintained in the key lock box system.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any property protected by an on-site 24 hour seven-day a week security
guard service or maintenance personnel;
   (B)   All residential properties including apartments of two stories or
less; and
   (C)   Any commercial or industrial structure constructed prior to the
adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
§ 94.05 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Key box content.
      (1)   Keys to locked points of egress, whether on interior or exterior of
such buildings;
      (2)   Keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
      (3)   Keys to the locked elevator rooms;
      (4)   Keys to the elevator controls;
      (5)   Keys to any fence or secured areas;
      (6)   Keys to any other areas as directed by the Fire Chief;
      (7)   A floor plan of the rooms within the building;
      (8)   A card listing the emergency contact people and their phone numbers
for each building; and
      (9)   Keys within the lock box shall be labeled for easy identification
either by the tenant name or index to a floor plan of the building and shall be
kept current.
   (B)   Key box types specifications. The key lock box and the location for
installation shall be approved by the Fire Chief of the borough.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
§ 94.06 ADMINISTRATION, RECORD KEEPING, NOTIFICATION AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Record keeping.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall record pertinent data regarding each property
protected by a key lock box.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall include whatever information required for
record keeping purposes.
   (B)   Registration fee. The registration fee of $25 shall be payable to the
Borough Fire Company whenever a lock box is initially installed.
   (C)   Control of key lock box system. The Fire Department shall be in
complete control of the key lock box system authorization operation. Each key
lock box system shall utilize approved signatures from the Fire Department for
the release of keys and all lock products from the manufacturer.
   (D)   Notification. In the event the owner or tenants changes the locks at
any location covered by the key lock box system, the owner or tenant shall
immediately notify the Fire Chief.
   (E)   Enforceability. This chapter may be enforced by the Borough Fire
Department and/or Borough Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter is a summary offense and shall carry a fine of
not more than $500 and shall be enforced in the manner and procedure
established by 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324.
(Ord. 209, passed 3-5-2004)
CHAPTER 95: TREES AND VEGETATION ALONG RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Maintenance of trees
   
95.03   Removal of trees
   
95.04   Violations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings, whether or not
the terms are capitalized. Unless otherwise expressly stated, terms not defined
in this section shall construed consistent with their common and ordinary
meaning.
   BOROUGH. Borough of Tatamy.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area of any public street, road, highway or other publicly
held thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the borough that has been
designated by law as a public right-of-way.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or
leaving an intersection. The extents of sight triangles shall be determined by
using the most stringent requirements contained in the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code, Tatamy Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, or Tatamy Zoning
Ordinance, as applicable.
   SUPERVISOR. Supervisor of Public Works of the Borough of Tatamy.
(Ord. 282-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 95.02 MAINTENANCE OF TREES.
   (A)   The maintenance, care or removal of any tree, and required compliance
with any provision of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the property
owner on whose property the tree is located.
   (B)   No person, without first obtaining permission from the borough, shall
plant a tree within any public right-of-way.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner of property fronting upon or
alongside any street or alley in the borough to trim and keep trimmed all trees
planted or growing upon that property or upon the sidewalk area adjacent to
that property so that no part of the tree, or of its branches or foliage shall
be closer than 14 feet above the surface of the roadway of the street or nine
feet above the surface of the sidewalk.
   (D)   No hedge, shrub, bush, or vegetation shall encroach upon or overhang
the clear width of a public sidewalk or public street in such a manner as it
diminishes the clear width of said sidewalk or street from ground level a
distance of 14 feet above the surface of the roadway of the street or nine feet
above the surface of the sidewalk.
   (E)   Whenever a health or safety hazard is caused by a tree on private
property that overhangs a public walk or street, the responsible property owner
shall take action to correct the condition within 30 days of notice.
   (F)   Whenever any tree, vegetation, or object located on private property
obstructs the sight distance of motorists in the sight triangle, or the safe
passage on any street or right-of-way, the borough may issue a written order to
the responsible property owner to take action to correct the condition within
30 days of the date of the order.
(Ord. 282-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 95.03 REMOVAL OF TREES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of property in the borough to
remove any tree, growing upon that property or upon the sidewalk area adjacent
to that property, upon notice from Council, when the roots of the tree have
caused any part of the sidewalk to heave up, be cracked or otherwise disturbed,
and then to repair or reconstruct the sidewalk, as required by Council, so as
to place the walk in proper condition.
   (B)   In an emergency where any tree poses an immediate threat to health,
property or safety, the Borough may order the immediate removal of a tree.
Prior to the removal of the tree, the Supervisor shall document how the tree
poses an immediate threat to health and safety.
(Ord. 282-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 95.04 VIOLATIONS.
    The borough reserves the right to trim any vegetation found in violation
and the property owner will be charged per the current fee schedule.
(Ord. 282-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a summary offense, and may
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 and costs; and/or undergo
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Every day that a violation of this chapter
continues shall constitute a separate offense. Property owners shall have 30
days from notification to comply with requirements.
(Ord. 282-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Title
   
96.02   Purpose and intent
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Prohibited acts
   
96.05   Exceptions
   
96.06   Regulations
   
96.07   Enforcement
   
96.08   Violation ticket appeals process
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be commonly known as the "Noise Control Ordinance."
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Excessive noise can be a serious threat to the comfort, convenience, health,
safety, welfare, and overall quality of life of the citizens of Tatamy Borough.
It is the intent of this chapter to establish requirements and criteria to
prevent excessive noise that may jeopardize the health and welfare of its
citizens or degrade their quality of life. Therefore, it intends hereby to
prohibit all excessive and unreasonable noise from all sources subject to its
police power in order to preserve, protect, and promote health, safety,
welfare, and the peace, quiet and comfort of the citizens of Tatamy Borough.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION OPERATION. The erection, repair, renovation, demolition, or
removal of any building or structure; and the excavation, filling, grading and
regulation of lots in connection therewith.
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
      IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of impulsive sound include
explosions, drop forge impacts, and the discharge of firearms.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a
motor, such as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers,
semitrailers, campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious crafts on land, dune
buggies, racing vehicles, or motorcycles.
      MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE. A device designed or used for
abating the sound of escaping fluids from an engine or machinery system.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which (1) endangers or injures the safety or
health of humans or animals; or (2) annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of
normal sensitivities; or (3) endangers or injures personal or real property.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written document issued to a person in violation
of a borough ordinance which specifies the violation and contains a directive
to take corrective action within a specified time frame or face further legal
action.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state. PERSON shall include the owner
or operator of the noise disturbance source, the owner, tenant or manager of
real property from which the noise disturbance emanates and any other
individual responsible for producing the noise disturbance or allowing said
disturbance to occur.
      POWERED MODEL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne, or land
borne plane, vessel, or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, rocket or drone.
      PUBLIC OFFICER. Any authorized inspector, or public official designated
by the Tatamy Borough Manager or Tatamy Chief of Police to enforce the Borough
Ordinances.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
      PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
      REAL PROPERTY. All land whether publicly or privately owned, whether
improved or not  improved, with or without structures, exclusive of any areas
devoted to public right-of-way.
      REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY LINE. Either (1) the imaginary line, including its
vertical extension that separates one parcel of real property from another; or
(2) the vertical and horizontal boundaries of a dwelling unit that is one in a
multi-dwelling unit building; or (3) the vertical and horizontal boundaries of
a dwelling unit or commercial unit of a mixed residential-business use
building.
      RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. The imaginary line, including its vertical
extension that separates any zoned residential district from any zoned
commercial or industrial district.
      SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that
causes compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristics of such sound, including duration, intensity, and
frequency.
      VIOLATION TICKET. A form issued by a police officer or public officer to
a person who violates a provision of this chapter.
      WARNING - VERBAL OR WRITTEN. Issued by an officer to achieve voluntary
compliance and to establish prior notice. Warnings are issued for violations
that may lead to enforcement action if not promptly and adequately corrected.
      WEEKDAY. The period from Monday 12:00 a.m. (midnight) through Thursday
11:59 p.m.
      WEEKEND. The period from Friday 12:00 a.m. (midnight) through Sunday 11:
59 p.m.
   (B)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Noise disturbance prohibited. No person shall make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued, any noise disturbance. Non-commercial public speaking and
public assembly activities shall be exempt from the operation of this section.
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be noise
disturbances and therefore in violation of this chapter.
   (A)   Radios, tape/CD players, digital music players, speakers, television
sets, musical instruments, electronic amplification, equipment, and similar
devices operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
digital device, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound
amplifier, automobile radio, automobile stereo or high-fidelity equipment or
similar device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
      (1)   At any time of the day in such a manner from any source as to
create a noise disturbance across a real property boundary line;
      (2)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across any real
property boundary line when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public
right-of-way or public space;
      (3)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier;
      (4)   At such a sound intensity that the sound creates a noise
disturbance in any public area, park, street or sidewalk of the borough when
the sound source originates in any public area, park, street, or sidewalk of
the borough; or
      (5)   At any time unless used in connection with an earplug or earphone
in any of the township parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Yelling and shouting. Engaging in loud or raucous yelling, hooting,
whistling, or singing on the public streets between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m to the disturbance of others.
   (C)   Stationary non-emergency signaling devices. Sounding or permitting the
sounding of any signal from any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle, or
similar device, intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any place,
for more than one minute in any hourly period.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices.
      (1)   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing, as
provided in divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(b).
      (2)   (a)   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall
occur at the same time of the day each time such a test is performed, but not
before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. any such testing shall use only the minimum
cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed 60 seconds.
         (b)   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including
the functioning of the signaling device and the personnel response to the
signaling device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar month. Such
testing shall not occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. The time limit
specified in (D)(2)(a) shall not apply to such complete system testing.
      (3)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar alarm
or any motor vehicle burglar alarm unless such alarm is automatically
terminated within six minutes of activation.
   (E)   Loudspeakers/public address systems. Using or operating any
loudspeaker, public address system, or similar device:
      (1)   Such that sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary line; or
      (2)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on a public right-of-
way or public space.
   (F)   Street sales. Offering for sale or selling by shouting or outc1y
within any residential or commercial area of the borough except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (G)   Animals and birds.
      (1)   The keeping of any animal or bird that makes noise continuously
and/or incessantly for a period of ten minutes or makes such noise
intermittently for 30 minutes or more.
      (2)   The noise from any animal or bird must disturb two or more
residents residing in separate residences adjacent to any part of the property
on which the subject animal or bird are kept or maintained, or three or more
residents residing in separate residences in close proximity to the property on
which the subject animal or bird are kept or maintained shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   However, it shall not be a violation of this chapter if at the time
the animal or bird is making such noise when a person is trespassing or
threatening to trespass upon private properties in or upon which the animal or
bird is situated or for any other legitimate cause which teased or provoked the
animal or bird.
   (H)   Delivery/loading operations. Loading, unloading, opening, closing, or
other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans,
dumpsters or similar objects and any other pick-ups/deliveries:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day, in
such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary
line.
      (2)   Truck idling is restricted and enforced under the Pennsylvania
Diesel-Powered Motor Vehicle Idling Act - Act 124 of 2008.
      (3)   The following acts, related to delivery/loading are declared to be
unlawful:
         (a)   Any deliveries, unloading, loading, and opening of commercial
goods at any times other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on
weekdays and between 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on weekends when such activity
occurs within 250 feet of a residential property boundary.
         (b)   The operation of any transportation refrigeration units during
the times for which delivery, loading, or opening of commercial goods are being
conducted.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to any commercial and/or industrial
development if previous delivery/loading operation time constraints have been
established during the borough approval process.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to municipal, or utility services
conducted in the public right-of-way.
      (6)   The owner, possessor, lessee or responsible agent can be held
responsible for any noise disturbance or unlawful activity relating to
delivery/loading operations that occurs on the property.
   (I)   Commercial/industrial property maintenance. The routine maintenance of
a commercial/industrial property including but not limited to lot sweeping,
paving, line painting, etc. conducted on such property between the hours of 9:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a
residential property boundary, exception would be if maintenance is the result
of an emergency.
      (1)   The owner, possessor, lessee or responsible agent can be held
responsible for any noise disturbance relating to commercial/industrial
property maintenance operations that occurs on the property.
   (J)   Vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft repairs and testing. Repairing,
rebuilding, or testing any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, or aircraft in
such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary
line.
   (K)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, or
similar device used outdoors in residential areas between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day so as to cause a noise disturbance across
a real property boundary line. Snow blowers shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section.
   (L)   Fireworks (consumer and non-consumer).
      (1)   The owner, possessor, lessee or responsible agent of real property
on which fireworks are being ignited for the sole purpose of this chapter will
be the legally responsible party for any violations for which the offending
party is not known.
      (2)   Prohibited acts:
         (a)   A person who is under the age of 18 years of age may not
purchase, possess and/or use consumer fireworks within the borough.
         (b)   The use or firing of consumer fireworks which create an
impulsive sound so as to cause a noise disturbance cannot be ignited or
discharged within the borough prior to 4:00 p.m. and not after 9:00 p.m.,
Sunday through Thursday and prior to 4:00 p.m. and not after 10:00 p.m., Friday
and Saturday. The only exception is on December 31, 4:00 p.m. to 11:59 p.m. and
January 1, 12:00 midnight to 12:30 a.m. any other times than those listed is
strictly prohibited.
         (c)   All non-consumer firework displays must be approved by the
Borough Manager or designee and proper permits must be obtained.
         (d)   They cannot be ignited or discharged on public or private
property without the express written permission of the property owner.
         (e)   They cannot be discharged from or within a motor vehicle or
building.
         (f)   They cannot be discharged toward a motor vehicle or building.
         (g)   They cannot be discharged within 150 feet of an occupied
dwelling, whether or not a person is actually present.
         (h)   They cannot be discharged while the person is under the
influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a drug.
         (i)   No use of consumer fireworks is permitted on township property,
including without limitation, township owned parks, buildings or structures,
streets, sidewalks and right of way unless such person upon application has
secured a special permit for such activity from the Borough Manager or
designee.
   (M)   Powered model vehicles. Operating or permitting of powered model
vehicles so as to create a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or
in a public space between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following
day.
   (N)   Motor vehicle prohibitions.
      (1)   Exhaust system. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a
muffler or other effective noise suppressing system in good working order and
in constant operation and no muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a
cutout, bypass or similar device.
      (2)   Standing motor vehicles. No person shall operate or permit the
operation of any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached to such a
vehicle, for a period longer than 15 minutes in any hour while the vehicle is
stationary, for reasons other than traffic congestion.
      (3)   Motor vehicle horns and signaling devices. No person shall at any
time sound the horn or other warning device of a vehicle except when necessary
as a warning while actually driving such vehicle.
      (4)   Sound trucks. No person shall operate sound amplifying equipment
mounted on or attached to any motor vehicle:
         (a)   Such that sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a
real property boundary line; or
         (b)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the following day
on a public right-of-way or public space.
      (5)   Sound amplification devices in vehicles. No person, driver, or
owner of any vehicle shall operate or permit operation of any sound amplifying
system which causes a noise disturbance when the vehicle is on a public right-
of-way or public space unless such system is being operated to request
assistance or warn of a hazardous situation. This article does not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
   (O)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or
equipment used in construction, drilling, or demolition work:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day on
weekdays and Saturdays or at any time on Sundays or holidays, such that the
sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary
line, except for emergency work.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Emergencies. The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons
to the existence of an emergency or from the performance of emergency work.
   (B)   Government activity. Any activity being conducted by the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, by the County of Northampton, by the Borough of Tatamy or any
other political subdivision and its contractors.
   (C)   Municipal and utility services. The emission of sound resulting from
the repair or replacement of any municipal or utility installation(s) in or
about the public right-of-way or all municipal collections.
   (D)   Places of religious worship. The sounding or permitting the sounding
of any stationary bell or chime used in conjunction with places of religious
worship.
   (E)   Aircraft and airport operations. Normal aircraft and airport
operations.
   (F)   Interstate railway locomotives and cars. The conduct of interstate
railway transportation.
   (G)   Blasting. Only if performed in accordance with a permit issued by the
Borough Fire Marshal or designee. Such blasting may occur only between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday unless specifically authorized
otherwise by the permit.
   (H)   Concerts. Band concerts, carnivals or other performances or similar
activities publicly or privately sponsored and presented in any public or
private space outdoors, so long as: all necessary permits as defined by the
borough's ordinances have been procured. Shall be limited to six occasions in a
single location within a single calendar year, January 1 to December 31.
   (I)   Amusement parks, carnival, fairs, and similar activities. Sound/noises
typical for and resulting from typical amusement park activities including but
not limited to rides, concerts, events and patrons.
   (J)   Amplified announcements. Sound/noises created by organized school-
related programs, activities, athletics and entertainment events or public
programs, activities, or events.
   (K)   Celebrations. Sound/noises made by bells; chimes carillons used for
religious purposes or in conjunction with national, state, or local
celebrations or public holidays: existing bells, chimes, carillons, and clock
strike mechanisms that are currently in use for any purpose.
   (L)   Snow blowers. Sound/noises made by snow blowers or similar snow
removal equipment used in the maintenance of private or public property
following a snowstorm.
   (M)   Assemblies, parades, gatherings. Any assembly, parade or gathering
that has been approved by the Township for such event.
   (N)   Agricultural/farming. Any sound/noise that is typically associated
with normal agricultural/farming activities.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.06 REGULATIONS.
   The Borough Manager or designee may publish regulations governing the
procedures and enforcement of any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Borough of
Tatamy police officers, manager, or any other public officer/code enforcer
authorized to enforce ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter may be cause at the
discretion of the issuing officer, to issue a warning, a notice of violation, a
violation ticket and/or a citation to be issued to the violator. If violations
are continuous or egregious, the officers have the right to issue citations
without first issuing a warning, a notice of violation or a violation ticket.
   (C)   A written warning, notice of violation or violation ticket shall be
served upon a violator by handing it to the violator, by handing it at the
residence of the person to be served to an adult member of the household or
other person in charge of the residence, by leaving or affixing the written
warning, notice of violation or violation ticket to the property where the
violation exists, by handing it at any office or usual place of business of the
violator, to an agent or to the person for the time being in charge thereof, or
by mailing via regular US mail, the written warning, notice of violation or
violation ticket to the violator's address of record.
   (D)   Any written warnings, notice of violations, violation tickets and/or
citations will be issued to the violator's last known address of record.
   (E)   Each day a violation continues or is permitted to continue may
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.08 VIOLATION TICKET APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   An Appeal Officer, designated by the Borough Manager, Borough Council
or designee, shall be responsible for the reviewing and the rendering of a
decision on any appeal as it pertains to this chapter.
   (B)   A person in receipt of a violation ticket may appeal to the Appeal
Officer's office by filing an appeal request in writing on a form to be
provided by the Borough within ten calendar days of the date of the violation
ticket, stating the reasons for appeal.
   (C)   The violator may request an opportunity to meet in person with the
Appeal Officer concerning their appeal, and the request may be granted at the
sole discretion of the Appeal Officer, who may also deem it appropriate to
consult with the issuing officer(s) involved in the matter or any other
concerned parties.
   (D)   Within 30 days of the appeal date, the Appeal Officer may decide to
uphold the appeal, deny the appeal, or may modify the violation ticket and/or
any associated costs, fines or penalty amounts as they deem appropriate and
will issue written notice of the decision.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation ticket fines.
      (1)   Each violation of the sections of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense and fine.
      (2)   Fines shall be $100 for violations under this chapter.
   (B)   Violation ticket penalties.
      (1)   If the person in receipt of a violation ticket does not pay the
fine or appeal the violation within ten days, the person will be subject to an
additional $25 penalty for days 11 through 20.
      (2)   A citation shall be issued against any person failing to make
payment or request a hearing within ten days of the issuance of a violation
ticket.
   (C)   Citation fines. Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the terms or provisions of this
chapter, or of any regulation or requirement pursuant hereto and authorized
hereby shall, upon conviction, be ordered to pay a fine of not less than $100
and not more than $1,000 on each offense or imprisoned no more than 90 days, or
both.
   (D)   Restitution. The Magisterial District Judge may order the violator to
make restitution where appropriate, to pay the township's costs of collection/
citation proceedings and to pay the township reasonable attorneys' fees
associated with the prosecution of the same.
(Ord. 289-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
CHAPTER 97: FIREWORKS PERMIT AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Short title
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Permit required
   
97.04   Requirements for display fireworks
   
97.05   Application procedures; fee
   
97.06   Display fireworks permit issuance; transferability
   
97.07   Notification for fire protection
   
97.08   Bond required
   
97.09   Denial, suspension and revocation of permit; approval
   
97.10   Permit continuance
   
97.11   Disposal of unfired fireworks
   
97.12   Consumer fireworks; conditions of use
   
97.13   Exemptions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Fireworks Permit and Regulations
Ordinance."
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed unless a contrary
meaning is expressly set forth in the text.
   APA 87-1-THE AMERICAN PYROTECHNICS ASSOCIATION STANDARD 87-1. Standard for
Construction and Approval for Transportation of Fireworks, Novelties, and
Theatrical Pyrotechnics, 2001 edition, or any subsequent edition.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or
combination of substances which is intended to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, is suitable for use by the public, complies with the
construction, performance, composition and labeling requirements promulgated by
the Consumer Products Safety Commission in 16 CFR (relating to commercial
practices) or any successor regulation and complies with the provisions for
CONSUMER FIREWORKS as defined in APA 87-l or any successor standard, the sale,
possession and use of which shall be permitted throughout the borough.
      (2)   The term does not include devices as "ground and hand-held
sparkling devices, "novelties" or "toy caps" in APA 87-l or any successor
standard, the sale, possession, and use of which shall be permitted at all
times throughout the borough.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks to be used solely by professional
pyrotechnicians and designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. The term includes, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Salutes that contain more than two grains or 130 milligrams of
explosive materials;
      (2)   Aerial shells containing more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic
compositions; and
      (3)   Other display pieces that exceed the limits of explosive materials
for classification as Consumer Fireworks and are classified as fireworks
UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 under 49 CRF 172.101 (relating to purpose and use of
hazardous materials table).
   DISPLAY(S) OF FIREWORKS OR FIREWORKS DISPLAY. The ignition, launching or
detonation of fireworks.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect for entertainment purposes by combustion, deflagration or
detonation that meets the definition of CONSUMER FIREWORKS or DISPLAY FIREWORKS
as set forth herein.
   NFPA 1124. The National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124, Code for
the Manufacture, Transportation and Storage of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic
Articles, 2006 edition, or any subsequent edition.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Any manmade object having an ascertainable stationary
location on, below or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land,
designed for, and constructed for living and/or sleeping purposes by any
persons or for the raising and keeping of livestock, poultry, or insects for
commercial or domestic purposes.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firms or corporations,
amusement parks, fair associations or other organizations or groups of
individuals to utilize display fireworks within the limits of Tatamy Borough,
Northampton County, Pennsylvania ("borough") unless exempt or a permit
therefore is first granted by the borough, as hereinafter provided. All permits
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to compliance with Act 43 of
2017, Article XIV, Sections 940 l through 9416.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Every such use of display fireworks within the limits of said borough
shall be handled by a state-licensed operator, and which display shall be of
such character and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
Borough Council, or its duly authorized representative, after proper
inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons.
   (B)   No display fireworks shall be ignited within 300 feet of a firework
sale facility or temporary structure for sale of consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.05 APPLICATION PROCEDURES; FEE.
   (A)   Application for permits for display fireworks shall be made in writing
to the Borough Manager, or Police Chief or Zoning Officer or his/her designee,
at least 30 days in advance of the date of the fireworks display, unless said
time period is reduced or waived by the Borough Council in its sole discretion.
The application shall set forth the proposed location of the fireworks display,
the character thereof, name and address of the operator, and the name and
address of the owner or owners of the grounds on which the fireworks display is
to be held, with the consent of such owner or owners thereto in writing
attached.
   (B)   In addition to all other application requirements set forth herein,
permit applications for display fireworks shall also include a copy of the
operator's license issued by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives and a copy of the operator's annual registration with the Attorney
General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   (C)   All applicants shall pay the borough a sum as set from time to time by
resolution of the Borough Council before issuance of a permit and provide a
certificate of liability insurance in an amount not less than $5,000,000,
naming the borough as an additional insured.
   (D)   If the application does not conform to the requirements of all
pertinent statutes, ordinances and regulations, the Borough Manager or Police
Chief or Zoning Officer or his/her designee shall reject the application and,
in writing, state the reasons, therefore. If the Borough Manager or Police
Chief or Zoning Officer or his/her designee is satisfied that the proposed
display fireworks conforms to the requirements of this chapter, and all laws
and regulations applicable thereto, he/she shall issue a permit listing any
conditions, if necessary.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.06 DISPLAY FIREWORKS PERMIT ISSUANCE; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   If and after such permit shall have been granted by the borough, or
its designee, possession and use of display fireworks shall be lawful for that
purpose only.
   (B)   No display fireworks permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   (C)   The Borough Council may attach to the display fireworks permit any
conditions deemed necessary and appropriate by the Borough Council to address
safety concerns.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.07 NOTIFICATION FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   The permittee shall:
   (A)   Ensure that proper fire protection is or will be provided during the
use of display fireworks; and
   (B)   Notify Tatamy Borough Volunteer Fire Company no less than 14 days
prior to the date of the fireworks display.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.08 BOND REQUIRED.
   The Borough Council shall require a bond, deemed adequate by it, given by
the permittee in an amount deemed appropriate by the Borough Council, but not
in a sum less than $250,000 for display fireworks, conditioned for the payment
of all damages caused by any person or persons and to any property by reason of
the licensed display and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or its
agents, employees or subcontractors, which bond shall be filed with the Borough
Manager or Police Chief or Zoning Officer, or his/her designee, before any
permit for display fireworks is issued.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.09 DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   After notice to the permittee and an opportunity to be heard (within
five days of the date of the notice), the Borough Council may revoke a display
fireworks permit or approval issued under the provisions of this chapter in the
case of any false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application, or
failure of the applicant to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or any
other applicable statute or regulation.
   (B)   Appeals from any suspension, revocation or denial of a display
fireworks permit may be made to the Northampton County Court of Common Pleas
pursuant to the provisions of the Local Agency Law, 2 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 751 et seq.
   (C)   In the event that a permit or application has been denied, suspended,
or revoked, no part of the application/permit fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.10 PERMIT CONTINUANCE.
   (A)   If by reason of unfavorable weather, the display for which a display
fireworks permit has been granted does not take place at the time so
authorized, the permittee may within seven days apply to the Borough Manager or
Police Chief or Zoning Officer, or his/her designee, setting forth under oath
the fact that such display was not made, giving the reason therefor, and
requesting a continuance of such display fireworks permit for a day designated
therein, not later than one week after the day fixed originally in said permit.
   (B)   Upon receiving such application for a continuance, the Borough Manager
or Police Chief or Zoning Officer, or his/her designee, if he or she believes
the facts stated herein are true, shall extend the provisions of the display
fireworks permit to the day fixed in said application, not later than one week
after the original day designated in the display fireworks permit. Such
extension of time shall be granted without the payment of any additional fee
and without requiring any bond other than the one given for the original
permit, the provisions of which shall extend to and cover all damages which may
be caused by reason of said display taking place at such extended date in the
same manner and to the same extent as if such display had taken place at the
date originally fixed in the display fireworks permit.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.11 DISPOSAL OF UNFIRED FIREWORKS.
   Unfired fireworks and trash remaining after the conclusion of the use of
display fireworks for which the permit was issued shall be immediately disposed
of by the permittee in an approved, safe manner.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.12 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Any ignition, discharge or use of consumer fireworks must be by a
person who is at least 18 years of age and meets the requirements of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania statute to purchase, possess, and use consumer
fireworks;
   (B)   The ignition or discharge of consumer fireworks is strictly prohibited
except during the following dates and times:
      (1)   Memorial Day: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   July 3: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (3)   July 4: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (4)   July 5: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (5)   Labor Day: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (6)   December 31: 4:00 p.m. to 11:59 p.m.
      (7)   January 1: 12:00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m.
      (8)   January 1: 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Prohibition. A person may not intentionally ignite or discharge:
      (1)   Consumer fireworks on public or private property without the
express written permission of the owner;
      (2)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices within, or throw consumer
fireworks or sparkling devices from a motor vehicle or building;
      (3)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices into or at a motor vehicle
or building or at another person;
      (4)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices while the person is under
the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, or another drug;
      (5)   Consumer fireworks within 150 feet of an occupied structure.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   Borough of Tatamy and the Tatamy Volunteer Fire Company, or its successor,
shall be exempt from the permitting requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department, Code
Enforcement Officer with jurisdiction in the borough.
   (B)   A person using consumer fireworks in violation of the provisions of
this chapter commits a summary offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, association, or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter pertaining to display fireworks shall be the subject
of such penalties as set forth by the legislature in Act 43 of 2017, 72 P.S. §
9414, as amended.
(Ord. 291-2022, passed 7-5-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   YARD SALES
      
111.   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: YARD SALES
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Yard sales
   
110.04   Signs
   
110.05   Frequency and duration limitations
   
110.06   Exemption
   
110.07   Fees for permit
   
110.08   Enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The borough finds that perpetual, prolonged and extended yard sales, if
continued indefinitely, tend to become retail businesses in residential areas
and zones, create noise, traffic congestion, unsightly signage and other
nuisances, and often violate the zoning regulations of the borough. The rules
and regulations contained herein are designed to control and restrict yard
sales in order to protect the public health, safety and convenience of the
citizens of the borough and to restrict sales to casual or occasional
occurrences only, in keeping with the character of the residential
neighborhoods of the borough.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy.
   PERMIT. The form that must be obtained, completed and submitted together
with the respective fee to the Borough Secretary/Treasurer prior to conducting
a yard sale.
   PERSON. Any natural person or persons, association, partnership, firm,
corporation, civic group, school group, church group, charitable or fraternal
organization, and other nonprofit organization or other entity.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Tangible property which is owned, utilized and maintained
by an individual or members of a residence or acquired in the normal course of
living in or maintaining a residence, such as, but not limited to, household
items, clothing, tools, toys, recreation equipment or other used or secondhand
items normally found in and about the home. PERSONAL PROPERTY shall not include
any tangible property purchased or acquired for the purpose of resale during
the yard sale.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Includes, but not limited to, the residential
properties themselves and any residence, garage, barn, home, shed, lawn, porch
or yard attached to or serving any residential property.
   YARD SALE. Any public sale of personal property on residential property by
any person whether accomplished by direct sale or auction.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 110.03 YARD SALES.
   It shall be unlawful to hold any yard sale or permit a yard sale to be held
within the borough on residential property without first obtaining a yard sale
permit from the borough and to otherwise comply with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SIGNS.
   No person conducting a yard sale within the borough shall post signs prior
to one calendar day before the yard sale and shall remove such signs regarding
such yard sale from within the borough no later than the last day of the yard
sale. Signs shall be limited in number to two signs. Signs shall not exceed
four square feet. Advertising for a sale may be placed without charge on the
community bulletin board located within the borough Municipal Building.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 FREQUENCY AND DURATION LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   To hold more than three yard sales per residential property in any
calendar year unless there is a change in ownership of the residential
property, in which case a maximum of four sales shall be permitted in a
calendar year;
   (B)   To hold a yard sale which lasts more than three consecutive calendar
days;
   (C)   To hold a yard sale commencing on a date more than 15 days after the
issuance of the permit for that yard sale;
   (D)   To not display the permit issued under this chapter prominently on the
residential property upon which the yard sale is conducted throughout the
entire period of the permitted sale;
   (E)   To hold the yard sale on dates not specified on the permit;
   (F)   To hold a yard sale within 30 days after the close of any prior yard
sale on each residential property;
   (G)   To hold yard sales at any time other than between the hours of 6:00
a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; or
   (H)   To allow items offered for sale or used for display during the yard
sale to remain in sight of the public more than 24 hours prior to and after the
final date of the yard sale.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to the sale of vehicles, motorcycles,
appliances, tires or other similar items either advertised in a newspaper or
advertised directly on the item; provided that such sale shall be limited to
one item or if such items are normally sold in a set then one set of such
items. Further the sale of such items shall last no more than 14 days and then
must be removed from sight and sale for at least 30 consecutive days. This
exception cannot be used on any residential property more than three times in
any calendar year.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 110.07 FEES FOR PERMIT.
   The following fees shall apply to all yard sales, to wit.
   (A)   There shall be no fee for the first permit issued to a residential
property within any calendar year.
   (B)   The fee for the second and third permit issued to a residential
property within the same calendar year as the first permit shall be set
annually by Borough Council on its fee schedule.
   (C)   If a yard sale is not held on the dates for which the permit is issued
or is terminated during the first date of the sale because of inclement weather
conditions, the borough shall issue another permit to the applicant for a yard
sale to be conducted at the same location within 30 days from the date when the
first sale was to be held. No additional permit fee is required.
   (D)   All permit fees shall be paid to the Borough Secretary/Treasurer prior
to issuance of the permit.
   (E)   Any nonprofit service organization or charitable organization may
obtain up to two yard sale permits in any calendar year without payment of fee.
   (F)   Should the borough declare a borough wide yard sale, it shall not
count towards the three permit sales. Further, there will be no permit charge
for a borough wide yard sale.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 110.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to act on behalf of the
borough.
   (B)   Automobiles or pedestrians may not be allowed to impede traffic on any
adjoining road/roads. If traffic on any road is impeded, or a dangerous
condition develops on any road, police officers may immediately suspend the
permit and close the sale for the balance of that day.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 and prosecution costs for
the first offense; $100 plus prosecution costs for the second offense; $300 for
the third offense and any offense thereafter. Individuals conducting a yard
sale and the owner or tenant of the premises on which such sale or activity is
conducted shall be jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of
good order and decorum on the premises during all hours of such sale or
activity. No such individual shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on
said premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any
member of the Police or Fire Department of the borough in order to maintain the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the borough.
(Ord. 264-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required; conditions of issuance; fee
   
111.03   Exceptions
   
111.04   License application
   
111.05   Issuance of license; custody, display and exhibit
   
111.06   Prohibited acts
   
111.07   Supervision; records and reports
   
111.08   Suspension and revocation of license; appeal
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS.
      (1)   Peddling, soliciting or taking orders, either by sample or
otherwise for any goods, wares or merchandise, upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or public ground, or from house to house, within the borough; or
      (2)   Selling, soliciting or taking orders for any goods, wares or
merchandise, from a fixed location within the borough, on a temporary basis,
including, but not limited to, such activities conducted at the time of special
occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for or in advance of
specific yearly holidays.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE; FEE.
   No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the borough
without first having obtained from the Borough Secretary/Treasurer or the
Secretary/Treasurer’s designee a license, the fee for which shall be for the
use of the borough and shall be charged as follows:
 
One day  $10
One week $25
 
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No license fee shall be charged for the following:
      (1)   Farmers selling their own produce;
      (2)   The sale of goods, wares and merchandise which have been donated by
the owners when the proceeds of sale are to be given to any charitable or
philanthropic entity;
      (3)   Any manufacturer or producer of bread and bakery products, meat and
meat products, or milk and milk products;
      (4)   Children under the age of 18 years who take orders for and deliver
newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products and the like, or who
represent Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts or similar organizations;
      (5)   Insurance agents or brokers licensed under the insurance laws of
the commonwealth;
      (6)   Taking orders for merchandise, by sample, for dealers or merchants
by individuals or companies who pay a license or business privilege tax at
their chief place of business; or
      (7)   Persons working without compensation and selling goods, wares or
merchandise for the sole benefit of any nonprofit corporation.
   (B)   All persons exempted from payment of a license fee under this section
shall be required to register with the Borough’s Secretary/Treasurer or
Secretary/Treasurer’s designee and obtain a license without a fee; provided,
any person dealing in one or more of the above mentioned exempted categories,
in dealing with other goods, wares or merchandise not so exempted, shall be
subject to the payment of the license fee fixed by §
111.02 for his or her activities or in connection with the sale of goods, wares
and merchandise not in such exempted categories.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall first make
application to the Borough Secretary/Treasurer or Secretary/Treasurer’s
designee for such license. He or she shall, when making such application
exhibit a valid license from any state or county office, if such license is
also required.
   (B)   The applicant shall state:
      (1)   Any criminal record;
      (2)   The name and address of his or her employer;
      (3)   Types of goods, wares, merchandise to be peddled;
      (4)   Length of time for the license to be issued; and
      (5)   Type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CUSTODY, DISPLAY AND EXHIBIT.
   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee, the Borough’s
Secretary/Treasurer or Secretary/Treasurer’s designee shall issue the license
required. Such license shall contain the information required to be given on
the application. Every license holder shall carry such license on his or her
person if engaged in transient retail business from house to house or upon any
of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds of the borough, or display
such license at the location where he or she shall engage in such business if
doing so at a fixed location. The license shall be exhibited upon request to
all police officers, municipal officials, and citizens or residents of the
borough.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person in any transient retail business shall:
   (A)   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in this license;
   (B)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public grounds in the municipality;
   (C)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   Park any vehicle upon any of the streets, or alleys in the borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging, cleaning any of the goods, wares, or
merchandise, or for disposing of any carton, wrapping material or stock, wares
or food stocks which have become unsaleable through handling, age or otherwise;
or
   (E)   Engage in any business activity, except by prior appointment, at any
time on a Sunday or legal holiday or at any time before 10:00 a.m. or after 6:
00 p.m. on any day of the week if other than Sunday or a legal holiday.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 SUPERVISION; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Borough’s Secretary/Treasurer or Secretary/Treasurer’s designee shall
supervise the activities of all persons holding licenses under this chapter.
The Secretary/Treasurer or Secretary/Treasurer’s designee shall keep a record
of all licenses issued and shall make a report of such licenses each month to
the Borough Council.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.08 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   The Borough’s Secretary/Treasurer or Secretary/Treasurer’s designee is
hereby authorized to suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter
when deemed such suspension or revocation to be beneficial to the public
health, safety or welfare for violation of any provision of this chapter, or
for giving false information upon any application for a license. Appeals from
any suspension or revocation of a license may be made to the Borough Council at
any time within ten days after such suspension or revocation. No part of a
license fee shall be refunded to any person whose license shall have been
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not more
than $300 and/or to imprisonment of not more than 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this chapter continues such constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 236-2008, passed 12-1-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Short title
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
   
130.04   Responsibility of owners of public places
   
130.05   Parent’s responsibility
   
130.06   Special functions
   
130.07   Procedures
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Ordinance Regulating
the Presence and Conduct of Minors on Streets and Public Places”.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number, the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 18 who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
   GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain, idle, wander, stroll or play
in any public place either on foot or to cruise about without a set destination
in any vehicle, in, about or upon any place in the borough between the hours of
those days designated by the Borough Council and/or the Mayor of the borough
after giving at least 24-hours’ notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the borough unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having custody or control of such minor or unless the minor is on an
emergency errand or specific business or activity directed or permitted by his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
the minor or where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
under the age of 18 years between the hours on those days as specified by the
Borough Council.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
custody or control of any minor under the age of 18 to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on the streets or sidewalks or
on or in any public property or public place within the borough between the
hours on those days specified by the Borough Council. However, the provisions
of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having the care, custody or control
of the minor, or if the minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor or if the parent, guardian or other
adult person herein has made a missing person notification to the Police
Department.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 SPECIAL FUNCTIONS.
   Any minor attending a special function or entertainment of any church,
school, club or other organization that requires such minor to be out at a
later hour than that called for in §
130.03 shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
130.03, 130.04 and 130.05; provided the church, school, club or other
organization shall register in advance with Chief of Police or his or her
designate to have the minors stay out to this later hour. The registrant shall
state the time the function or entertainment shall end, and the minors who
attend the function shall be required to be in their homes or usual places of
abode within one-quarter hour after the function is ended.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 130.07 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any police officer upon finding a minor in violation of §
130.03 shall ascertain the name and address of such minor and warn the minor
that he or she is in violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to proceed
at once to his or her home or usual place of abode. The police officer shall
report such action to the Chief of the Police Department who in turn shall
notify the parents, guardian or other person having custody or control of such
minor.
   (B)   If such minor refuses to heed such warning or direction by any police
officer or refuses to give such police officer his or her correct name and
address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she
is in violation of curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Police Department
and the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
such minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian or other adult person above cannot be located or fails to come
and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any minor violating any provision of this chapter shall be dealt with in
accordance with the juvenile court law and procedure. Any parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care and custody of a minor violating any
provision of this chapter, after having previously been notified under §
130.07, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $100 and costs of prosecution for each and every offense.
(Ord. 115-1980, passed 9-2-1980)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
131.02   Use of air rifles, bow and arrow or similar devices restricted
   
131.03   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in
§
131.03, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire or discharge any gun
or other firearm within the borough.
(Ord. 189, passed 12-6-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 USE OF AIR RIFLES, BOW AND ARROW OR SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire or discharge any gun,
firearm, air rifle, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, bow and
arrow, or similar device, or any implement that is not a firearm but which
impels a pellet of any kind with a force that can reasonably be expected to
cause bodily harm, at any place within the borough, except as provided in §
131.03, and except on a target range which is properly constructed to trap or
stop the projectile as ascertained by borough police.
(Ord. 189, passed 12-6-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Persons licensed to hunt in this commonwealth while actually engaged
in hunting where permitted under the laws of the commonwealth;
   (B)   Members of any organization incorporated under laws of this
commonwealth engaged in target shooting upon the grounds or property belonging
to or under the control of such organization; and
   (C)   Any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties.
(Ord. 189, passed 12-6-2000)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300, and/or to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 189, passed 12-6-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
153.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Landlords providing list of tenants
   
150.02   Requirement of moving permit
Codes Adopted
   
150.15   Adoption of International Existing Building Code, International Fire
Code, International Building Code, International Energy Conservation Code,
International Mechanical Code, International Code Council Electrical Code,
International Plumbing Code, International Property Maintenance Code,
International Fuel Gas Code and International Residential Code
Grading of Land
   
150.30   Title
   
150.31   Regulated activities
   
150.32   Unlawful acts
   
150.33   Effect on other permits
   
150.34   Application for a permit
   
150.35   Nonassumption of liability
   
150.36   Specifications and requirements
   
150.37   Approval of permits
   
150.38   Regulations for permit holders and others
   
150.39   Inspections
   
150.40   Revocation or suspension
   
150.41   Remedies
   
150.42   Checklist
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood prevention, see Ch. 152
   Stormwater management, see Ch. 153
   Subdivision and land development, see Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 LANDLORDS PROVIDING LIST OF TENANTS.
   (A)   Effective as of July, 1987, every owner of real estate in the borough
who rents or leases any parcel thereof, in whole or in part, to any other
person or entity, shall make one filing with the Borough Secretary/Treasurer at
the Borough Municipal Building, 423 Broad Street, P.O. Box 218, Tatamy,
Northampton County, Pennsylvania, of a written certified list of all persons or
entities who presently rent or lease real estate from the said owner. The said
list shall include the names and addresses of all such persons or entities and
shall be filed with the Borough Secretary/Treasurer to be received no later
than July 30, 1987. In addition to the requirement of the aforesaid filing,
every such owner of real estate shall file a separate certified written list
with the Borough Secretary/Treasurer within 30 days of the date of any change
in the person or entity so renting or leasing or within 30 days of the date of
any additional person or entity so renting or leasing the subject premises.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the fact that an owner of real
estate rents or leases any property for minimal or no rent to another person or
entity shall not excuse the said owner from the filing of the certified lists
required in this section.
(Ord. 134-1987, passed 7-6-1987) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 REQUIREMENT OF MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person or persons, firm or corporation, shall move or cause to be
moved, from any place outside the borough to another place within the limits
thereof or from any place within the borough to another place beyond the limits
thereof, any household goods in bulk without first securing from the Secretary/
Treasurer of the Council of the borough a permit for such moving or
transportation.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation desiring such a permit for
the removal or transportation of household goods in the manner above described,
shall make application to the Secretary/Treasurer of the Council of the borough
setting forth the individual’s name and address, the names of the owners or
reputed owners of the property to be moved and the address of the destination
of the property to be moved.
   (C)   The Secretary/Treasurer of Borough Council shall upon application
being made as provided in division (B) above, issue a permit for which a charge
of $5 will be made, setting forth the name of the permitee as well as the name
or names of the owners of the goods to be moved and the address from which the
goods are to be moved and the address to which the goods are to be delivered.
This permit shall be signed by the Secretary/Treasurer of the Council of the
borough.
(Ord. 130-1986, passed 5-21-1986) Penalty, see §
150.99
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL FIRE
CODE, INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE,
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE, INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL ELECTRICAL CODE,
INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE,
INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE AND INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference.
      (1)   The borough hereby adopts by reference, the building code known as
the Pennsylvania Construction Code as set forth in the Pennsylvania
Construction Code Act 45 of 1999, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Secretary/Treasurer of the borough, as well as International
Existing Building Code, International Fire Code, International Building Code,
International Energy Conservation Code, International Mechanical Code,
International Code Council Electrical Code, International Plumbing Code,
International Property Maintenance Code, International Fuel Gas Code and
International Residential Code for the purposes of establishing rules and
regulations, for the construction, alteration, equipment, fire protection and
safety of buildings and structures, including administration, building permits
and penalties, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Pennsylvania Construction Code, are hereby referred
to adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set forth in this code of
ordinances, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, and
the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as set out at length
herein. From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and
structures, and in all other subjects therein contained, within the corporate
limits of the borough.
      (2)   (a)   The borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S.
§§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its
regulations.
         (b)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters
401 through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference as the Municipal Building Code of the borough.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized to store farm implements,
hay, feed, grain or other agricultural or horticultural products or to house
poultry, livestock or other farm animals. The term shall not include habitable
space, spaces in which agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged
and shall not be construed to mean a place of occupancy by the general public.
      BOARD OF APPEALS. The body created by a municipality or more than one
municipality to hear appeals from decisions of the Code Administrator as
provided for by the International Codes.
      BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
      CODE ADMINISTRATOR. A municipal code official, a construction code
official, a third party agency or the Department of Labor and Industry.
      CONSTRUCTION CODE OFFICIAL. An individual certified by the Department of
Labor and Industry in an appropriate category established pursuant to 35 P.S. §
7210.701(b) to perform plan review of construction documents, inspect
construction or administer and enforce codes and regulations in such code
category under this Act or related acts.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Labor and Industry of the commonwealth.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces and similar areas shall not be construed as HABITABLE SPACES.
      HEALTH CARE FACILITY. As defined in 35 P.S. § 448.802a, known as the
Health Care Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 448.101 to 448.904b.
      ICC. The International Code Council.
      INDUSTRIALIZED HOUSING. The term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
the Industrialized Housing Act (35 P.S. §§ 1651.1 to 1651.12).
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Housing which bears a label, as required by and
referred to in the Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards
Authorization Act (35 P.S. §§ 1651.1 to 1651.12).
      MUNICIPAL CODE OFFICIAL. An individual employed by a municipality or more
than one municipality and certified by the Department of Labor and Industry
under this Act to perform plan review of construction documents, inspect
construction or administer and enforce codes and regulations under this Act or
related acts.
      MUNICIPALITY. A city, borough, incorporated town, township or home rule
municipality.
      NCSBCS. The National Conference of State Building Codes and Standards.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building, or portion thereof, is used.
      TECHNICALLY INFEASIBLE. An alteration of a building or a facility that
has little likelihood of being accomplished because the existing structural
conditions require the removal or alteration of a load-bearing member that is
an essential part of the structural frame, or because other existing physical
or site constraints prohibit modification or addition of elements, spaces or
features which are in full and strict compliance with the minimum requirements
for new construction and which are necessary to provide accessibility.
      THIRD-PARTY AGENCY. A person, firm or corporation certified by the
Department of Labor and Industry as a construction code official and contracted
to perform plan review of construction documents, inspect construction or
administer and enforce codes and regulations under this Act.
      UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE. The code established pursuant to the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act 45 of 1999.
      UTILITY AND MISCELLANEOUS USE STRUCTURES. Buildings or structures of an
accessory character and miscellaneous structures not classified by the Building
Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., in any specific use
group. The term includes carports, detached private garages, greenhouses and
sheds having a building area less than 500 square feet. The term does not
include swimming pools or spas.
   (C)   Administration. This Code shall be administered by and enforced within
the borough by a third party agency which shall be designated by the borough on
an annual basis to act on behalf of the borough for administration and
enforcement of this Act.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the
borough in conformity with the requirements of the relevant provisions of the
Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set forth therein. The
borough shall appoint the members to the Appeals Board. Members of Borough
Council may not serve as members of the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this Act or regulations legally adopted under this Act have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this Act do not fully apply or an
equivalent form of construction is to be used.
      (3)   In the event the borough cannot find individuals to serve on the
Board of Appeals who meet the minimum qualifications as set forth in Code, the
borough may fill the position on the Board with a qualified person who resides
outside of the borough.
   (E)   Considerations of applications and inspections.
      (1)   Applications for construction permits.
         (a)   Every application for a construction permit for one-family and
two-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use structures shall be
granted or denied, in whole or in part, within 15 business days of the filing
date. All other construction permits shall be granted or denied, in whole or in
part, within 30 business days of the filing date. The borough may establish
different time limits to consider applications for construction permits in
historic districts.
         (b)   If an application is denied in whole or in part, the Code
Administrator shall set forth the reasons in writing.
         (c)   If the Code Administrator fails to act on an application for a
construction permit for one-family and two-family dwelling units and utility
and miscellaneous use structures within the time prescribed, the application
shall be deemed approved. The time limits established in this section for
permit applications other than one-family and two-family dwellings may be
extended upon agreement in writing between the applicant and the municipality
and Code Enforcement Officer for a specific number of additional days.
         (d)   The Code Administrator shall submit a copy of the report to the
borough. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building unless it
meets all of the provisions of the Uniform Construction Code or has been
granted a variance for the requirements it does not meet.
      (2)   Highway occupancy permit.
         (a)   No building permit shall be issued for any property which will
require access to a highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, unless the permit contains a notice that a highway occupancy
permit is required pursuant to the State Highway Law (35 P.S. §§ 670-101
through 670-1102), before driveway access to a state highway is permitted.
         (b)   The Department of Transportation shall, within 60 days of the
date of receipt of an application for a highway occupancy permit:
            1.   Approve the permit;
            2.   Deny the permit;
            3.   Return the application for additional information or
correction to conform with regulations of the Department of Transportation; or
            4.   Determine that no permit is required, in which case the
Department of Transportation shall notify the municipality and applicant in
writing.
         (c)   1.   If the Department of Transportation fails to take any
action within the 60-day period, the permit shall be deemed to be issued. The
permit shall be marked to indicate that access to the state highway shall be
only as authorized by a highway occupancy permit.
            2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (E)(2)(c)1. above,
if the highway occupancy permit requires a determination by the United States
Department of Transportation, the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
shall have 60 days from the receipt of the determination to take action on the
permit or the permit shall be deemed to be issued.
         (d)   1.   Neither the Department of Transportation nor any
municipality to which permit-issuing authority has been delegated under § 420
of the State Highway Law shall be liable in damages for any injury to persons
or property arising out of the issuance or denial of a driveway permit, or for
failure to regulate any driveway.
            2.   The municipality from which the building permit approval has
been requested shall not be held liable for damages to persons or property
arising out of the issuance or denial of a driveway permit by the Department of
Transportation.
      (3)   Financial interest prohibited. A Code Administrator shall not
review or approve any plans for or construction of any building or structure in
which the Code Administrator has any financial interest.
   (F)   Fees.
      (1)   The borough shall assess fees for the administration and
enforcement undertaken pursuant to this section and the Code.
      (2)   The fees shall be set by the Borough Council by resolution from
time to time.
(Ord. 205, passed 12-1-2003; Ord. 210, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
GRADING OF LAND
§ 150.30 TITLE.
   The name of the subchapter shall be the “Tatamy Borough Earth Disturbance
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.31 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Earth moving and grading including, but not limited to, removal of
vegetation and/or changes in topography are activities regulated by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Earth moving and grading activities shall be subject to the
requirements of state soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations, the
borough zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, the borough subdivision and land
development ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances), and the borough floodplain ordinance (
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances), and the borough stormwater management
ordinance
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances) whether or not it is regulated by this
subchapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this section, no
permit shall be required pursuant to this subchapter in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Earth disturbance for the purposes of normal agricultural
operations, gardening and topsoil preparation for planting of grass or other
vegetative groundcover;
      (2)   Earth disturbance for the purposes of residential accessory
structures or residential accessory uses where the aggregate area of earth
disturbance at any one time does not exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   One thousand square feet when the earth disturbance is no closer
than 20 feet to a lot line;
         (b)   One thousand five hundred square feet for lots smaller than one
acre in size when the earth disturbance is no closer than 20 feet to a lot
line, top of bank of any stream or watercourse, wetland, riparian corridor or
steep slope, (that is greater than 15%);
         (c)   Two thousand square feet for lots of one acre in size or larger
but smaller than three acres in size when the earth disturbance is no closer
than 50 feet to a lot line, top of bank of any stream or watercourse, wetland,
riparian corridor or steep slope, (that is greater than 15%); and
         (d)   Four thousand square feet for lots of three acres in size or
larger but smaller than five acres when the earth disturbance is no closer than
50 feet to a lot line, top of bank of any stream or watercourse, wetland,
riparian corridor or steep slope, (that is greater than 15%).
      (3)   Earth disturbance, for any purpose, no closer than 100 feet to a
lot line, top of bank of any stream or watercourse, wetland, riparian corridor
or steep slope, (that is greater than 15%) regardless of the size of the lot;
and
      (4)   Earth disturbance necessary for the construction or repair of
public utilities and/or roads by public agencies, and/or Public Utility
Commission regulated utility companies.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.32 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to undertake any of
the following activities without first securing a permit, as required, pursuant
to this subchapter:
   (A)   To remove vegetated ground cover or improved ground cover;
   (B)   To cut, fill or change the existing grade of any land;
   (C)   To disturb, modify, block, divert or affect the existing overland or
subsurface flow of stormwater; and
   (D)   To construct, erect or install any dam, ditch, culvert, drainpipe,
bridge or any other obstruction affecting the drainage of any property, or
portion thereof.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 EFFECT ON OTHER PERMITS.
   Whenever any proposed activity requires a building and/or driveway permit,
no such building or driveway permit shall be issued unless the permit required
hereunder has been issued. The plans and applications required herein may be
combined, when applicable, with plans and applications materials submitted for
building and/or driveway permits.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.34 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation proposing to engage in activity
requiring a permit hereunder shall initially complete the lot grading checklist
in §
150.42 and shall apply for a permit by written application which shall include
the applicant’s agreement to comply with the regulations in §
150.36 hereof upon issuance of the permit.
   (B)   The applicant shall consult the borough zoning ordinance, as adopted
by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, subdivision and land development (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances), floodplain ordinance (
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances) and stormwater ordinance (
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances), as prepared, and as may be amended,
which govern the development of land within the borough prior to making
application for a permit under the subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   A separate application shall be required for each earth
disturbance operation.
      (2)   Three copies of all the documents referred to below shall be
submitted with each application. The application forms submitted shall consist
of the forms provided by the borough together with the required fees. All
applications shall be submitted to the Borough Zoning Officer who shall retain
one for borough records and forward two copies of all documents to the Borough
Engineer for initial plan review.
   (D)   The Borough Council shall determine the fees for such permits, from
time to time, by resolution.
   (E)   Any application for an earth disturbance permit shall be accompanied
by a plan showing the following:
      (1)   A topographic survey plan of the site, at a suitable scale of no
less than one inch equals 50 feet and contour interval of no more than two feet
zero inches, prepared by a registered professional land surveyor or registered
professional engineer, including a boundary line survey, the location and
description of vegetative cover, the general location of all major trees (as
defined by the borough zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) and any other pertinent existing
natural or human-made features. Interpolated contours from USGS maps or any
other similar source are not acceptable. The plan size shall be a minimum,
eight and one-fourth inches by 14 inches;
      (2)   This topographic survey plan shall also show existing rights-of-way
and easements;
      (3)   (a)   A site improvement and grading plan of the same size and
scale as division (A)(1) above, showing and describing all changes to the site
including final contours, structures, paving, waste disposal systems and wells.
This improvement and grading information may be combined on the topographic
survey when all information can be clearly and legibly shown.
         (b)   This site improvement and grading plan shall show (on one or
more plans) the following:
            1.   Existing and proposed rights-of-way and easements;
            2.   First floor elevation;
            3.   Driveway grade;
            4.   One hundred-year floodplain limit and elevation;
            5.   The limits of forests (as defined by the borough zoning
ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). Plans should identify the age and
general condition of forest areas (i.e., successional growth, mixed deciduous,
coniferous and the like);
            6.   Delineation of portions of the property containing: slopes 8%
to 15%, 15% to 25%, greater than 25%;
            7.   Wetlands (if any);
            8.   Existing and proposed stormwater management facilities. If new
stormwater management facilities are proposed, the engineering calculations
used to design those facilities shall also be provided;
            9.   Landscape buffers or screens;
            10.   Any upstream watershed draining onto the property, with a
clear description of how stormwater runoff from the upstream watershed will be
accommodated; and
            11.   Intersection clear sight triangles.
      (4)   A written description of soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures (with appropriate plans and specifications), in accordance with 25 Pa.
Code §§ 102.4 and 102.11 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102, Rules and Regulations, Part
I, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, Subpart
C, Protection of Natural Resources, Article II, Water Resources, which shall be
in conformity with the standards and specifications of the borough ordinances;
      (5)   If the proposed activity constitutes a “land development”,
stormwater management calculations prepared in accordance with the requirements
of borough subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) and the stormwater management ordinance
(
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances) shall be prepared and submitted by a
registered professional engineer; and
      (6)   A time schedule stating the anticipated starting and completion
dates of the development sequence, the expected date of completion of
construction of each of the measures referred to in division (E)(4) above, and
the time of exposure of each area prior to the completion of such measures.
   (F)   The site plans required herein shall also be prepared in accordance
with the site plan requirements of the borough, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, and/or other specific requirements of
other ordinances and regulations of the borough that include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Floodplain regulations;
      (2)   Onlot sewage regulations; and
      (3)   Zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.35 NONASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   It is recognized that earth disturbance creates risks of runoff and
soil erosion damage. This subchapter establishes guidelines for reducing these
risks, but in all cases the property owner and their designers, agents and
contractors shall be responsible for any damage directly or indirectly caused
by any activity regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   The public is hereby notified that the borough, borough employees and
borough consultants undertake no responsibility for loss of property, loss of
life or personal injury due to activities regulated by this subchapter, even if
all regulations and ordinances of the borough are followed.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.36 SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions apply for all activity governed by the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (A)   All drainage facilities proposed shall be designed in accordance with
the borough subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) and the borough stormwater management
ordinance (
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   Lot grading shall be in compliance with any subdivision or land
development plans which may have been approved for this property by the
borough. Stormwater runoff shall be directed in the locations anticipated by
the original subdivision and/or land development plan.
   (C)   In the event that the lot is not part of a prior approved subdivision
or land development plan, lots shall be graded to secure proper drainage away
from buildings and, to the extent possible, away from street areas, except
streets where curbs, storm sewer piping system or roadside swales exist. All
drainage provisions shall be designed to efficiently carry surface waters to
the nearest swale, storm drain or natural watercourse. If the aforementioned
facilities do not exist, then in that event, stormwater shall be evenly
dispersed over the lot so as to best promote infiltration of stormwater into
the ground within the boundaries of the subject lot and to minimize impacts to
adjacent properties and roads. The design shall clearly indicate how this will
be achieved.
   (D)   The permittee shall construct and/or install such drainage structures
and/or pipes which are necessary to prevent erosion damage and to
satisfactorily manage surface waters in accordance with 25 Pa. Code Chapter
102, Rules and Regulations, Part I, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, Subpart C. Protection of Natural Resources, Article
II, Water Resources. Any drainage system not operating as planned shall be
corrected at the expense of the applicant.
   (E)   No person, firm or corporation shall modify, fill, excavate or regrade
the land in any manner as to endanger or damage any adjoining public street,
sidewalk, alley or any other public or private property without supporting and
protecting such property from settling, cracking, erosion, sediment, stormwater
pooling or other physical damage or personal injury which might result. Such
activity without the required support or protection will constitute a nuisance
punishable by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   No person, firm or corporation shall deposit or place any debris or
other material whatsoever, or cause such to be thrown or placed, in any
drainage ditch or drainage structure in such a manner as to obstruct free flow.
   (G)   Stockpiling of topsoil shall be protected from erosion.
   (H)   All disturbed areas shall be seeded, sodded and/or planted or
otherwise protected from erosion within 60 days of ground breaking, and shall
be watered, and maintained until growth is well established. If state
regulations require a shorter time, the shorter time shall be required.
   (I)   All permanent grading shall be designed and undertaken to meet the
following criteria:
      (1)   Provide positive surface drainage away from buildings and
structures; and
      (2)   Provide that no cutting or filling, either temporarily or
permanently, shall be allowed to occur within five feet of any side or rear
property line, except at locations where specific grading and/or drainage
easements exist for the purposes of such grading.
   (J)   The permittee shall limit stormwater runoff rate and concentration
from the subject lot to other lands in a manner that will minimize risk of
damage to downstream property owners.
   (K)   Stormwater control facilities shall be designed and constructed to
meet the following criteria:
      (1)   No stormwater runoff shall be diverted as to overload existing
drainage systems or create flooding or the need for additional drainage
structures on other private properties or public land;
      (2)   Stormwater roof drains and any sump pump drains shall not discharge
water directly onto a sidewalk, a lane or a street, or within the street, or
within the street right-of-way and shall not direct water toward improved
portions of adjacent lots (i.e., buildings, driveways, onlot sewer facilities
and the like);
      (3)   Stormwater roof drains and sump pump drains shall be constructed to
disperse the discharge on the lot which is the subject of the application or to
an approved stormwater system; and
      (4)   Any stormwater outlet pipe or structure that discharges water to
the surface of the ground shall be located no closer than 20 feet from a
property line, unless the outlet pipe or structure is discharging into a
drainage channel or swale within a drainage easement that has been designed and
constructed to receive the water discharge from that outlet. Downspout pipes
discharging stormwater runoff from portions of a roof of less than 500 square
feet of roof area shall be exempt from this regulation, if the following
criteria are met:
         (a)   The outlet shall be located no closer than five feet from a
property line;
         (b)   A standard splash pad or apron shall be provided to spread the
flow; and
         (c)   A swale or ground slope shall be provided or available to
protect the immediate adjacent downstream property.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.37 APPROVAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The borough shall review and approve earth disturbance applications
and plans on the form provided by the borough for that purpose. No earth
disturbance permit, building permit or driveway permit shall be issued by the
borough until such time as an earth disturbance application and plans have been
found to be acceptable to the borough. Furthermore, no certificate of occupancy
permit shall be issued by the borough until such time as the borough
determines, by a final inspection, that all earth disturbance has been
completed in general conformity with the approved site improvement and grading
plan.
   (B)   In all cases, the permittee shall be required to undertake all earth
moving and grading activities in accordance with this subchapter and the
approved site improvement and grading plan, whether or not inspection by the
borough is provided and whether or not a certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.38 REGULATIONS FOR PERMIT HOLDERS AND OTHERS.
   (A)   The permittee is responsible for any property damage or personal
injury caused by activity authorized by the permit.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall modify, fill, excavate, pave or
grade land in any manner as to endanger or damage public or private property,
or to cause physical damage or personal injury. All precautions will be taken
to prevent any damage to adjoining streets, sidewalks, building and other
structures which could be caused by settling, cracking, erosion or sediment.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall fail to adequately maintain in
good operating order, any drainage facility on its premises. All watercourses,
drainage ditches, culverts, drainpipes and structures shall be kept open and
free flowing at all times.
   (D)   The owner, from time to time, of any property on which any work has
been done pursuant to a permit issued under this subchapter, shall continuously
maintain and repair all graded surface and anti-erosion devices such as
retaining walls, slopes, drainage structures or means, plants and ground cover,
installed or completed.
   (E)   Permittees shall make adequate provision for dust control.
   (F)   All plans and specifications accompanying any permit application shall
include provisions for both temporary and permanent grading.
   (G)   The installation and maintenance of erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be accomplished in accordance with standards and specifications
established by the County Conservation District.
   (H)   The issuance of an earth disturbance permit shall not negate the owner
and/or permittee’s responsibility of obtaining any other permits or approvals
from any agency, including the borough, which may have jurisdiction over any
aspect of the project.
   (I)   Property corners to be marked prior to final inspection.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.39 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections by the borough may be carried out on a random basis at the
option of the borough.
   (B)   A final inspection shall, at the option of the borough, be conducted
by the borough to verify compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   In all cases, however, the permittee shall be required to undertake
all earthmoving and grading activities in accordance with this subchapter and
the approved site improvement and grading plan, whether or not inspection by
the borough is provided. As-built plans shall be required prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy if the owner or permittee is seeking any change
to the approved site improvement and grading plan.
   (D)   The Borough Council shall appoint the person(s) responsible for
enforcement and field inspection associated with this subchapter.
   (E)   When weather conditions or time of year prevent the permittee from
completing all earth moving and grading activities prior to a request for an
occupancy permit, the borough, on a case by case basis, may issue a temporary
occupancy permit upon satisfaction of all of the following criteria:
      (1)   All final earth moving and soil stabilization that can be completed
is completed;
      (2)   Temporary soil erosion and sedimentation control facilities
properly installed and in good repair;
      (3)   Temporary seeding and mulching of disturbed areas is complete; and
      (4)   The owner provides an agreement to the satisfaction of the Borough
Solicitor to guarantee completion of the earth disturbance within six months of
the date of the agreement.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.40 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked or suspended by the
borough after notice by the borough for:
   (A)   Failure to carry out the soil erosion control or stormwater control
measures described in the application documents and/or failure to satisfy the
provisions of the earth moving and grading and restoration time schedule
described in the application documents or within such reasonable extensions as
may be granted by the borough;
   (B)   Violation of any other condition of the permits;
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter or any other applicable
law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to the work; or
   (D)   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or
creating a nuisance, hazard or endangering human life or the property of
others.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 REMEDIES.
   In the case of any paving, filling, stripping, grading or regrading; any
disturbing, modifying, blocking or diverting the overland or subsurface flow or
stormwater; or any construction, erection and installation of any dam, ditch,
culvert, drainpipe, bridge or any other structure or obstruction affecting the
drainage of any premises, in violation of this subchapter, or any regulations
made pursuant hereto, the proper borough authorities, in addition to other
remedies provided by law, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
against the permittee and/or owner to prevent such unlawful activities; to
restrain correct or abate such violations; to prevent the use of the applicable
premises; to prevent any illegal act, conduct of business or use in or about
such premises. In addition, upon the failure of any permit holder to complete
the control measures specified in approved application, the borough may, after
revoking such permit, proceed to complete such measures itself, and recover the
cost thereof from the permitee and/or owner.
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 CHECKLIST.
Borough of Tatamy
Lot Grading Checklist
Borough of Tatamy
Lot Grading Checklist
This checklist shall be completed at the time that an application for a lot
grading permit or a building permit is received by the Zoning Officer.
Check the appropriate block for answers to the following questions regarding
the proposed development or lot grading.
Yes No Question
       Is there a known drainage problem in the area of proposed grading
       change?
       Will the proposed grading or development involve any new stormwater
       facilities or revisions to existing stormwater facilities?
       Will the proposed grading or development create a substantial difference
       to the existing elevation or drainage patterns on the involved or
       adjacent properties?
       Will the proposed grading or development require a waiver of any setback
       requirements or stormwater easement restrictions?
       Is the total area of the disturbance greater than 1,500 square feet?
If any of the above questions is answered yes, then either:
1.   The Borough Engineer shall review the application to determine if a lot
grading permit is required; or
2.   The Borough Engineer or the Zoning Officer may require notes regarding
grading to be placed on a building permit without requiring a lot grading
permit to be issued.
 
(Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Every owner of real estate who fails to so comply with the
requirements of §
150.01 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a summary offense and be liable for
a fine not exceeding $300 and, in default thereof, imprisonment not exceeding
ten days in the county prison. For purposes of §
150.01, every day that an owner of real estate is late in filing the said
certified written lists, as required above, shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
150.02, or furnishing false information to the Secretary/Treasurer of the
Council of the borough, or using false names or addresses, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $100.
   (D)   (1)   Any individual, firm or corporation that violates any provision
of §
150.15 commits a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to
pay a fine or not more than $1,000 and costs.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of this act continues shall be considered
a separate violation.
   (E)   (1)   For any and every violation of the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.42:
         (a)   The permittee, owner, agent or contractor where such violation
has been committed or shall exist;
         (b)   The lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises
where such violation has been committed or shall exist;
         (c)   The permittee, owner, agent, contractor, lessee or tenant of any
part of a building or premises in which part such violation has been committed
or shall exist; and
         (d)   The permittee, owner, agent, architect, contractor or any other
person who knowingly commits, takes part or assists in any such violation or
who maintains any building or premises in which any such violation exists;
shall be liable on conviction thereof before a district justice to pay a fine
or penalty not to exceed $1,000 for each and every offense. Any such
enforcement action shall be brought before a district justice in the same
manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the Pennsylvania
Rules of Criminal Procedure.
      (2)   Whenever such person or persons have been notified by the Borough
Zoning Officer, by service of a complaint in a prosecution or by registered
mail that a violation of §§
150.30 through
150.42 is being committed, each day’s continuance of such violation after such
notification shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a like fine or
penalty. Such fines and penalties shall be collected as like fines or penalties
are now collected by law.
(Ord. 130-1986, passed 5-21-1986; Ord. 134-1987, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. 210,
passed 4-5-2004; Ord. 218-2006, passed 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Removal of diseased plants, shrubs and trees
   
151.002   Sidewalks (payment, repavement, repair)
Snow Removal from Sidewalks
   
151.015   Title
   
151.016   Definitions
   
151.017   Responsibility for removal of snow and ice from sidewalks
   
151.018   Responsibility for removal from roofs
   
151.019   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
151.020   Snow emergency
Placement of Dumpsters, PODs® or Similar Devices
   
151.035   Purpose
   
151.036   Definitions
   
151.037   Applicability
   
151.038   Requirements
   
151.039   Fee
   
151.040   Enforcement
   
151.041   Declaration of nuisance
Excavations
   
151.055   Definitions and interpretations
   
151.056   Permit required to make opening or excavation
   
151.057   Application for permit
   
151.058   Permit fee
   
151.059   Issuance of permits restricted
   
151.060   Information contained on permit
   
151.061   Permit approval/disapproval
   
151.062   Responsibility to contact utilities
   
151.063   Refilling and restoration fee
   
151.064   Refilling of opening or excavation; restoration of surface;
responsibility for defects occurring within two years
   
151.065   Responsibility of permit holder for certain work; right of borough to
do certain work; charges
   
151.066   Requirements for work; correction of unsatisfactory work; completion
of incomplete work
   
151.067   Extension of permit; additional fees
   
151.068   Emergency openings
   
151.069   Restrictions regarding trees and shrubbery
   
151.070   Work necessitating opening or excavation to be done prior to street
improvement and not until five years thereafter; exception
   
151.071   Conditions for laying and extending utility lines
   
151.072   Payment for work done by borough
   
151.073   Applicability
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 REMOVAL OF DISEASED PLANTS, SHRUBS AND TREES.
   (A)   The borough may require owners of property abutting on any street,
including state highways, to cut and remove plants, shrubs and trees, which are
no longer viable or afflicted with Dutch elm or other disease, which threatens
to injure or destroy plants, shrubs and shade trees, or destroy property in the
borough.
   (B)   Notice to remove diseased trees shall be given by registered or
certified mail to abutting property owners, and such owners shall have 20 days
to comply with said notice.
   (C)   On failure of any owner, after reasonable notice, to comply with the
terms of any such regulation, the borough may call such trees to be removed at
the expense of the borough, and thereupon, in the name of the borough, collect
the cost of such work from the owners in default, as debts of like amount or by
law collectible.
   (D)   Where in the opinion of the borough a dangerous condition exists that
can be remedied by an expenditure of $100, the borough shall send such property
owner notice by registered or certified mail stating an emergency situation
exists which requires removal of the tree or parts of the tree. Upon failure of
such owner to comply with the notice within 48 hours after receiving it, the
borough may make the emergency removal and levy costs of its work on such owner
as a property lien to be collected in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 138-1988, passed 8-1-1988) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.002 SIDEWALKS (PAYMENT, REPAVEMENT, REPAIR).
   (A)   Be it ordained and enacted by the corporation of the borough in
Borough Council assembled, and it is hereby ordained and enacted by the
authority aforesaid, that whenever Borough Council shall by resolution direct
any owner or owners of a lot or lots of ground, to grade, pave, repave or
repair the sidewalks fronting on such lot or lots of ground or shall direct
such owner or owners to curb, gutter, recurb or regutter the curbs or gutters
at the edge of such sidewalk, then written or printed notice shall be served on
such lot owner or owners by the Secretary/Treasurer of the Borough Council in
the manner set forth by the Act of Assembly of the commonwealth, approved May
24, 1901, P. L. 297; that is to say, such notice shall be served upon the owner
of the premises to which such notice refers, if such owner is a resident of the
borough. If such owner is not a resident, then the notice may be served on the
agent or tenant of the owner or upon the occupant of the said premises, if said
owner has no agent or tenant, or if there be no occupier of the said premises,
then by printed or written notice tacked upon the premises.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) above shall provide that if such
lot owner does not, as the case may be, grade, pave, repave or repair the
sidewalks, or curb, gutter, recurb or regutter the curb or gutter as requested,
on 30-days’ notice to him or her so to do, then and in such case the same will
be done by and under the direction of the Borough Council and the cost thereof,
together with a 10% penalty, will be collected by the borough from such owner
or owners. The Borough Secretary/Treasurer is hereby authorized to have printed
such notices from time to time as is necessary for the purposes of this
division (B).
   (C)   If, after the expiration of 30 days from the service of such notice,
the lot owner or owners have not complied with or proceeded to comply with the
requirements of such notice, then and in such case the Borough Council may
direct to be done the work or improvement demanded by such notice, and the same
shall be done at the cost of such owner or owners of the lot or lots, and the
costs thereof together with a 10% penalty, and together with all charges and
expenses, shall be collected by the borough from such owner or owners, in any
manner whatsoever, as may be provided by law.
   (D)   Whenever any pavements are laid, or whenever any repairing is done, or
curbs and gutters constructed, under the provisions of this section, the
construction of the curbs and gutters shall be monolithic concrete consisting
of one part portland cement, two parts clean sharp sand and four parts of stone
or slag, and in the case of pavements, the pavements laid shall be monolithic
concrete consisting of one part portland cement, two parts clean sharp sand and
four parts of stone or slag, of a width of five feet, a depth of 31 inches, and
all construction to be under the supervision of the street committee of Borough
Council.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-2-1924) Penalty, see §
151.999
SNOW REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 151.015 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Snow Emergency
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 151.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARTWAY. Portion of the street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. Portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of
a cartway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of a way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 151.017 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of any building or lot of land
fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, to remove and clear away, or cause to
be removed or cleared away, snow and/or ice from a path of at least 30 inches
in width from so much of said sidewalk as is in front of or abuts on said
building or lot of land. Except as provided in this section, snow and ice shall
be removed from sidewalks within 24 hours after the cessation of any fall of
snow, sleet or freezing rain.
   (B)   In the event snow and/or ice on a sidewalk has become so hard that it
cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the person
charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned in division (A)
above, cause enough sand or other abrasive to be put on the sidewalk to make
travel reasonably safe, and shall, as soon thereafter as weather permits, cause
to be cleared a path in said sidewalk of at least 30 inches in width.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.018 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL FROM ROOFS.
   Every owner of any building or other structure, shall remove and clear away,
or cause to be removed and cleared away, any accumulation of snow and ice on
said building or other structure which is liable to fall on any sidewalk,
roadway or other public way. Such work shall be completed within a reasonable
time, but not later than 24 hours after the cessation of any fall of snow,
sleet or freezing rain.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.019 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow or ice on or
immediately next to a fire hydrant or any sidewalk, roadway or loading or
unloading areas of a public transportation system, except that snow and ice may
be mounded by the borough on public cartways incident to the cleaning thereof.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.020 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   In order to facilitate movement of traffic and combat the hazards of snow
and ice on snow emergency routes named in
Chapter 75, Schedule IV of this code of ordinances, the borough may declare a
snow emergency. Information on the snow emergency shall be given by the borough
through radio, newspaper and other available media, and information on the
termination of the emergency may be given by the same media.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994)
Cross-reference:
   Snow emergency routes, see
Ch. 75, Sch. IV
PLACEMENT OF DUMPSTERS, PODs® OR SIMILAR DEVICES
§ 151.035 PURPOSE.
   The primary purpose of public streets is for use by vehicular and pedestrian
traffic. Reasonable regulation of obstruction in public streets and sidewalks
is necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
Placement of dumpsters, PODs® and similar devices should be regulated.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTER. A metal storage receptacle used to temporarily store debris or
garbage and which is then emptied of its contents or removed with its contents
to a dumpsite.
   PORTABLE STORAGE DEVICE. Any item placed in a street that is not a motor
vehicle as defined by the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, or a temporary dumpster,
including, but not limited to, containers commonly known as PORTABLE STORAGE
DEVICES or PODs®.
   TEMPORARY DUMPSTER. Any dumpster used or intended as a disposal facility for
construction, renovation or demolition projects, special events, seasonal use
or other purposes not permanent in nature.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.037 APPLICABILITY.
   The following provisions shall apply within the borough, provided that all
other requirements of borough ordinances are met.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any permit for any dumpster, temporary
dumpster or portable storage device, its location and usage shall be reviewed
and approved by the Borough Police Department.
   (B)   A permit for a dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device
shall be for an initial term of not more than 30 days. Provided the applicant
is in compliance with all provisions of this subchapter and all other
applicable borough regulations, a renewal permit may be approved and issued for
an additional 30-day period upon application and payment of the permit renewal
fee. Not more than one renewal permit shall be issued by the borough for any
dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device placed upon any borough
street. The dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall be
removed prior to the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.038 REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply to any dumpster, temporary dumpster
or portable storage device placed upon public streets or pedestrian ways in the
borough.
   (A)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device may be
placed on Main Street, within 40 feet of an intersection; or within any
prohibited or restricted areas.
   (B)   Sufficient reflective tape shall be placed upon all four sides of the
dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device in such a manner as to
make it visible at night.
   (C)   Each of the dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device
rollers or wheels (if any) must be placed upon a pad or on a similarly
protective device in order to prevent damage to the road surface.
   (D)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall be
placed nearer than 15 feet to any fire hydrant within the cartway or other area
intended for firefighting equipment.
   (E)   The name, address and telephone number of the dumpster, temporary
dumpster or portable storage device owner/operator shall be conspicuously
placed on at least two sides of the device.
   (F)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall be
placed within the cartway of any street extending a distance of more than nine
feet from the curb line or edge of cartway.
   (G)   The location of any dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage
device upon any public street shall not interfere with any required clear sight
distance across any intersection.
   (H)   The location of any dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage
device upon any public street shall not obstruct any pedestrian way or the
travel lane of any public street.
   (I)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall be
loaded in such a manner as to cause its contents to spill onto any street,
sidewalk or other area intended for pedestrian travel.
   (J)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall
contain any hazardous waste unless pursuant to a permit for such waste issued
by the appropriate governmental entity.
   (K)   No materials contained in a dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable
storage device shall emit any noxious or offensive odor or otherwise create any
hazard or risk to public health.
   (L)   No dumpster, temporary dumpster or portable storage device shall be
placed in such a manner as to interfere with the operation or maintenance of
any public utility.
   (M)   The permit shall be conspicuously placed in a location that permits it
to be identified from a public street.
   (N)   The placement of any dumpster shall be in accordance with all
requirements of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code.
   (O)   (1)   If any damage or injury to the cartway, curb or sidewalk shall
be caused or done by the use or occupancy of any street or road hereunder, the
party to whom such permit shall have been issued shall be responsible and
liable for the same and shall restore the cartway, curb and/or sidewalk to its
original condition.
      (2)   If the permittee refuses to properly restore the cartway, curb and/
or sidewalk to its original condition, the borough may do so and collect the
cost of the same from the permittee.
   (P)   All containers must be maintained in original designed condition.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.039 FEE.
   The following fees shall apply to wit:
   (A)   The fee for the dumpster permit shall be set annually by Borough
Council on its fee schedule; and
   (B)   All permit fees shall be paid to the Borough Secretary/Treasurer prior
to issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.040 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A borough officer may enforce this chapter by either issuing a
citation or removing the dumpster, POD® or similar device pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter or by invoking enforcement provisions.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be enforced by such persons who shall be so
designated by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.041 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any violation of any provisions of this section is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness, comfort and
welfare of the inhabitants of the borough.
   (B)   The borough may seek enforcement of the subchapter by suit for
injunction, damages or other appropriate legal action, as against a nuisance,
at the expense of the property owner including reasonable attorney fees. Any
such civil action shall be in addition to any prosecution for violations of
this subchapter as a municipal civil infraction, commencement of any such
proceedings shall not constitute an election of remedies.
(Ord. 270-2016, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.055 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
   EXCAVATION. Any activity within the right-of-way of any street, alley or
cartway which involves cutting, breaking or disturbing the surface thereof. In
this subchapter, the term OPENING shall have essentially the same meaning as
excavation.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
municipal authority.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, square, alley, highway or other
public place located in the borough and established for the use of vehicles,
but shall not include state highways.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.056 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MAKE OPENING OR EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open or to make any excavation of any
kind in any of the streets in the borough without first securing a permit
therefore, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person who shall desire to make any opening or excavation in any of the
streets in the borough shall make application to the Borough Secretary/
Treasurer in writing for that purpose at least three days prior to opening the
street. Such application shall be made upon forms to be furnished by the
borough and shall set forth the name of the applicant, the exact location of
the proposed opening or excavation, the contractor or parties doing the work,
the kind of street to be refilled or restored, the number of square feet to be
refilled or restored; the estimated time for completion, and the approximate
size and depth thereof, and an agreement on the part of the applicant that the
work shall be done in full compliance with the ordinances of the borough and
the laws of the commonwealth in relation thereto, and that the applicant shall
well and truly save, defend and keep harmless the borough from and indemnify it
against any and all actions, suits, demands, payments, costs and charges for or
by reason of the proposed opening or excavation, and all damages to persons or
property resulting in any manner therefrom, or occurring in the prosecution of
the work connected therewith, or from any other matter, cause or thing relating
thereto.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.058 PERMIT FEE.
   Before any permit shall be issued to open or excavate any street in the
borough, the applicant shall pay a permit fee in the amount fixed according to
a schedule of fees as Council of the borough shall determine from time to time
by resolution.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.059 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS RESTRICTED.
   Permits shall be issued only to person furnishing public utility services or
the owner or owners of the real property adjoining the location where such
opening or excavation is to be made.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.060 INFORMATION CONTAINED ON PERMIT.
   Any permit issued hereunder shall specify the exact location where the
opening or excavation is to be made, the approximate permitted size and depth
thereof and the time within which the work for which the permit is granted is
to be completed.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.061 PERMIT APPROVAL/DISAPPROVAL.
   A permit may be issued to the applicant after all the requirements therefore
have been satisfied. If the application is disapproved, written notice of
disapproval together with reasons therefore shall be given to the applicant.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.062 RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTACT UTILITIES.
   The work authorized by the permit is subject to all the provisions of
Pennsylvania One-Call System, 73 P.S. § 176 as amended or supplemented from
time to time. It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to contact the
utilities that have recorded their facilities in compliance with said Act.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.063 REFILLING AND RESTORATION FEE.
   The fee for refilling or restoration of streets shall be based upon the
number of square feet required to be refilled or restored as a result of
opening or excavation. The amount of the fee to be charged shall be in
accordance with such schedule of fees as Council of the borough shall determine
from time to time by resolution. The fee shall be for cost of inspection of any
street opening, restoration and for the maintenance of each opening.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.064 REFILLING OF OPENING OR EXCAVATION; RESTORATION OF SURFACE;
RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEFECTS OCCURRING WITHIN TWO YEARS.
   Any person who shall open or excavate any street in the borough shall
thoroughly and completely refill the opening or excavation in such a manner as
to prevent any settling thereafter, and shall restore the surface to the same
condition as it was before the opening or excavation, and such restoration
shall be in accordance with the specifications of the borough for the
restoration of surfaces of streets in the borough, as restored; the surface
shall conform to the proper grade and be of the same surface covering as the
part of the thoroughfare immediately adjoining the opening. If within two years
after the restoration of the surface as herein provided, defects shall appear
therein resulting from defective work by the applicant, the applicant shall
reimburse the borough for the cost of all necessary repairs to the permanent
paving.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER FOR CERTAIN WORK; RIGHT OF BOROUGH TO
DO CERTAIN WORK; CHARGES.
   All other work in connection with openings in any street, including
excavation, protection, refilling and temporary paving, shall be done by or for
the person to whom the permit has been issued at his, her or its expense, and
all such work shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter and to the
supervision and approval of the borough, provided that the borough may if it
deems it necessary to the proper performance of the work, require that cutting
of the surface of streets and the backfilling of all excavations therein shall
be actual cost of the work performed by the borough.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.066 REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK; CORRECTION OF UNSATISFACTORY WORK; COMPLETION
OF INCOMPLETE WORK.
   (A)   No opening or excavation in any street shall extend from the curb line
into the highway a distance greater that one foot beyond the centerline of the
street before being refilled and the surface of the highway restored to a
condition safe and convenient for travel.
   (B)   No more than 500 feet longitudinally shall be opened in any street at
any one time.
   (C)   The work of excavation shall be so conducted as not to interfere with
the water mains, sewers or their connections with the houses, or any other
subsurface lines or constructions, until permission of the proper authorities
in connection with such subsurface lines or constructions shall have been
obtained.
   (D)   No tunneling shall be allowed without the express approval of the
borough and permission therefore endorsed upon the permit. All material
including surface material shall be removed to the full length, width, and
depth of the excavation, except in such cases as may be approved by the Borough
Engineer.
   (E)   All persons digging or opening trenches or excavations in any of the
streets of the borough for any purpose shall refill the same in the following
manner.
      (1)   Unimproved streets.
         (a)   If the street is unimproved or consists of the natural ground or
other similar material, the trench or excavation shall be filled with suitable
excavation material, provided no large stones are used in the backfill.
         (b)   All material replaced in a trench or excavation shall be
compacted by adequate machine tamping and six-inch layers. It shall be unlawful
to puddle or waterfill in lieu of such tamping.
         (c)   Restoration shall consist of matching surrounding material
(i.e.. grass, stone and the like) to the satisfaction of the Borough Engineer.
      (2)   Improved streets.
         (a)   All other streets which are improved shall be filled with
suitable excavated material to within ten inches of the street surface. No
macadam, concrete or blacktop pieces shall be used for backfill. All backfill
shall be No. 57 aggregate with a six-inch envelope of AA screenings or 1B stone
around the pipe or conduit. Trenches shall be filled with eight inches 2A
modified stone and two inches of hot bituminous patch material. After 90 days,
the temporary material and five inches of stone shall be removed. The trench
shall be restored with five inches of bituminous concrete base course and two
inches of ID-2 bituminous concrete. All edges shall be sealed with BM-1 asphalt
sealer. The date of the final restoration shall be painted on the patch.
         (b)   All material replaced in a trench or excavation shall be
compacted by adequate machine tamping in six-inch layers. It shall be unlawful
to puddle or waterfill in lieu of such tamping.
   (F)   During the making of any excavation in the street, every necessary and
reasonable precaution shall be taken by the applicant and the parties making
the same to keep the street in a safe and passable condition both day and night
by guards, barriers, lanterns and other devices, and all excavating permits
granted hereunder are granted under and subject to the express condition that
the person to whom the same is issued shall indemnify, save and keep harmless
the borough from any loss in damages, or otherwise whatsoever, which may or
shall be occasioned at any time by the said excavation, or by any leak,
explosion or other injury from any pipe, apparatus, conduit or any other matter
placed in the said excavation.
   (G)   The applicant shall notify the borough when the opening or excavation
is ready for backfill before any backfilling is done, when backfilling work is
completed, when the temporary paving has been installed and when the street has
been permanently restored so that inspections may be made by the borough.
   (H)   In the event that any work performed by or for a permit holder shall,
in the opinion of the borough be unsatisfactory and the same shall not be
corrected in accordance with the borough’s instructions within the time fixed
by it, or in the event that the work for which the permit was granted is not
completed within the time fixed by the borough, the borough may proceed to
correct such unsatisfactory work, cost, thereof, plus 20% to the applicant. In
the event the borough is not notified of the work as required in this section,
the trenches shall be opened at the borough’s request to ensure proper
backfilling, tamping and paving.
   (I)   Monuments of concrete, iron or other lasting material set for the
purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any street, of property
subdivision, or a precise survey reference point or a permanent survey
benchmark within the borough shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be
removed or disturbed unless permission to do so is first obtained in writing
from the borough. Permission shall be granted only upon condition that the
applicant shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of the
monument.
   (J)   When the work performed by the applicant interferes with the
established drainage system of any street, provision shall be made by the
applicant to provide proper drainage to the satisfaction of the borough.
   (K)   When any earth, gravel or other excavated material is caused to roll,
flow or wash upon any street, the applicant shall cause the same to be removed
from the street within 24 hours after deposit. In the event the earth, gravel
or other excavated material so deposited is not removed, the borough shall
cause such removal and the cost incurred shall be paid by the applicant.
   (L)   Access to private driveways shall be provided except during working
hours when construction operations prohibit provision of such access. Free
access must be provided at all times to fire hydrants.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 EXTENSION OF PERMIT; ADDITIONAL FEES.
   Whenever additional excavation in excess of that specified in any permit
shall be made, the permittee shall pay an additional fee for the extra square
footage of surface restored. The penalty of 10% shall be paid in all cases
where an extension of the permit to cover such extra excavation shall not have
been obtained within 48 hours after the making of such extra excavation.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.068 EMERGENCY OPENINGS.
   In the case of any leak, explosion or other accident in any subsurface pipe,
line, construction or apparatus, it shall be lawful for the person owning or
responsible for such pipe, line, construction or apparatus, to commence an
excavation to remedy such condition before securing a permit, provided that
application for a permit shall be made immediately and not later that the next
business day thereafter, and that such person comply with all other provisions
of this subchapter. If any such emergency condition shall not be immediately
attended to be the owner or person responsible for such pipe, line,
construction or apparatus, the borough, after such notice as it shall deem
necessary under the circumstance of the particular case, shall do the work
deemed necessary and required by such emergency, and charge the same on the
basis of cost plus 20% to such owner or person.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.069 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   The permission herein granted does not confer upon the permittee or its
contractors the right to cut, remove or destroy trees or shrubbery within the
legal right-of-way except under specifications, regulation and conditions as
the borough may prescribe.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.070 WORK NECESSITATING OPENING OR EXCAVATION TO BE DONE PRIOR TO STREET
IMPROVEMENT AND NOT UNTIL FIVE YEARS THEREAFTER; EXCEPTION.
   The borough shall give timely notice to all persons owning property abutting
on any street within the borough about to be paved or improved, and to all
public utility companies operating in the borough, and all such persons and
utility companies shall make all water, gas or sewer connections, as well as
any repairs thereto which would necessitate excavation of the said street
within 30 days from the giving of such notice, unless such time is extended in
writing for cause shown by the borough. New paving shall not be opened or
excavated for a period of five years after the completion thereof, except in
case of emergency and the necessity for the opening or excavating of such
paving to be determined by the borough. If it is sought to excavate upon or
open a sewer within five years after the completion of the paving, the
applicant shall make written application to the borough, and a permit for such
opening shall be issued only after express approval of the Borough Council. The
Borough Council and/or Borough Engineer will be the sole judge of an emergency
situation.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.071 CONDITIONS FOR LAYING AND EXTENDING UTILITY LINES.
   No new water, sewer, steam or gas main or electric, telephone or other
utility line shall hereafter be laid or constructed, and no such existing main
or line shall by extended, in any of the streets of the borough until the plan
therefor shall have been first filed with the borough and such plan, the exact
location of such main or line, approved by it. The borough shall not approve
the locating of any such main or line at a depth of less than 30 inches from
the surface of the street unless it shall be convinced that locating the same
at a depth of more than 30 inches from the surface is impossible or
impractical.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072 PAYMENT FOR WORK DONE BY BOROUGH.
   Payment of all work done by the borough under the provision of this
subchapter shall be made by the person made liable for such work by the terms
of this subchapter. The borough shall send a bill for any such work to the
person liable to pay for such work by certified mail to the last known mailing
address of such person. The person liable for payment of such bill shall make
payment to the borough within 30 days of that person’s receipt of the bill. In
the event that person fails to make full payment of the bill within 30 days,
the borough may proceed to collect the amount due in the manner provided by the
terms of this subchapter or other applicable law.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.073 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to laying sidewalks or
curbs.
(Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
151.015 through
151.020 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and/or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In the event any motor vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route,
the Borough Council or borough police may remove the illegally positioned
vehicle when Council or police determine such removal is necessary for the
plowing of snow or for other lawful purpose. The cost of removing such vehicle
shall be assessed against the person violating §§
151.015 through
151.020.
   (C)   Any person or persons, firm, company, partnership or corporation
violating any of the provisions of §§
151.035 through
151.041 shall, upon conviction before the district magistrate, pay a fine of
not more than $300 plus court cost for each offense, and the accrued cost of
the borough for that prosecution. Each day that such separate violation shall
continue or be carried on shall constitute an additional separate violation,
for which the court may impose an additional fine and continuing fine until the
dumpster, POD® or similar device is removed.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
151.055 through
151.073 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300; and in default of payment, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed
90 days. Every day that a violation of §§
151.055 through
151.073 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 164-1994, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 175, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 270-2016,
passed 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Intent
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.005   Severability
   
152.006   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.020   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.021   Permits required
   
152.022   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
152.024   Review by County Conservation District
   
152.025   Review of application by others
   
152.026   Changes
   
152.027   Placards
   
152.028   Start of construction
   
152.029   Enforcement
   
152.030   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
152.045   Identification
   
152.046   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
152.047   Changes in identification of area
   
152.048   Boundary disputes
   
152.049   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
152.060   General
   
152.061   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
152.062   Design and construction standards
   
152.063   Development which may endanger human life
   
152.064   Special requirements for subdivisions
   
152.065   Special requirements for manufactured houses
   
152.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
152.080   General
   
152.081   Application requirements for special permits
   
152.082   Application review procedures
   
152.083   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
152.095   Existing structures
   
152.096   Improvements
Variances
   
152.110   General
   
152.111   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
152.125   General
   
152.126   Specific definitions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has, by the passage of the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act of 1978, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Council of the borough does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the borough unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.005 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.006 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer is hereby appointed to administer and enforce this
chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator may:
      (1)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
      (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these regulations
to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors and other
employees; or
      (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
   (C)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (D)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Borough Chief
Executive Officer.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.021 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the borough.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.022 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 to 750.20; the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as amended), 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 to 693.27; the
Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended), 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to
691.1001; and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit
shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
development/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of
repairs to the subject building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   (D)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (E)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity all records
associated with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
finished construction elevation data, permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to the FEMA concerning community participation in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (I)   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in the
floodplain regulations as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (J)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.023 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the borough. Such application
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location including address;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form; and
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District with floodway (see §
152.046(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation at any point;
         (d)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood; and
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of flood proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (e)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
152.062(F) and
152.063, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
152.062(F) and
152.063 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained
on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
152.063 during a base flood.
         (f)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (g)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.024 REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.025 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.026 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.027 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.028 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months
after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The
actual start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request, and the original
permit is compliant with this chapter and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.029 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed a period of 30 days, for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.030 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in
writing, within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider
the appeal in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq. and any local ordinance.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state
including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et
seq.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.045 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be:
      (1)   Any areas of borough, classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated July 16, 2014 and issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study; and
      (2)   Any community identified flood hazard areas.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments, are hereby adopted by borough and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.046 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   The Floodway Area/District identified as floodway in the FIS which
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any point. This
term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified in other
available studies or sources of information for those special flood hazard
areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall not be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (B)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood elevations
have been provided.
      (1)   The AE Area adjacent to the floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for
which base flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been
delineated.
      (2)   AE Area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an AE
zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood
elevations have been provided but no floodway has been determined.
         (a)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development,
use or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than one foot at any point.
         (b)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   (C)   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1% annual
chance flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and
floodway information from other federal, state or other acceptable sources
shall be used when available. Where other acceptable information is not
available, the base flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation
of a point on the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest
the construction site.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like, shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the municipality.
   (D)   Community identified flood hazard areas shall be those areas where the
borough has identified local flood hazard or ponding areas, as delineated and
adopted on a local flood hazard map using best available topographic data and
locally derived information such as flood of record, historic high water marks,
soils or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.047 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Council
where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents
the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change to the special
flood hazard area, approval must be obtained from FEMA. Additionally, as soon
as practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify FEMA of the changes to the special
flood hazard area by submitting technical or scientific data. See §
152.060(B) for situations where FEMA notification is required.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.048 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Borough Planning Commission and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Council.
The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.049 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation of
any watercourse.
   (B)   Technical or scientific data.
      (1)   Technical or scientific data shall be submitted by the applicant to
FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon as practicable but within six
months of any new construction, development or other activity resulting in
changes in the BFE.
      (2)   The situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) are required are:
         (a)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
         (b)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited
to installing culverts and bridges).
      (3)   The applicant shall (as per 44 C.F.R. § 65.12):
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur;
         (b)   Upon receipt of the Administrator’s conditional approval of map
change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition; and
         (c)   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide as-built certifications. FEMA will initiate a final map revision upon
receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 C.F.R. part 67.
   (C)   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Within any identified floodplain area (see §
152.046), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.061 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
152.046(C).
      (3)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there no base flood elevations are specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
152.046(C).
      (3)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the WI or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Floodproofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term FULLY
ENCLOSED SPACE also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, must comply with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation
that a specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure from
the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
places must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from ordinance requirements will
be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity;
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 200 square feet;
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential;
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation;
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited;
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited; and
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.062 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. Within any identified floodplain area the use of fill shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of floodwaters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and The International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
152.063, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation or flood
proofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended and
not limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections of this chapter, to the extent that they are more restrictive and
supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.063 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S.
§§ 679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of Community
and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or substantially
improved structure which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials
and substances are considered dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any identified floodplain area, any structure of the kind
described in division (A) above, shall be prohibited. No variance shall be
granted.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.064 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified floodplain
areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.065 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOUSES.
   (A)   Within any Floodway Area/District, manufactured homes shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one- half feet above base flood elevation;
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement; and
      (4)   Have all ductwork and utilities including HVAC/heat pump elevated
to the regulatory flood elevation.
   (C)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34 Pa.
Code Chapters 401 through 405 shall apply.
   (D)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC, or the most recent revisions thereto, and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the proposed unit(s) installation.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
152.065.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 152.080 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following activities
shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area unless a special
permit has been issued by the borough:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other accessways and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning the
flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.082 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the borough, the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
152.020 through
152.030.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the borough notify
the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is deficient.
   (C)   If the borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the borough.
   (F)   If the borough does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the borough and the applicant, in
writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.083 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.060 through
152.066, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
152.060 through
152.066 or in any other code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
borough and the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.095 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
152.096 shall apply.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.096 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with all other
existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at
any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
   (E)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
   (F)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
VARIANCES
§ 152.110 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the borough in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
152.030 and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in
the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would, together
with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than
one foot at any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (§§
152.080 through
152.083).
      (4)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a variance is granted, the borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (7)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the borough shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public
expense; nor
            2.   Create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
      (8)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the borough. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.125 GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.126 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to: the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall MINOR REPAIRS include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring, mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective start date of this floodplain management ordinance
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction
started after July 1, 1965, the effective date of community’s first floodplain
management ordinance (Ord. 36-1965) and before the effective start date of this
floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the
time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within 180
days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated December 4,1979, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated December 4, 1979, whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the national flood insurance program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days after the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage or repetitive loss regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement
Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a civil offense and upon
conviction shall pay a fine to borough, of not less than $25 nor more than $600
plus costs of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties all other actions
are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with this chapter, shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable time.
Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as
such.
(Ord. 262-2014, passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Statement of findings   
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Statutory authority
   
153.005   Applicability
   
153.006   Exemptions
   
153.007   Compatibility with other chapter requirements
   
153.008   Duty of persons engaged in the development of land
Definitions
   
153.020   Definitions
Stormwater Management Requirements
   
153.035   General requirements
   
153.036   Permit requirements by other government entities
   
153.037   Erosion and sediment control during regulated earth disturbance
activities
   
153.038   Post construction water quality criteria
   
153.039   Stormwater management districts
   
153.040   Stormwater management district implementation provisions
   
153.041   Calculation methodology
Drainage Plan Requirements
   
153.055   General requirements
   
153.056   Exemptions
   
153.057   Drainage plan contents
   
153.058   Plan submission
   
153.059   Drainage plan review
   
153.060   Modification of plans
   
153.061   Hardship waiver procedure
Inspections
   
153.075   Schedule of inspections
Fees and Expenses
   
153.090   General
   
153.091   Expenses covered by fees
Stormwater BMP Operations and Maintenance Plan Requirements
   
153.105   General requirements
   
153.106   Responsibilities for operations and maintenance of BMPs
   
153.107   Adherence to approved BMP operations and maintenance plan
   
153.108   Operations and maintenance agreement for privately owned stormwater
BMPs    
   
153.109   Stormwater management easements
   
153.110   Recording of approved BMP operations and maintenance plan and related
agreements
   
153.111   Borough Stormwater BMP Operations and Maintenance Fund
Prohibitions
   
153.125   Prohibited discharges
   
153.126   Prohibited connections
   
153.127   Roof drains
   
153.128   Alteration of BMPs
Right of Entry, Notification and Enforcement
   
153.140   Right of entry
   
153.141   Notification
   
153.142   Public nuisance
   
153.143   Suspension and revocation of permits and approvals
   
153.144   Appeals
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A-1: Map of Bushkill Creek Watershed
   
Appendix A-2: Municipal map of stormwater management districts
   
Appendix B-1: Map of storm drainage problem areas
   
Appendix B-2: Description of storm drainage problem areas
   
Appendix C-1: NRCS Type II 24-hour rainfall distribution (graphic and tabular)
   
Appendix C-2: Intensity-duration frequency curves
   
Appendix C-3: Runoff curve numbers and percent imperviousness values
   
Appendix C-4: Runoff coefficients for the rational method
   
Appendix C-5: Manning “n” values
   
Appendix D: Recommendation chart for infiltration stormwater management BMPs in
carbonate bedrock
   
Appendix E: Stormwater best management practices operations and maintenance
agreement
   
Appendix F: Low impact development practices
   
Appendix G: Preliminary site investigation and testing requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bushkill Creek
Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management Ordinance”.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.002 STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The Borough Council finds the following.
   (A)   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases flood flows and velocities,
contributes to erosion and sedimentation, changes the natural hydrologic
patterns, destroys aquatic habitat, elevates aquatic pollutant concentrations
and loadings, overtaxes the carrying capacity of streams and storm sewers,
greatly increases the cost of public facilities to carry and control
stormwater, undermines floodplain management and flood control efforts in
downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge, and threatens public
health and safety.
   (B)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management, including reasonable
regulation of development and activities causing accelerated erosion and loss
of natural infiltration, is fundamental to the public health, safety and
welfare and the protection of the people of the borough and all of the people
of the commonwealth, their resources and the environment.
   (C)   Stormwater can be an important resource by providing groundwater
recharge for water supplies and baseflow of streams, which also protects and
maintains surface water quality.
   (D)   Public education on the control of pollution from stormwater is an
essential component in successfully addressing stormwater.
   (E)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
implement a program of stormwater controls. These municipalities are required
to obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES).
   (F)   Non-stormwater discharges to municipal separate storm sewer systems
can contribute to pollution of waters of the commonwealth by the borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare within the Bushkill Creek Watershed by minimizing the damages and
maximizing the benefits described in §
153.002 by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Manage stormwater runoff impacts at their source by regulating
activities which cause such problems;
   (B)   Utilize and preserve the desirable existing natural drainage systems;
   (C)   Encourage infiltration of stormwater, where appropriate, to maintain
groundwater recharge, to prevent degradation of surface and groundwater quality
and to otherwise protect water resources;
   (D)   Maintain the existing flows and quality of streams and watercourses in
the municipality and the commonwealth;
   (E)   Preserve and restore the flood carrying capacity of streams;
   (F)   Provide for proper maintenance of all permanent stormwater management
BMPs that are implemented in the borough;
   (G)   Provide review procedures and performance standards for stormwater
planning, design and management;
   (H)   Manage stormwater impacts close to the runoff source which requires a
minimum of structures and relies on natural processes;
   (I)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.4a to protect and maintain “existing
uses” and maintain the level of water quality to support those uses in all
streams and to protect and maintain water quality in “special protection”
streams;
   (J)   Prevent scour and erosion of streambanks and streambeds; and
   (K)   Provide standards to meet the NPDES permit requirements.*
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
Editor’s note:
   * Throughout the chapter, these provisions are from the DEP Guidance on MS4
Ordinance
    Provisions and are not required for municipalities not subject to the NPDES
Phase II regulations.
§ 153.004 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The borough is empowered to regulate these activities by the authority of
the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864 (Act 167), 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq., as
amended, the Stormwater Management Act and the Borough Code.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.005 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall only apply to those areas of the borough which are
located within the Bushkill Creek Watershed(s) as delineated on an official map
available for inspection at the borough office. A map of the Bushkill Creek
Watershed(s) at a reduced scale is included in
Appendix A for general reference.
   (B)   The following activities are defined as regulated activities and shall
be governed by this chapter:
      (1)   Land development;
      (2)   Subdivision;
      (3)   Construction of new or additional impervious surfaces (driveways,
parking lots and the like);
      (4)   Construction of new buildings or additions to existing buildings;
      (5)   Diversion or piping of any natural or human-made stream channel;
      (6)   Installation of stormwater systems or appurtenances thereto; and
      (7)   Regulated earth disturbance activities.*
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
Editor’s note:
   * Throughout the chapter, these provisions are from the DEP Guidance on MS4
Ordinance
    Provisions and are not required for municipalities not subject to the NPDES
Phase II regulations.
§ 153.006 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Impervious cover. Any proposed regulated activity, except those
defined in §
153.005(B)(5) and (B)(6), which would create 10,000 square feet or less of
additional impervious cover is exempt from the drainage plan preparation
provisions of this chapter. All of the impervious cover added incrementally to
a site above the initial 10,000 square feet shall be subject to the drainage
plan preparation provisions of this chapter. If a site has previously received
an exemption and is proposing additional development such that the total
impervious cover on the site exceeds 10,000 square feet, the total impervious
cover on the site proposed since the original ordinance date must meet the
provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The date of the borough ordinance adoption of the original Bushkill
Creek Act 167 Stormwater Management Ordinance, June 7, 1993, shall be the
starting point from which to consider tracts as “parent tracts” in which future
subdivisions and respective impervious area computations shall be cumulatively
considered.
      (2)   For development taking place in stages, the entire development plan
must be used in determining conformance with these criteria.
      (3)   Additional impervious cover shall include, but not be limited to,
additional indoor living spaces, decks, patios, garages, driveways, storage
sheds and similar structures, any roof, parking or driveway areas and any new
streets and sidewalks constructed as part of or for the proposed regulated
activity.
      (4)   Any additional areas proposed to initially be gravel, crushed
stone, porous pavement and the like, shall be assumed to be impervious for the
purposes of comparison to the exemption criteria. Any existing gravel, crushed
stone or hard packed soil areas on a site shall be considered as pervious cover
for the purpose of exemption evaluation.
   (B)   Prior drainage plan approval. Any regulated activity for which a
drainage plan was previously prepared as part of a subdivision or land
development proposal that received preliminary plan approval from the borough
prior to the effective date of this chapter is exempt from the drainage plan
preparation provisions of this chapter, except as cited in division (C) below,
provided that the approved drainage plan included design of stormwater
facilities to control runoff from the site currently proposed for regulated
activities consistent with ordinance provisions in effect at the time of
approval and the approval has not lapsed under the Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. If significant revisions are made to the
drainage plan after both the preliminary plan approval and the effective date
of this chapter, preparation of a new drainage plan, subject to the provisions
of this chapter, shall be required. Significant revisions would include a
change in control methods or techniques, relocation or redesign of control
measures or changes necessary because soil or other conditions are not as
stated on the original drainage plan.
   (C)   Implementation of measures.
      (1)   These exemptions shall not relieve the applicant from implementing
such measures as are necessary to protect health, safety, property and state
water quality requirements.
      (2)   These measures include adequate and safe conveyance of stormwater
on the site and as it leaves the site. These exemptions do not relieve the
applicant from the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act or ordinance.
   (D)   Exemptions. No exemptions shall be provided for regulated activities
as defined in §
153.005(B)(5) and (B)(6).
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.007 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER CHAPTER REQUIREMENTS.
   Approvals issued pursuant to this chapter do not relieve the applicant of
the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for activities
regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act or ordinance.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.008 DUTY OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF LAND.
   Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, including exemption and
waiver provisions, any landowner and any person engaged in the alteration or
development of land which may affect stormwater runoff characteristics shall
implement such measures as are reasonably necessary to prevent injury to
health, safety or other property. Such measures shall include such actions as
are required to manage the rate, volume, direction and quality of resulting
stormwater runoff in a manner which otherwise adequately protects health and
property from possible injury.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense; the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; words of
masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of feminine gender include
masculine gender. The word INCLUDES or INCLUDING shall not limit the term to
the specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other
instances of like kind and character. The words SHALL and MUST are mandatory;
the words MAY and SHOULD are permissive.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. The removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of human activities and natural processes, at a rate greater
than would occur because of the natural processes alone.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Activities, facilities, measures or
procedures. used to manage stormwater quantity and quality impacts from the
regulated activities listed in §
153.005, to meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater
recharge and to otherwise meet the purposes of this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN. Documentation,
included as part of a drainage plan, detailing the proposed BMPs, how they will
be operated and maintained and who will be responsible.
   BIORETENTION. Densely vegetated, depressed features that store stormwater
and filter it through vegetation, mulch, planting soil and the like. Ultimately
stormwater is evapotranspirated, infiltrated or discharged. Optimal
BIORETENTION AREAS mimic natural forest ecosystems in terms of species
diversity, density, distribution, use of native plants and the like.
   BUFFER.
      (1)   SPECIAL GEOLOGIC FEATURE BUFFER. A required isolation distance from
a special geologic feature to a proposed BMP needed to reduce the risk of
sinkhole formation due to stormwater management activities.
      (2)   STREAMSIDE BUFFER. A zone of variable width located along a stream
that is vegetated and is designed to filter pollutants from runoff.
   CAPTURE/REUSE. Stormwater management techniques such as cisterns and rain
barrels which direct runoff into storage devices, surface or sub-surface, for
later reuse, such as for irrigation of gardens and other planted areas. Because
this stormwater is utilized and no pollutant discharge results, water quality
performance is superior to other non-infiltration BMPs.
   CARBONATE BEDROCK. Rock consisting chiefly of carbonate minerals, such as
limestone and dolomite; specifically a sedimentary rock composed of more than
50% by weight of carbonate minerals that underlies soil or other
unconsolidated, superficial material.
   CISTERN. An underground reservoir or tank for storing rainwater.
   CLOSED DEPRESSION. A distinctive bowl-shaped depression in the land surface.
It is characterized by internal drainage, varying magnitude and an unbroken
ground surface.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Lehigh or Northampton County Conservation
District, as applicable.
   CONSTRUCTED WETLANDS. Similar to wet ponds (see below) and consist of a
basin which provides for necessary stormwater storage as well as a permanent
pool or water level, planted with wetland vegetation. To be successful,
CONSTRUCTED WETLANDS must have adequate natural hydrology (both runoff inputs
as well as soils and water table which allow for maintenance of a permanent
pool of water). In these cases, the permanent pool must be designed carefully,
usually with shallow edge benches, so that water levels are appropriate to
support carefully selected wetland vegetation.
   CULVERT. A pipe, conduit or similar structure including appurtenant works
which carries surface water.
   DAM. An artificial barrier, together with its appurtenant works, constructed
for the purpose of impounding or storing water or another fluid or semifluid or
a refuse bank, fill or structure for highway, railroad or other purposes which
does or may impound water or another fluid or semifluid.
   DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   DESIGN STORM. The depth and time distribution of precipitation from a storm
event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g., 100-year storm) and duration
(e.g., 24-hour) and used in computing stormwater management control systems.
   DETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to retard stormwater runoff by temporarily
storing the runoff and releasing it at the appropriate release rate.
   DEVELOPER. A person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity,
or any responsible person therein or agent thereof, that undertakes any
regulated activity of this chapter.
   DEVELOPER SITE (SITE). The specific tract of land for which a regulated
activity is proposed.
   DIFFUSED DRAINAGE. See SHEET FLOW.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A right granted by a land owner to a grantee, allowing
the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. The documentation of the proposed stormwater quantity and
quality management controls to be used for a given development site, including
a BMP operations and maintenance plan, the contents of which are established in
§
153.057.
   EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. A construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavations, embankments, road maintenance, building
construction and the moving, depositing, stockpiling or storing of soil, rock
or earth materials.
   EROSION. The removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice or
other geological agents.
   EXISTING USES. Those uses actually attained in the water body on or after
November 28, 1975, whether or not they are included in the water quality
standards (25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.1).
   FILL. Human-made deposits of natural soils or rock products and waste
materials.
   FREEBOARD. The incremental depth in a stormwater management structure,
provided as a safety factor of design, above that required to convey the design
runoff event.
   GROUNDWATER RECHARGE. Replenishment of existing natural underground water
supplies.
   HARDSHIP WAIVER REQUEST. A written request for a waiver alleging that the
provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon the applicant. A
HARDSHIP WAIVER does not apply to and is not available from the water quality
provisions of this chapter and should not be granted.
   HOT SPOT LAND USES. A land use or activity that generates higher
concentrations of hydrocarbons, trace metals or other toxic substances than
typically found in stormwater runoff. These land uses are listed in §
153.038(P).
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). Soils are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C
and D) to indicate the minimum infiltration rates, which are obtained for bare
soil after prolonged wetting. The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
of the US Department of Agriculture defines the four groups and provides a list
of most of the soils in the United States and their group classification. The
soils in the area of the development site may be identified from a soil survey
report that can be obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district
offices. Soils become less permeable as the HSG varies from A to D.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS COVER). A surface which prevents the
percolation of water into the ground.
   INFILTRATION PRACTICE. A practice designed to direct runoff into the ground,
e.g., French drain, seepage pit, seepage trench or bioretention area.
   KARST. A type of topography or landscape characterized by depressions,
sinkholes, limestone towers and steep-sided hills, underground drainage and
caves. KARST is usually formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestones or
dolomites and sometimes gypsum.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Any of the following activities:
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land; and
      (3)   Development in accordance with § 503(1.1) of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   LOADING RATE. The ratio of the land area draining to the system, as modified
by the weighting factors in §
153.041(B), compared to the base area of the infiltration system.
   LOCAL RUNOFF CONVEYANCE FACILITIES. Any natural channel or human-made
conveyance system which has the purpose of transporting runoff from the site to
the mainstem.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT. A development approach that promotes practices that
will minimize post-development runoff rates and volumes thereby minimizing
needs for artificial conveyance and storage facilities. Site design practices
include preserving natural drainage features, minimizing impervious surface
area, reducing the hydraulic connectivity of impervious surfaces and protecting
natural depression storage.
   MAINSTEM (MAIN CHANNEL). Any stream segment or other conveyance used as a
reach in the Bushkill Creek hydrologic model.
   MANNING EQUATION (MANNING FORMULA). A method for calculation of velocity of
flow (e.g., feet per second) and flow rate (e.g., cubic feet per second) in
open channels based upon channel shape, roughness, depth of flow and slope.
Open channels may include closed conduits so long as the flow is not under
pressure.
   MARYLAND STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL. A stormwater design manual written by the
Maryland Department of the Environment and the Center for Watershed Protection.
As of January 2004, the Manual can be obtained through the following web site:
www.mdc.state.md.us.
   MINIMUM DISTURBANCE/MINIMUM MAINTENANCE PRACTICES (MD/MM). Site design
practices in which careful limits are placed on site clearance prior to
development allowing for maximum retention of existing vegetation (woodlands
and other), minimum disturbance and compaction of existing soil mantle and
minimum site application of chemicals post-development. Typically, MD/MM
includes disturbance setback criteria from buildings as well as related site
improvements such as walkways, driveways, roadways and any other improvements.
These criteria may vary by community context as well as by type of development
being proposed. Additionally, MD/MM also shall include provisions (e.g., deed
restrictions, conservation easements) to protect these areas from future
disturbance and from application of fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides.
   MUNICIPALITY. Bushkill Creek, Tatamy Borough, Northampton County,
Pennsylvania.
   NO HARM OPTION. The option of using a less restrictive runoff quantity
control if it can be shown that adequate and safe runoff conveyance exists and
that the less restrictive control would not adversely affect health, safety and
property.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   NRCS. Natural Resources Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture
(formerly the Soil Conservation Service).
   OIL/WATER SEPARATOR. A structural mechanism designed to remove free oil and
grease (and possibly solids) from stormwater runoff.
   OUTFALL. Point source as described in 40 C.F.R. § 122.2 at the point where
the borough’s storm sewer system discharges to surface waters of the
commonwealth.
   OWNER. One with an interest in and often dominion over a property.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of stormwater runoff at a given
location and time resulting from a specified storm event.
   PENN STATE RUNOFF MODEL (PSRM). The computer-based hydrologic modeling
technique adapted to each watershed for the Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S.
§§ 680.1 et seq. The model was “calibrated” to reflect actual flow values by
adjusting key model input parameters.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel or conduit from which
stormwater is or may be discharged, as defined in state regulations at 25 Pa.
Code § 92a.1.
   PRELIMINARY SITE INVESTIGATION. The determination of the depth to bedrock,
the depth to the seasonal high water table and the soil permeability for a
possible infiltration location on a site through the use of published data and
on-site surveys. In carbonate bedrock areas, the location of special geologic
features must also be determined along with the associated buffer distance to
the possible infiltration area. See Appendix G.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. A person who owns or operates a public water system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system which provides water to the public for human
consumption which has at least 15 service connections or regularly serves an
average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year. (See
25 Pa. Code Chapter 109.)
   QUALIFIED GEOTECHNICAL PROFESSIONAL. A licensed professional geologist or a
licensed professional engineer who has a background or expertise in geology or
hydrogeology.
   RATIONAL METHOD. Method of peak runoff calculation using a standardized
runoff coefficient (rational “c”), acreage of tract and rainfall intensity
determined by return period and by the time necessary for the entire tract to
contribute runoff. The rational method formula is stated as follows: Q = ciA,
where “Q” is the calculated peak flow rate in cubic feet per second, “c” is the
dimensionless runoff coefficient (see Appendix C), “i” is the rainfall
intensity in inches per hour, and “A” is the area of the tract in acres.
   REACH. Any of the natural or human-made runoff conveyance channels used for
watershed runoff modeling purposes to connect the subareas and transport flows
downstream.
   RECHARGE VOLUME (REv). The portion of the water quality volume (WQv) used to
maintain groundwater recharge rates at development sites. (See §
153.038(J).)
   REGULATED ACTIVITIES. Actions or proposed actions which impact upon proper
management of stormwater runoff and which are governed by this chapter as
specified in §
153.005.
   REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITIES. Earth disturbance activity other
than agricultural plowing or tilling of one acre or more with a point source
discharge to surface waters or to the borough’s storm sewer system or earth
disturbance activity of five acres or more regardless of the planned runoff.
This includes earth disturbance on any portion of, part or during any stage of
a larger common plan of development.
   RELEASE RATE. The percentage of the pre-development peak rate of runoff for
a development site to which the post-development peak rate of runoff must be
controlled to avoid peak flow increases throughout the watershed.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval in years over which an event of a given
magnitude can be expected to recur. For example, the 25-year return period
rainfall or runoff event would be expected to recur on the average once every
25 years.
   ROAD MAINTENANCE. Earth disturbance activities within the existing road
cross-section such as grading and repairing existing unpaved road surfaces,
cutting road banks, cleaning or clearing drainage ditches and other similar
activities.
   RUNOFF. The part of precipitation which flows over the land.
   SEDIMENT TRAPS/CATCH BASIN SUMPS. Chambers which provide storage below the
outlet in a storm inlet to collect sediment, debris and associated pollutants,
typically requiring periodic clean out.
   SEEPAGE PIT/SEEPAGE TRENCH. An area of excavated earth filled with loose
stone or similar material and into which surface water is directed for
infiltration into the ground.
   SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A conveyance or system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, borough streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains) primarily used for
collecting and conveying stormwater runoff.
   SHEET FLOW. Stormwater runoff flowing in a thin layer over the ground
surface.
   SOIL-COVER-COMPLEX METHOD. A method of runoff computation developed by NRCS
which is based upon relating soil type and land use/cover to a runoff parameter
called a curve number.
   SPECIAL GEOLOGIC FEATURES. Carbonate bedrock features, including, but not
limited to, closed depressions, existing sinkholes, fracture traces,
lineaments, joints, faults, caves, pinnacles and geologic contacts between
carbonate and non-carbonate bedrock which may exist and must be identified on a
site when stormwater management BMPs are being considered.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM. A program that identifies procedures
for preventing and, as needed, cleaning up potential spills and makes such
procedures known and the necessary equipment available to appropriate
personnel.
   STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. As defined under state regulations,
protection of designated and existing uses (see 25 Pa. Code Chapters 93 and
96), including:
      (1)   Each stream segment in the state has a “designated use,” such as
“cold water fishes” or “potable water supply,” which is listed in 25 Pa. Code
Chapter 93. These uses must be protected and maintained, under state
regulations;
      (2)   EXISTING USES are those attained as of November 1975, regardless
whether they have been designated in 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93. Regulated earth
disturbance activities must be designed to protect and maintain existing uses
and maintain the level of water quality necessary to protect those uses in all
streams, and to protect and maintain water quality in special protection
streams; and
      (3)   Water quality involves the chemical, biological and physical
characteristics of surface water bodies. After regulated earth disturbance
activities are complete, these characteristics can be impacted by addition of
pollutants such as sediment, and changes in habitat through increased flow
volumes and/or rates as a result of changes in land surface area from those
activities. Therefore, permanent discharges to surface waters must be managed
to protect the stream bank, streambed and structural integrity of the waterway,
to prevent these impacts.
   STORAGE INDICATION METHOD. A method of routing or moving an inflow
hydrograph through a reservoir or detention structure. The method solves the
mass conservation equation to determine an outflow hydrograph as it leaves the
storage facility.
   STORM DRAINAGE PROBLEM AREAS. Areas which lack adequate stormwater
collection and/or conveyance facilities and which present a hazard to persons
or property. These areas are either documented in Appendix B of this chapter or
identified by the borough or Borough Engineer.
   STORM SEWER. A system of pipes or other conduits which carries intercepted
surface runoff, street water and other wash waters, or drainage, but excludes
domestic sewage and industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER. The surface runoff generated by precipitation reaching the
ground surface.
   STORMWATER FILTERS. Any number of structural mechanisms such as multi-
chamber catch basins, sand/peat filters, sand filters and so forth which are
installed to intercept stormwater flow and remove pollutants prior to
discharge. Typically, these systems require periodic maintenance and clean out.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan for managing stormwater runoff adopted
by Northampton County for the Bushkill Creek Watershed as required by the
Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.
   STREAM. A watercourse.
   SUBAREA. The smallest unit of watershed breakdown for hydrologic modeling
purposes for which the runoff control criteria have been established in the
stormwater management plan.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SURFACE WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All regulated activities in the borough shall be subject to the
stormwater management requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Storm drainage systems shall be provided to permit unobstructed flow
in natural watercourses except as modified by stormwater detention facilities,
recharge facilities, water quality facilities, pipe systems or open channels
consistent with this chapter.
   (C)   The existing locations of concentrated drainage discharge onto
adjacent property shall not be altered without written approval of the affected
property owner(s).
   (D)   Areas of existing diffused drainage discharge onto adjacent property
shall be managed such that, at minimum, the peak diffused flow does not
increase in the general direction of discharge, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter. If diffused flow is proposed to be concentrated and discharged
onto adjacent property, the developer must document that there are adequate
downstream conveyance facilities to safely transport the concentrated discharge
to the point of predevelopment flow concentration, to the stream reach or
otherwise prove that no harm will result from the concentrated discharge. Areas
of existing diffused drainage discharge shall be subject to any applicable
release rate criteria in the general direction of existing discharge whether
they are proposed to be concentrated or maintained as diffused drainage areas.
   (E)   Where a site is traversed by watercourses other than those for which a
100-year floodplain is defined by the borough, there shall be provided drainage
easements conforming substantially with the line of such watercourses. The
width of any easement shall be adequate to provide for unobstructed flow of
storm runoff based on calculations made in conformance with §
153.041 for the 100-year return period runoff and to provide a freeboard
allowance of one-half foot above the design water surface level. The terms of
the easement shall prohibit excavation, the placing of fill or structures, and
any alterations which may adversely affect the flow of stormwater within any
portion of the easement. Also, periodic maintenance of the easement to ensure
proper runoff conveyance shall be required. Watercourses for which the 100-year
floodplain is formally defined are subject to the applicable borough floodplain
regulations.
   (F)   When it can be shown that, due to topographic conditions, natural
drainage swales on the site cannot adequately provide for drainage, open
channels may be constructed conforming substantially to the line and grade of
such natural drainage swales. Capacities of open channels shall be calculated
using the Manning Equation.
   (G)   Post construction BMPs shall be designed, installed, operated and
maintained to meet the requirements of the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1
to 691.1001 and implementing regulations, including the established practices
in 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102 and the specifications of this chapter as to prevent
accelerated erosion in watercourse channels and at all points of discharge.
   (H)   No earth disturbance activities associated with any regulated
activities shall commence until approval by the borough of a plan which
demonstrates compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   Techniques described in
Appendix F (Low Impact Development) of this chapter are encouraged because they
reduce the costs of complying with the requirements of this chapter and the
state water quality requirements.
   (J)   Infiltration for stormwater management is encouraged where soils and
geology permit, consistent with the provisions of this chapter and, where
appropriate, the Recommendation Chart for Infiltration Stormwater Management
BMPs in Carbonate Bedrock in
Appendix D.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.036 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS BY OTHER GOVERNMENT ENTITIES.
   The following permit requirements apply to certain regulated and earth
disturbance activities and must be met prior to commencement of regulated and
earth disturbance activities, as applicable:
   (A)   All regulated and earth disturbance activities subject to permit
requirements by DEP under regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102;
   (B)   Work within natural drainageways subject to permit by DEP under 25 Pa.
Code Chapter 102 and Chapter 105;
   (C)   Any stormwater management facility that would be located in or
adjacent to surface waters of the commonwealth, including wetlands, subject to
permit by DEP under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105;
   (D)   Any stormwater management facility that would be located on a state
highway right-of-way or require access from a State highway shall be subject to
approval by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PENNDOT); and
   (E)   Culverts, bridges, storm sewers or any other facilities which must
pass or convey flows from the tributary area and any facility which may
constitute a dam subject to permit by DEP under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.037 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL DURING REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE
ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No regulated earth disturbance activities within the borough shall
commence until approval by the borough of an erosion and sediment control plan
for construction activities. Written approval by DEP or a delegated County
Conservation District shall satisfy this requirement.
   (B)   An erosion and sediment control plan is required by DEP regulations
for any earth disturbance activity of 5,000 square feet or more under 25 Pa.
Code § 102.4(b).
   (C)   A DEP NPDES stormwater discharges associated with construction
activities permit is required for regulated earth disturbance activities under
25 Pa. Code Chapter 92a.
   (D)   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for regulated earth disturbance
activities from the appropriate DEP regional office or County Conservation
District must be provided to the borough before the commencement of an earth
disturbance activity.
   (E)   A copy of the erosion and sediment control plan and any permit, as
required by DEP regulations, shall be available at the project site at all
times.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.038 POST CONSTRUCTION WATER QUALITY CRITERIA.
   (A)   No regulated earth disturbance activities within the borough shall
commence until approval by the borough of a drainage plan which demonstrates
compliance with this chapter. This chapter provides standards to meet NPDES
permit requirements associated with construction activities and MS4 permit
requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The water quality volume (WQv) shall be captured and treated.
The WQv shall be calculated two ways. First, WQv shall be calculated using the
following formula:
WQv = (c)(P)(A)
12
 
Where WQv = water quality volume in acre-feet
c = Rational Method post-development runoff coefficient for the 2-year storm
P = 1.25 inches
A = area in acres of proposed regulated activity
 
      (2)   Second, the WQv shall be calculated as the difference in runoff
volume from pre-development to post-development for the two-year return period
storm. The effect of closed depressions on the site shall be considered in this
calculation. The larger of these two calculated volumes shall be used as the
WQv to be captured and treated, except that in no case shall the WQv be
permitted to exceed one and one-fourth inches of runoff over the site area.
This standard does not limit the volume of infiltration an applicant may
propose for purposes of water quantity/peak rate control.
   (C)   (1)   The WQv shall be calculated for each post-development drainage
direction on a site for sizing BMPs.
      (2)   Site areas having no impervious cover and no proposed disturbance
during development may be excluded from the WQv calculations and do not require
treatment.
   (D)   If an applicant is proposing to use a dry extended detention basin,
wet pond, constructed wetland or other BMP that ponds water on the land surface
and may receive direct sunlight, the discharge from that BMP must be treated by
infiltration, a vegetated buffer, filter strip, bioretention, vegetated swale
or other BMP that provides a thermal benefit to protect the high quality waters
of the Bushkill Creek from thermal impacts.
   (E)   The WQv for a site as a result of the regulated activities must either
be treated with infiltration or two acceptable BMPs such as those listed in
division (O) below, except for minor areas on the periphery of the site that
cannot reasonably be drained to an infiltration facility or other BMP.
   (F)   Infiltration BMPs shall not be constructed on fill unless the
applicant demonstrates that the fill is stable and otherwise meets the
infiltration BMP standards of this chapter.
   (G)   The applicant shall document the bedrock type(s) present on the site
from published sources. Any apparent boundaries between carbonate and non-
carbonate bedrock shall be verified through more detailed site evaluations by a
qualified geotechnical professional.
   (H)   For each proposed regulated activity in the watershed where an
applicant intends to use infiltration BMPs, the applicant shall conduct a
preliminary site investigation, including gathering data from published
sources, a field inspection of the site, a minimum of one test pit and a
minimum of two percolation tests, as outlined in
Appendix G. This investigation will determine depth to bedrock, depth to the
seasonal high water table, soil permeability and location of special geologic
features, if applicable. This investigation may be done by a certified Sewage
Enforcement Officer (SEO) except that the location(s) of special geologic
features shall be verified by a qualified geotechnical professional.
   (I)   Sites where applicants intend to use infiltration BMPs must meet the
following criteria:
      (1)   Depth to bedrock below the invert of the BMP greater than or equal
to two feet;
      (2)   Depth to seasonal high water table below the invert of the BMP
greater than or equal to three feet; except for infiltration of residential
roof runoff where the seasonal high water table must be below the invert of the
BMP. (If the depth to bedrock is between two and three feet and the evidence of
the seasonal high water table is not found in the soil, no further testing to
locate the depth to seasonal high water table is required.);
      (3)   Soil permeability (as measured by the adapted 25 Pa. Code § 73.15,
percolation test in
Appendix G) greater than or equal to one-half inch/hour and less than or equal
to 12 inches per hour;
      (4)   Setback distances or buffers as follows:
         (a)   One hundred feet from water supply wells;
         (b)   Fifteen feet downgradient or 100 feet upgradient from building
foundations; except for residential development where the required set back is
15 feet downgradient or 40 feet upgradient from building foundations;
         (c)   Fifty feet from septic system drainfields; except for
residential development where the required setback is 25 feet from septic
system drainfields;
         (d)   Fifty feet from a geologic contact with carbonate bedrock unless
a preliminary site investigation is done in the carbonate bedrock to show the
absence of special geologic features within 50 feet of the proposed
infiltration area; and
         (e)   One hundred feet from the property line unless documentation is
provided to show that all setbacks from existing or potential future wells,
foundations and drainfields on neighboring properties will be met; except for
one- and two-family residential dwellings where the required setback is 40 feet
unless documentation is provided to show that all setbacks from existing or
potential future wells, foundations and drainfields on neighboring properties
will be met.
   (J)   For entirely non-carbonate sites, the recharge volume (REv) shall be
infiltrated unless the applicant demonstrates that it is infeasible to
infiltrate the REv for reasons of seasonal high water table, permeability rate,
soil depth or setback distances; or except as provided in division (I) above.
      (1)   The REv shall be calculated as follows:
 
REv = (0.25) * (I)/12
Where REv = Recharge volume in acre-feet
I = impervious area in acres
 
      (2)   The preliminary site investigation described in division (H) above
is required and shall continue on different areas of the site until a
potentially suitable infiltration location is found or the entire site is
determined to be infeasible for infiltration. For infiltration areas that
appear to be feasible based on the preliminary site investigation, the
additional site investigation and testing as outlined in
Appendix G shall be completed.
      (3)   If an applicant proposes infiltration, the borough may determine
infiltration to be infeasible if there are known existing conditions or
problems that may be worsened by the use of infiltration.
      (4)   The site must meet the conditions listed in division (I) above.
      (5)   If it is not feasible to infiltrate the full REv, the applicant
shall infiltrate that portion of the REv that is feasible based on the site
characteristics. If none of the REv can be infiltrated, REv shall be considered
as part of the WQv and shall be captured and treated as described in division
(I) below.
      (6)   If REv is infiltrated, it may be subtracted from the WQv required
to be captured and treated.
   (K)   (1)   In entirely carbonate areas, where the applicant intends to use
infiltration BMPs, the preliminary site investigation described in division (H)
above shall be conducted. For infiltration areas that appear feasible based on
the preliminary site investigation, the applicant shall conduct the additional
site investigation and testing as outlined in
Appendix G. The soil depth, percolation rate and proposed loading rate, each
weighted as described in §
153.041, along with the buffer from special geologic features shall be compared
to the Recommendation Chart for Infiltration Stormwater Management BMPs in
Carbonate Bedrock in
Appendix D to determine if the site is recommended for infiltration. In
addition to the recommendation from
Appendix D, the conditions listed in division (I) above are required for
infiltration in carbonate areas.
      (2)   Applicants are encouraged to infiltrate the REv, as calculated in
division (J) above, but are not required to use infiltration BMPs on a
carbonate site even if the site falls in the “recommended” range on the chart
in
Appendix D. Any amount of volume infiltrated can be subtracted from the WQv to
be treated by non-infiltration BMPs. If infiltration is not proposed, the full
WQv shall be treated by two acceptable BMPs, as specified in division (O)
below.
   (L)   If a site has both carbonate and non-carbonate areas, the applicant
shall investigate the ability of the non-carbonate portion of the site to fully
meet this chapter to meet the requirements for REv for the whole site through
infiltration. If that proves infeasible, infiltration in the carbonate area as
described in division (K) above or two other non-infiltration BMPs as described
in division (O) below must be used. No infiltration structure in the non-
carbonate area shall be located within 50 feet of a boundary with carbonate
bedrock, except when a preliminary site investigation has been done showing the
absence of special geologic features within 50 feet of the proposed
infiltration area.
   (M)   If infiltration BMPs are proposed in carbonate areas, the post-
development two-year runoff volume leaving the site shall be 80% or more of the
pre-development runoff volume for the carbonate portion of the site to prevent
infiltration of volumes far in excess of the pre-development infiltration
volume.
   (N)   Site areas proposed for infiltration shall be protected from
disturbance and compaction except as necessary for construction of infiltration
BMPs.
   (O)   If infiltration of the entire WQv is not proposed, the remainder of
the WQv shall be treated by two acceptable BMPs in series for each discharge
location. Sheet flow draining across a pervious area can be considered as one
BMP. Sheet flow across impervious areas and concentrated flow shall flow
through two BMPs. If sheet flow from an impervious area is to be drained across
a pervious area as one BMP, the length of the pervious area must be equal to or
greater than the length of impervious area. In no case may the same BMP be
employed consecutively to meet the requirement of this section. Acceptable BMPs
are listed below along with the recommended reference for design.
Number Design Reference Title
Number Design Reference Title
10     Maryland Stormwater Design Manual, Maryland Department of the
       Environment. Baltimore, Maryland, 2000
11     Pennsylvania Handbook of Best Management Practices for Developing Areas,
       Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, 1998
12     Recommended Procedures for Act 167 Drainage Plan Design, LVPC, Revised
       1997
13     Roof Gardens History, Design and Construction, Osmundson, Theodore. New
       York: W.W. Norton & Company, 1999
14     The Texas Manual on Rainwater Harvesting, Texas Water Development Board,
       Austin, Texas. Third Edition, 2005
15     VDOT Manual of Practice for Stormwater Management, Virginia
       Transportation Research Council, Charlottesville, Virginia, 2004
16     Virginia Stormwater Management Handbook, Virginia Department of
       Conservation and Recreation, Richmond, Virginia, 1999
17     Water Resources Engineering, Mays, L. W., John Wiley & Sons. Inc., 2005
18     Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Report 55, US Department
       of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, 1986
19     US EPA, Region 1 New England web site (as of August 2005) http://
       www.epa.gov/NE/assistance/ceitts/stormwaterkechs/html.
 
   (P)   (1)   Stormwater runoff from hot spot land uses shall be pre-treated.
In no case, may the same BMP be employed consecutively to meet this requirement
and the requirement in division (O) above. Acceptable methods of pre-treatment
are listed below:
Hot Spot Land Use Pre-treatment Method(s)
Hot Spot    Pre-treatment Method(s)
Land Use
Certain
industrial
uses        -   BMPs that are a part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under an
(listed     NPDES permit
under
NPDES)*
Commercial  -   Vegetated swales/filter strip
nursery     -   Constructed wetlands
operations  -   Stormwater collection and reuse
Facilities
that store  -   BMPs that are a part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under an
or generate NPDES permit
regulated
substances*
Fleet
storage
yards and   -   BMPs that are a part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under an
vehicle     NPDES permit
cleaning
facilities*
Marinas*    -   BMPs that are a part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under an
            NPDES permit
Outdoor
storage of  -   Spill prevention and response program
liquids
Salvage
yards and   -   BMPs that are a part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under an
recycling   NPDES permit
facilities
Storage     -   Water quality inlets
areas for   -   Use of drip pans and/or dry sweep material under vehicles/equipment
public      -   Use of absorbent devices to reduce liquid releases
works       -   Spill prevention and response program
            -   Diversion of stormwater away from potential contamination areas
Vehicle     -   Water quality inlets
fueling     -   Spill prevention and response program
stations
Vehicle
maintenance -   Water quality inlets
and repair  -   Use of drip pans and/or dry sweep material under vehicles/equipment
facilities  -   Use of absorbent devices to reduce liquid releases
including   -   Spill prevention and response program
auto parts
stores
*Regulated under the NPDES stormwater program
 
      (2)   Design references for the pre-treatment methods, as necessary, are
listed below. If the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
borough that the proposed land use is not a hot spot, then the pre-treatment
requirement would not apply.
Pre-treatment Method Design Reference*
Pre-treatment Method                                        Design Reference*
Constructed wetlands                                        4, 5, 8, 10, 16
Diversion of stormwater away from potential contamination   4, 11
areas
Stormwater collection and reuse (especially for irrigation) 4, 14
Stormwater filters (sand, peat, compost and the like)       4, 5, 10, 16
Vegetated swales                                            2, 3, 5, 11, 16, 17
Water quality inlets                                        4, 7, 15, 16, 19
*These numbers refer to the design reference title chart in division (O) above
 
   (Q)   The use of infiltration BMPs is prohibited on hot spot land use areas.
   (R)   Stormwater infiltration BMPs shall not be placed in or on a special
geologic feature(s). Additionally, stormwater runoff shall not be discharged
into existing on-site sinkholes.
   (S)   Applicants shall request, in writing, public water suppliers to
provide the Zone I wellhead protection radius, as calculated by the method
outlined in the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection wellhead
protection regulations, for any public water supply well within 400 feet of the
site. In addition to the setback distances specified in division (I) above,
infiltration is prohibited in the Zone I radius as defined and substantiated by
the public water supplier in writing. If the applicant does not receive a
response from the public water supplier, the Zone I radius is assumed to be 100
feet.
   (T)   The volume and rate of the net increase in stormwater runoff from the
regulated activities must be managed to prevent the physical degradation of
receiving waters from such effects as scour and streambank destabilization, to
satisfy state water quality requirements, by controlling the two-year post-
development runoff to a 30% release rate.
   (U)   The borough may, after consultation with DEP, approve alternative
methods for meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in
this section provided that they meet the minimum requirements of and do not
conflict with state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to 691.1001.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.039 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Mapping of stormwater management districts. To implement the
provisions of the Bushkill Creek watershed stormwater management plan, the
borough is hereby divided into stormwater management districts consistent with
the Bushkill Creek release rate map presented in the plan update. The
boundaries of the stormwater management districts are shown on an official map
which is available for inspection at the borough office. A copy of the official
map at a reduced scale is included in Appendix A for general reference.
   (B)   Description of stormwater management districts. Two types of
stormwater management districts may be applicable to the borough, namely
conditional/provisional no detention districts and dual release rate districts
as described below.
      (1)   Conditional/provisional no detention districts. Within these
districts, the capacity of the “local” runoff conveyance facilities (as defined
in §
153.020) must be calculated to determine if adequate capacity exists. For this
determination, the developer must calculate peak flows assuming that the site
is developed as proposed and that the remainder of the local watershed is in
the existing condition. The developer must also calculate peak flows assuming
that the entire local watershed is developed per current zoning and that all
new development would use the runoff controls specified by this chapter. The
larger of the two peak flows calculated will be used in determining if adequate
capacity exists. If adequate capacity exists to safely transport runoff from
the site to the main channel (as defined in §
153.020), these watershed areas may discharge post-development peak runoff
without detention facilities. If the capacity calculations show that the
“local” runoff conveyance facilities lack adequate capacity, the developer
shall either use a 100% release rate control or provide increased capacity of
downstream elements to convey increased peak flows consistent with §
153.040(P). Any capacity improvements must be designed to convey runoff from
development of all areas tributary to the improvement consistent with the
capacity criteria specified in §
153.040(D). By definition, a storm drainage problem area associated with the
“local” runoff conveyance facilities indicates that adequate capacity does not
exist. Sites in these districts are still required to meet all of the water
quality requirements in §
153.038.
      (2)   Dual release rate districts. Within these districts, the two-year
post-development peak discharge must be controlled to 30% of the pre-
development two-year runoff peak. Further, the ten-year, 25-year and 100-year
post-development peak runoff must be controlled to the stated percentage of the
pre-development peak. Release rates associated with the ten- through 100-year
events vary from 50% to 100% depending upon location in the watershed. (For the
Monocacy Creek and Nancy Run Watersheds, the original single release rate
districts become dual release rate districts due to the channel protection
standard requiring developments to meet a two-year 30% release rate.)
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.040 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicants shall provide a comparative pre- and post-construction
stormwater management hydrograph analysis for each direction of discharge and
for the site overall to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any stormwater management controls required by this chapter and
subject to a dual release rate criteria shall meet the applicable release rate
criteria for each of the two-, ten-, 25- and 100-year return period runoff
events consistent with the calculation methodology specified in §
153.041.
   (C)   The exact location of the stormwater management district boundaries as
they apply to a given development site shall be determined by mapping the
boundaries using the two-foot topographic contours provided as part of the
drainage plan. The district boundaries as originally drawn coincide with
topographic divides or, in certain instances, are drawn from the intersection
of the watercourse and a physical feature such as the confluence with another
watercourse or a potential flow obstruction (e.g., road, culvert, bridge and
the like). The physical feature is the downstream limit of the subarea and the
subarea boundary is drawn from that point up slope to each topographic divide
along the path perpendicular to the contour lines.
   (D)   Any downstream capacity analysis conducted in accordance with this
chapter shall use the following criteria for determining adequacy for accepting
increased peak flow rates.
      (1)   Natural or human-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased runoff associated with a two-year return period event within their
banks at velocities consistent with protection of the channels from erosion.
      (2)   Natural or human-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased 25-year return period runoff without creating any hazard to persons
or property.
      (3)   Culverts, bridges, storm sewers or any other facilities which must
pass or convey flows from the tributary area must be designed in accordance
with DEP regulations, 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105 (if applicable) and, at minimum,
pass the increased 25-year return period runoff.
   (E)   For a proposed development site located within one release rate
category subarea, the total runoff from the site shall meet the applicable
release rate criteria. For development sites with multiple directions of runoff
discharge, individual drainage directions may be designed for up to a 100%
release rate so long as the total runoff from the site is controlled to the
applicable release rate.
   (F)   For a proposed development site located within two or more release
category subareas, the peak discharge rate from any subarea shall be the pre-
development peak discharge for that subarea multiplied by the applicable
release rate. The calculated peak discharges shall apply regardless of whether
the grading plan changes the drainage area by subarea. An exception to the
above may be granted if discharges from multiple subareas re-combine in
proximity to the site. In this case, peak discharge in any direction may be a
100% release rate provided that the overall site discharge meets the weighted
average release rate.
   (G)   For a proposed development site located partially within a release
rate category subarea and partially within a conditional/provisional no
detention subarea, the size of the pre-development drainage area on a site may
not be changed post-development to create potentially adverse conditions on
downstream properties except as part of a “no harm” or hardship waiver
procedure.
   (H)   No portion of a site may be regraded between the Bushkill Creek
Watershed and any adjacent watershed except as part of a “no harm” or hardship
waiver procedure.
   (I)   (1)   Within a release rate category area, for a proposed development
site which has areas which drain to a closed depression(s), the design release
from the site will be the lesser of:
         (a)   The applicable release rate flow assuming no closed depression
(s); or
         (b)   The existing peak flow actually leaving the site.
      (2)   In cases where division (I)(1)(b) above would result in an
unreasonably small design release, the design discharge of less than or equal
to the release rate will be determined by the available downstream conveyance
capacity to the main channel calculated using division (D) above and the
minimum orifice criteria.
   (J)   Off-site areas which drain through a proposed development site are not
subject to release rate criteria when determining allowable peak runoff rates.
However, on-site drainage facilities shall be designed to safely convey off-
site flows through the development site using the capacity criteria in division
(D) above and the detention criteria in §
153.041.
   (K)   For development sites proposed to take place in phases, all detention
ponds shall be designed to meet the applicable release rate(s) applied to all
site areas tributary to the proposed pond discharge direction. All site
tributary areas will be assumed as developed, regardless of whether all site
tributary acres are proposed for development at that time. An exception shall
be sites with multiple detention ponds in series where only the downstream pond
must be designed to the stated release rate.
   (L)   Where the site area to be impacted by a proposed development activity
differs significantly from the total site area, only the proposed impact area
shall be subject to the release rate criteria. The impact area includes any
proposed cover or grading changes.
   (M)   Development proposals which, through groundwater recharge or other
means, do not increase either the rate or volume of runoff discharged from the
site compared to pre-development are not subject to the release rate provisions
of this chapter.
   (N)   “No harm” water quantity option.
      (1)   For any proposed development site not located in a conditional/
provisional no detention district, the developer has the option of using a less
restrictive runoff control (including no detention) if the developer can prove
that special circumstances exist for the proposed development site and that “no
harm” would be caused by discharging at a higher runoff rate than that
specified by the plan. Special circumstances are defined as any hydrologic or
hydraulic aspects of the development itself not specifically considered in the
development of the plan runoff control strategy. Proof of “no harm” would have
to be shown from the development site through the remainder of the downstream
drainage network to the confluence of the creek with the Delaware or Lehigh
River. Proof of “no harm” must be shown using the capacity criteria specified
in division (D) above if downstream capacity analysis is a part of the “no
harm” justification.
      (2)   Attempts to prove “no harm” based upon downstream peak flow versus
capacity analysis shall be governed by the following provisions:
         (a)   The peak flow values to be used for downstream areas for the
design return period storms (two-, ten-, 25- and 100-year) shall be the values
from the calibrated PSRM model for the Bushkill Creek or as calculated by an
applicant using an alternate method acceptable to the borough. The flow values
from the PSRM model would be supplied to the developer by the borough upon
request.
         (b)   Any available capacity in the downstream conveyance system as
documented by a developer may be used by the developer only in proportion to
his or her development site acreage relative to the total upstream undeveloped
acreage from the identified capacity (i.e., if his or her site is 10% of the
upstream undeveloped acreage, he or she may use up to 10% of the documented
downstream available capacity).
         (c)   Developer-proposed runoff controls which would generate
increased peak flow rates at storm drainage problem areas would, by definition,
be precluded from successful attempts to prove “no harm”, except in conjunction
with proposed capacity improvements for the problem areas consistent with
division (P) below.
      (3)   Any “no harm” justifications shall be submitted by the developer as
part of the drainage plan submission per §§
153.055 through
153.061. Developers submitting “no harm” justifications must still meet all of
the water quality requirements in §
153.038.
   (O)   Regional detention alternatives: for certain areas within the study
area, it may be more cost-effective to provide one control facility for more
than one development site than to provide an individual control facility for
each development site. The initiative and funding for any regional runoff
control alternatives are the responsibility of prospective developers. The
design of any regional control basins must incorporate reasonable development
of the entire upstream watershed. The peak outflow of a regional basin would be
determined based on the required release rate at the point of discharge.
   (P)   Capacity improvements.
      (1)   In certain instances, primarily within the conditional/provisional
no detention areas, local drainage conditions may dictate more stringent levels
of runoff control than those based upon protection of the entire watershed. In
these instances, if the developer could prove that it would be feasible to
provide capacity improvements to relieve the capacity deficiency in the local
drainage network, then the capacity improvements could be provided by the
developer in lieu of runoff controls on the development site. Peak flow
calculations shall be done assuming that the local watershed is in the existing
condition and then assuming that the local watershed is developed per current
zoning and using the specified runoff controls. Any capacity improvements would
be designed using the larger of the above peak flows and the capacity criteria
specified in division (D) above. All new development in the entire subarea(s)
within which the proposed development site is located shall be assumed to
implement the developer’s proposed discharge control, if any.
      (2)   Capacity improvements may also be provided as necessary to
implement any regional detention alternatives or to implement a modified “no
harm” option which proposes specific capacity improvements to provide that a
less stringent discharge control would not create any harm downstream.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.041 CALCULATION METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   Stormwater runoff from all development sites shall be calculated using
either the rational method or the soil-cover-complex methodology.
   (B)   (1)   Infiltration BMP loading rate percentages in the Recommendation
Chart for Infiltration Stormwater Management BMPs in Carbonate Bedrock in
Appendix D shall be calculated as follows:
 
Area Tributary to infiltration BMP
Base area of infiltration BMP * 100%
 
      (2)   The area tributary to the infiltration BMP shall be weighted as
follows:
         (a)   All disturbed areas to be made impervious: weight at 100%;
         (b)   All disturbed areas to be made pervious: weight at 50%;
         (c)   All undisturbed pervious areas: weight at 0%; and
         (d)   All existing impervious areas: weight at 100%.
   (C)   (1)   Soil thickness is to be measured from the bottom of any proposed
infiltration system. The effective soil thickness in the Recommendation Chart
for Infiltration Stormwater Management BMPs in Carbonate Bedrock in
Appendix D is the measured soil thickness multiplied by the thickness factor
based on soil permeability (as measured by the adapted 25 Pa. Code § 73.15)
percolation test in
Appendix G), as follows:
 
Permeability Range*    Thickness Factor
6.0 to 12.0 inches/    0.8
hour
2.0 to 6.0 inches/hour 1.0
1.0 to 2.0 inches/hour 1.4
0.75 to 1.0 inches/    1.2
hour
0.5 to 0.75 inches/    1.0
hour
*   If the permeability rate (as measured by the adapted 25 Pa. Code § 73.15
percolation test in Appendix G) falls on a break between two thickness factors,
the smaller thickness factor shall be used
 
      (2)   Sites with soil permeability greater than 12.0 inch/hour or less
than one-half inch/hour, as measured by the adapted 25 Pa. Code § 73.15,
percolation test in
Appendix G, are not recommended for infiltration.
   (D)   The design of any detention basin intended to meet the requirements of
this chapter shall be verified by routing the design storm hydrograph through
the proposed basin using the storage indication method or other methodology
demonstrated to be more appropriate. For basins designed using the Rational
Method technique, the design hydrograph for routing shall be either the
Universal Rational Hydrograph or the Modified Rational Method trapezoidal
hydrograph which maximizes detention volume. Use of the Modified Rational
hydrograph shall be consistent with the procedure described in section
“PIPE.RAT” of the Users’ Manual for the Penn State Urban Hydrology Model
(1987).
   (E)   BMPs designed to store or infiltrate runoff and discharge to surface
runoff or pipe flow shall be routed using the storage indication method.
   (F)   BMPs designed to store or infiltrate runoff and discharge to surface
runoff or pipe flow shall provide storage volume for the full WQv below the
lowest outlet invert.
   (G)   Wet detention ponds designed to have a permanent pool for the WQv
shall assume that the permanent pool volume below the primary outlet is full at
the beginning of design event routing for the purposes of evaluating peak
outflows.
   (H)   All stormwater detention facilities shall provide a minimum one foot
freeboard above the maximum pool elevation associated with the two- through 25-
year runoff events. A one-half-foot freeboard shall be provided above the
maximum pool elevation of the 100-year runoff event. The freeboard shall be
measured from the maximum pool elevation to the invert of the emergency
spillway. The two- through 100- year storm events shall be controlled by the
primary outlet structure. An emergency spillway for each basin shall be
designed to pass the 100-year return frequency storm peak basin inflow rate
with a minimum one- half foot freeboard measured to the top of basin. The
freeboard criteria shall be met considering any off-site areas tributary to the
basin as developed, as applicable. If this detention facility is considered to
be a dam as per DEP regulations, 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105 the design of the
facility must be consistent with the Chapter 105 regulations, and may be
required to pass a storm greater than the 100-year event.
   (I)   The minimum circular orifice diameter for controlling discharge rates
from detention facilities shall be three inches. Designs where a lesser size
orifice would be required to fully meet release rates shall be acceptable with
a three-inch orifice provided that as much of the site runoff as practical is
directed to the detention facilities. The minimum three-inch diameter does not
apply to the control of the WQv.
   (J)   (1)   Runoff calculations using the soil-cover-complex method shall
use the Natural Resources Conservation Service Type II 24-hour rainfall
distribution. The 24-hour rainfall depths for the various return periods to be
used consistent with this chapter may be taken from NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 2
Version 2.1, 2004 or the PennDOT Intensity, Duration, Frequency Field Manual
(“PDT - IDF”) (May 1986) for Region 4. The following values are taken from the
PDT-IDF Field Manual:
Return Period 24-Hour Rainfall Depth
Return Period 24-Hour Rainfall Depth
1-year        2.40 inches
2-year        3.00 inches
5-year        3.60 inches
10-year       4.56 inches
25-year       5.52 inches
50-year       6.48 inches
100-year      7.44 inches
 
      (2)   A graphical and tabular presentation of the Type II 24 hour
distribution is included in
Appendix C.
   (K)   Runoff calculations using the Rational Method shall use rainfall
intensities consistent with appropriate times of concentration and return
periods and NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 2 Version 2.1, 2004 or the intensity-
duration-frequency curves as presented in
Appendix C.
   (L)   Runoff curve numbers (CNs) to be used in the soil-cover-complex method
shall be based upon the matrix presented in
Appendix C.
   (M)   Runoff coefficients for use in the Rational Method shall be based upon
the table presented in
Appendix C.
   (N)   All time of concentration calculations shall use a segmental approach
which may include one or all of the flow types below.
      (1)   (a)   Sheet flow (overland flow) calculations shall use either the
NRCS average velocity chart (Figure 3-1, Technical Release-55, 1975) or the
modified kinematic wave travel time equation (equation 3-3, NRCS TR55, June
1986).
         (b)   If using the modified kinematic wave travel time equation, the
sheet flow length shall be limited to 50 feet for designs using the Rational
Method and limited to 150 feet for designs using the soil-cover-complex method.
      (2)   Shallow concentrated flow travel times shall be determined from the
watercourse slope, type of surface and the velocity from Figure 3-1 of TR-55,
June 1986.
      (3)   (a)   Open channel flow travel times shall be determined from
velocities calculated by the Manning Equation. Bankfull flows shall be used for
determining velocities.
         (b)   Manning ‘n’ values shall be based on the table presented in
Appendix C.
      (4)   Pipe flow travel times shall be determined from velocities
calculated using the Manning Equation assuming full flow and the Manning ‘n’
values from
Appendix C.
   (O)   If using the Rational Method, all pre-development calculations for a
given discharge direction shall be based on a common time of concentration
considering both on-site and any off-site drainage areas. If using the Rational
Method, all post-development calculations for a given discharge direction shall
be based on a common time of concentration considering both on-site and any
off-site drainage areas.
   (P)   The Manning Equation shall be used to calculate the capacity of
watercourses. Manning ‘n’ values used in the calculations shall be consistent
with the table presented in Appendix C or other appropriate standard
engineering ‘n’ value resources. Pipe capacities shall be determined by methods
acceptable to the borough.
   (Q)   (1)   The Pennsylvania DEP, Chapter 105, Rules and Regulations, apply
to the construction, modification, operation or maintenance of both existing
and proposed dams, water obstructions and encroachments throughout the
watershed.
      (2)   Criteria for design and construction of stormwater management
facilities according to this chapter may differ from the criteria that are used
in the permitting of dams under the Dam Safety Program.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
DRAINAGE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.055 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   For any of the regulated activities of this chapter, prior to the final
approval of subdivision and/or land development plans, or the issuance of any
permit, or the commencement of any regulated earth disturbance activity, the
owner, subdivider, developer or his or her agent shall submit a drainage plan
and receive municipal approval of the plan.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.056 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions from the drainage plan requirements are as specified in §
153.006.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.057 DRAINAGE PLAN CONTENTS.
   The following items shall be included in the drainage plan:
   (A)   General.
      (1)   General description of project;
      (2)   General description of proposed permanent stormwater controls; and
      (3)   The name and address of the project site, the name and address of
the owner of the property and the name of the individual or firm preparing the
drainage plan.
   (B)   Maps. Map(s) of the project area showing:
      (1)   The location of the project relative to highways, municipalities or
other identifiable landmarks;
      (2)   Existing contours at intervals of two feet. In areas of steep
slopes (greater than 15%), five-foot contour intervals may be used. Off-site
drainage areas impacting the project including topographic detail;
      (3)   Streams, lakes, ponds or other bodies of water within the project
area;
      (4)   Other features including flood hazard boundaries, existing drainage
swales, wetlands, closed depressions, sinkholes and areas of natural vegetation
to be preserved;
      (5)   Locations of proposed underground utilities, sewers and water
lines. The locations of all existing and proposed utilities, sanitary sewers
and water lines within 50 feet of property lines of the project site;
      (6)   An overlay showing soil types and boundaries based on the Lehigh or
Northampton County soil survey, as applicable, latest edition. Any hydric soils
present on the site should be identified as such;
      (7)   An overlay showing geologic types, boundaries and any special
geologic features present on the site;
      (8)   Proposed changes to land surface and vegetative cover;
      (9)   Proposed structures, roads, paved areas and buildings;
      (10)   Final contours at intervals of two feet. In areas of steep slopes
(greater than 15%), five-foot contour intervals may be used;
      (11)   Stormwater management district boundaries applicable to the site;
      (12)   Clear identification of the location and nature of permanent
stormwater BMPs;
      (13)   An adequate access easement around all stormwater BMPs that would
provide municipal ingress to and egress from a public right-of-way;
      (14)   A schematic showing all tributaries contributing flow to the site
and all existing human-made features beyond the property boundary that would be
affected by the project; and
      (15)   The location of all public water supply wells within 400 feet of
the project and all private water supply wells within 100 feet of the project.
   (C)   Stormwater management controls and BMPs.
      (1)   All stormwater management controls and BMPs shall be shown on a map
and described, including:
         (a)   Groundwater recharge methods such as seepage pits, beds or
trenches. When these structures are used, the locations of septic tank
infiltration areas and wells shall be shown; and
         (b)   Other control devices or methods such as roof-top storage, semi-
pervious paving materials, grass swales, parking lot ponding, vegetated strips,
detention or retention ponds, storm sewers and the like.
      (2)   All calculations, assumptions and criteria used in the design of
the BMPs shall be shown;
      (3)   All site testing data used to determine the feasibility of
infiltration on a site; and
      (4)   All details and specifications for the construction of the
stormwater management controls and BMPs.
   (D)   BMP operations and management plan. The BMP operations and management
plan, as required in §§
153.105 through
153.111, describing how each permanent stormwater BMP will be operated and
maintained and the identity of the person(s) responsible for operations and
maintenance. A statement must be included, signed by the landowner,
acknowledging that the stormwater BMPs are fixtures that cannot be altered or
removed without approval by the borough.
   (E)   Environmental resources site design assessment.
      (1)   An environmental resources site design assessment that describes
the following:
         (a)   The extent to which the proposed grading and impervious cover
avoid disturbance of significant environmental resources and preserve existing
site hydrology;
         (b)   An assessment of whether alternative grading and impervious
cover site design could lessen the disturbance of significant environmental
resources and/or make better use of the site hydrologic resources; and
         (c)   A description of how the proposed stormwater management controls
and BMPs serve to mitigate any adverse impacts on environmental resources on
the site.
      (2)   Significant environmental resources considered in the site design
assessment include, but are not limited to, steep slopes, ponds, lakes,
streams, wetlands, hydric soils, floodplains, riparian vegetation, native
vegetation and special geologic features.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.058 PLAN SUBMISSION.
   (A)   For regulated activities specified in §
153.005(B)(1) and (B)(2):
      (1)   The drainage plan shall be submitted by the developer to the
Municipal Secretary/Treasurer (or other appropriate person) as part of the
preliminary plan submission for the subdivision or land development;
      (2)   Four copies of the drainage plan shall be submitted;
      (3)   Distribution of the drainage plan will be as follows:
         (a)   One copy to the Borough Council;
         (b)   One copy to the Borough Engineer; and
         (c)   Two copies to the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission, except for
drainage plans involving less than 10,000 square feet of additional impervious
cover.
      (4)   Drainage plans involving more than 10,000 square feet of additional
impervious cover shall be submitted by the developer (possibly through the
municipality) to the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission as part of the
preliminary plan submission. The Lehigh Valley Planning Commission will conduct
an advisory review of the drainage plan for consistency with the Bushkill Creek
watershed stormwater management plan. The LVPC will not review details of the
erosion and sedimentation plan or the BMP operations and maintenance plan.
         (a)   Two copies of the drainage plan shall be submitted.
         (b)   The LVPC will provide written comments to the developer and the
borough, within a time frame consistent with established procedures under the
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as to whether the
drainage plan has been found to be consistent with the stormwater management
plan.
   (B)   For regulated activities specified in §
153.005(B)(3) and (B)(4), the drainage plan shall be submitted by the developer
to the borough building permit officer as part of the building permit
application.
   (C)   For regulated activities specified in §
153.005(B)(5) and (B)(6) and (B)(7):
      (1)   The drainage plan shall be submitted by the developer to the Lehigh
Valley Planning Commission for coordination with the DEP regulations under 25
Pa. Code Chapters 105 and 106; and
      (2)   One copy of the drainage plan shall be submitted.
   (D)   Earthmoving for all regulated activities under §
153.005(B) shall be conducted in accordance with the current federal and state
regulations relative to the NPDES and DEP regulations, 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.059 DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The borough shall review the drainage plan, including the BMP
operations and maintenance plan, for consistency with the adopted Bushkill
Creek watershed stormwater management plan as embodied by this chapter and with
any permits issued by DEP. The borough shall also review the drainage plan
against any additional storm drainage provisions contained in the borough
subdivision and land development ordinance (Chapter 154 of this code of
ordinances) or zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference in Chapter 155 of this
code of ordinances, as applicable.
   (B)   The borough shall notify the applicant in writing whether the drainage
plan, including the BMP operations and maintenance plan, is approved.
   (C)   The borough shall not approve any subdivision or land development
(regulated activities § 153.005(B)(1) and (B)(2)) or building permit
application (regulated activities § 153.005(B)(3) and (B)(4)) if the drainage
plan has been found to be inconsistent with the stormwater management plan.
   (D)   The borough may require an “as-built survey” of all stormwater BMPs
and an explanation of any discrepancies with the drainage plan.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.060 MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   A modification to a submitted drainage plan for a proposed development site
which involves a change in control methods or techniques, or which involves the
relocation or redesign of control measures, or which is necessary because soil
or other conditions are not as stated on the drainage plan (as determined by
the borough) shall require a resubmission of the modified drainage plan
consistent with §
153.058 subject to review per §
153.059.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.061 HARDSHIP WAIVER PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The borough may hear requests for waivers where it is alleged that the
provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon the applicant. The
waiver request shall be in writing and accompanied by the requisite fee based
upon a fee schedule adopted by the borough. A copy of the waiver request shall
be provided to each of the following: borough; Borough Engineer; Borough
Solicitor; and Lehigh Valley Planning Commission. The request shall fully
document the nature of the alleged hardship.
   (B)   The borough may grant a waiver provided that all of the following
findings are made in a given case:
      (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity of lot size or shape, or exceptional topographical or other
physical conditions peculiar to the particular property, and that the
unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions, and not the circumstances or
conditions generally created by the provisions of this chapter in the
stormwater management district in which the property is located;
      (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, including the “no harm” provisions, and that the
authorization of a waiver is therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use
of the property;
      (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the applicant;
      (4)   The waiver, if authorized, will represent the minimum waiver that
will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of the
regulation in issue; and
      (5)   Financial hardship is not the criteria for granting of a hardship
waiver.
   (C)   In granting any waiver, the borough may attach such conditions and
safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter.
If a hardship waiver is granted, the applicant must still manage the quantity,
velocity, direction and quality of resulting storm runoff as is necessary to
prevent injury to health, safety or other property.
      (1)   For regulated activities described in §
153.005(B)(1) and (B)(2), the Borough Council shall hear requests for and
decide on hardship waiver requests on behalf of the borough.
      (2)   For regulated activities in §
153.005(B)(3) through (B)(7), the Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for
and decide on hardship waiver requests on behalf of the borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
INSPECTIONS
§ 153.075 SCHEDULE OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   DEP or its designees (e.g., County Conservation District)
normally ensure compliance with any permits issued, including those for
stormwater management.
      (2)   In addition to DEP compliance programs, the borough or its designee
may inspect all phases of the construction, operations, maintenance and any
other implementation of stormwater BMPs.
   (B)   During any stage of the regulated earth disturbance activities, if the
borough or its designee determines that any BMPs are not being implemented in
accordance with this chapter, the borough may suspend or revoke any existing
permits issued by the borough or other approvals issued by the borough until
the deficiencies are corrected.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
FEES AND EXPENSES
§ 153.090 GENERAL.
   The borough may charge a reasonable fee for review of the drainage plan,
including the BMP operations and maintenance plan, to defray review costs
incurred by the borough. The applicant shall pay all such fees.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.091 EXPENSES COVERED BY FEES.
   The fees required by this chapter shall at a minimum cover:
   (A)   The review of the drainage plan, including the BMP operations and
maintenance plan, by the borough;
   (B)   The site inspection;
   (C)   The inspection of required controls and improvements during
construction;
   (D)   The final inspection upon completion of the controls and improvements
required in the plan;
   (E)   Any additional work required to monitor and enforce any permit
provisions, regulated by this chapter, correct violations and assure the
completion of stipulated remedial actions; and
   (F)   Administrative and clerical costs.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
STORMWATER BMP OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.105 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No regulated earth disturbance activities within the borough shall commence
until approval by the borough of the BMP operations and maintenance plan which
describes how the permanent (e.g., post construction) stormwater BMPs will be
properly operated and maintained.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§
153.106 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF BMPs.
   (A)   The BMP operations and maintenance plan for the project site shall
establish responsibilities for the continuing operation and maintenance of all
permanent stormwater BMPs, as follows.
      (1)   If a plan includes structures or lots which are to be separately
owned and in which streets, sewers and other public improvements are to be
dedicated to the borough, stormwater BMPs may also be dedicated to and
maintained by the borough.
      (2)   If a plan includes operations and maintenance by a single owner or
if sewers and other public improvements are to be privately owned and
maintained, then the operation and maintenance of stormwater BMPs shall be the
responsibility of the owner or private management entity.
   (B)   The borough shall make the final determination on the continuing
operations and maintenance responsibilities. The borough reserves the right to
accept or reject the operations and maintenance responsibility for any or all
of the stormwater BMPs.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.107 ADHERENCE TO APPROVED BMP OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN.
   It shall be unlawful to alter or remove any permanent stormwater BMP
required by an approved BMP operations and maintenance plan or to allow the
property to remain in a condition which does not conform to an approved BMP
operations and maintenance plan unless an exception is granted in writing by
the borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.108 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FOR PRIVATELY OWNED STORMWATER
BMPs.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner shall sign an operations and maintenance
agreement with the borough covering all stormwater BMPs that are to be
privately owned.
      (2)   The agreement shall be substantially the same as the agreement in
Appendix E.
   (B)   (1)   Other items may be included in the agreement where determined by
the borough to be reasonable or necessary to guarantee the satisfactory
operation and maintenance of all permanent stormwater BMPs.
      (2)   The agreement shall be subject to the review and approval of the
borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.109 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENTS.
   Stormwater management easements shall be provided by the property owner if
necessary for access for inspections and maintenance or for preservation of
stormwater conveyance, infiltration, detention areas and other BMPs by persons
other than the property owner. The purpose of the easement shall be specified
in any agreement under §
153.108.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.110 RECORDING OF APPROVED BMP OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN AND RELATED
AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of any land upon which permanent BMPs will be placed,
constructed or implemented, as described in the BMP operations and maintenance
plan, shall record the following documents in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds for Lehigh or Northampton County, as applicable, within 90 days of
approval of the BMP operations and maintenance plan by the borough:
      (1)   The operations and maintenance plan or a summary thereof;
      (2)   Operations and maintenance agreements under §
153.108; and
      (3)   Easements under §
153.109.
   (B)   The borough may suspend or revoke any approvals granted for the
project site upon discovery of the failure of the owner to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.111 BOROUGH STORMWATER BMP OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   If stormwater BMPs are accepted by the borough for dedication, the
borough may require the applicant to pay a specified amount to the borough
stormwater BMP Operations and Maintenance Fund to help defray costs of
operations and maintenance activities. The amount may be determined as follows:
      (1)   If the BMP is to be owned and maintained by the borough, the amount
shall cover the estimated costs for operation and maintenance in perpetuity, as
determined by the borough; and
      (2)   The amount shall then be converted to present worth of the annual
series values.
   (B)   If a BMP is proposed that also serves as a recreation facility (e.g.,
ball field, lake), the borough may adjust the amount due accordingly.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 153.125 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person in the borough shall allow or cause to allow stormwater
discharges into the borough’s separate storm sewer system which are not
composed entirely of stormwater except as provided in division (B) below or as
allowed under a state or federal permit.
   (B)   Discharges that may be allowed based on the borough finding that the
discharge(s) do not significantly contribute pollution to surface waters of the
commonwealth are listed below:
      (1)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
      (2)   Potable water sources including dechlorinated water line and fire
hydrant flushings;
      (3)   Irrigation drainage;
      (4)   Routine external building washdown which does not use detergents or
other compounds;
      (5)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (6)   Water from individual residential car washing;
      (7)   Springs;
      (8)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (9)   Uncontaminated water from foundation or footing drains;
      (10)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (11)   Lawn watering;
      (12)   Pavement washwaters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used;
      (13)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; and
      (14)   Uncontaminated groundwater.
   (C)   In the event that the borough determines that any of the discharges
identified in division (B) above significantly contribute to pollution of
waters of the commonwealth or is so notified by DEP, the borough will notify
the responsible person to cease the discharge.
   (D)   Upon notice provided by the borough under division (B) above, the
discharger will have a reasonable time, as determined by the borough, to cease
the discharge consistent with the degree of pollution caused by the discharge.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall affect a discharger’s responsibilities
under state law.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.126 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   The following connections are prohibited, except as provided in §
153.125(B):
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater and
wash water to enter the separate storm sewer system and any connections to the
storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks; and
   (B)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans,
maps or equivalent records and approved by the borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.127 ROOF DRAINS.
   (A)   Roof drains shall not be connected to streets, sanitary or storm
sewers or roadside ditches, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   When it is more advantageous to connect directly to streets or storm
sewers, connections of roof drains to streets or roadside ditches may be
permitted by the borough.
   (C)   Roof drains shall discharge to infiltration areas or vegetative BMPs
to the maximum extent practicable.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.128 ALTERATION OF BMPs.
   (A)   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape or alter any existing
stormwater BMP without the written approval of the borough unless it is part of
an approved maintenance program.
   (B)   No person shall place any structure, fill, landscaping or vegetation
into a stormwater BMP or within a drainage easement, which would limit or alter
the functioning of the BMP, without the written approval of the borough.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
RIGHT OF ENTRY, NOTIFICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.140 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and with the consent of the
land owner, duly authorized representatives of the municipality may enter at
reasonable times upon any property within the borough to inspect the
implementation, condition or operation and maintenance of the stormwater BMPs
or to investigate or ascertain the condition of the subject property in regard
to any aspect regulated by this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that the landowner refuses admission to the property,
duly authorized representatives of the borough may seek an administrative
search warrant issued by a magisterial district judge to gain access to the
property.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.141 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Whenever the borough finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the borough may order compliance
by written notice to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against whom
the municipality intends to take action;
      (2)   The location of the property in violation;
      (3)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (4)   The elimination of prohibited connections or discharges;
      (5)   Cessation of any violating discharges, practices or operations;
      (6)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (7)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
      (8)   The implementation of stormwater BMPs; and
      (9)   Operation and maintenance of stormwater BMPs.
   (B)   Such notification shall set forth the nature of the violation(s) and
establish a time limit for correction of the violation(s). Said notice may
further advise that should the violator fail to take the required action within
the established deadline, the work will be done by the borough or designee and
the expense thereof, together with all related lien and enforcement fees,
charges and expenses, shall be charged to the violator.
   (C)   Failure to comply within the time specified shall also subject such
person to the penalty provisions of this chapter. All such penalties shall be
deemed cumulative and shall not prevent the borough from pursuing any and all
other remedies available in law or equity.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.142 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby deemed a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Each day that an offense continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.143 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND APPROVALS.
   (A)   Any building, land development or other permit or approval issued by
the borough may be suspended or revoked by the borough for:
      (1)   Noncompliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
permit;
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter; and
      (3)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
construction or development which constitutes or creates a hazard or nuisance,
pollution or which endangers the life or property of others.
   (B)   A suspended permit or approval shall be reinstated by the borough
when:
      (1)   The borough or designee has inspected and approved the corrections
to the stormwater BMPs or the elimination of the hazard or nuisance;
      (2)   The borough is satisfied that the violation of the chapter, law or
rule and regulation has been corrected; and
      (3)   Payment of all borough fees, costs and expenses related to or
arising from the violation has been made.
   (C)   A permit or approval which has been revoked by the borough cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new permit under the procedures
outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.144 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action of the borough or its designee relevant
to the provisions of this chapter may appeal using the appeal procedures
established in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before
a magisterial district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of
summary offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, 234 Pa.
Code §§ 100 et seq., shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000
plus costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the borough in the
enforcement proceeding and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a violation of this
chapter continues or each section of this chapter which shall be found to have
been violated shall constitute a separate offense. No judgment shall commence
or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by the magisterial district judge. If the defendant neither pays nor
timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to a
separate violation, unless the magisterial district judge, determining that
there has been a violation, further determines that there was a good faith
basis for the person, partnership or corporation violating this chapter to have
believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed
to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of
the determination of a violation by the magisterial district judge and
thereafter each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   The court of common pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of
the violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Magisterial district judges shall have initial jurisdiction in
proceedings brought under this section.
   (E)   In addition, the borough, through its Solicitor, may institute
injunctive, mandamus or any other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in
equity for the enforcement of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent
injunctions, mandamus or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX A-1: MAP OF BUSHKILL CREEK WATERSHED
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1459.png]
(Ord. 226-2 007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX A-2: MUNICIPAL MAP OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS
   A copy of this appendix can be found in the borough offices.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX B-1: MAP OF STORM DRAINAGE PROBLEM AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1461.png]
(Ord. 226- 2007, pass ed 5-7- 2007)
APPENDIX B-2: DESCRIPTION OF STORM DRAINAGE PROBLEM AREAS
   A copy of this appendix can be found in the borough offices.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX C-1: NRCS TYPE II 24-HOUR RAINFALL DISTRIBUTION (GRAPHIC AND TABULAR)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1463.png]
 
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX C-2: INTENSITY-DURATION FREQUENCY CURVES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1465.png]
 
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX C-3: RUNOFF CURVE NUMBERS AND PERCENT IMPERVIOUSNESS VALUES
Runoff Curve Numbers and Percent Imperviousness Values*
Cover Description                              Curve Numbers for Hydrologic
                                               Soil Group**
Land Use/Cover Type Average Percent Impervious A B C D
                    Area
Runoff Curve Numbers and Percent Imperviousness Values*
                                                                                        Curve
                                                                                        Numbers for
Cover Description                                                                       Hydrologic
                                                                                        Soil
                                                                                        Group**
                                                                             Average
Land Use/Cover Type                                                          Percent    A  B  C  D
                                                                             Impervious
                                                                             Area
                                                                                        Refer to
                                                                                        Table 2-2b
                                                                                        in source
Agriculture:                                                                           document
                                                                                        (TR 55) by
                                                                                        crop type
                                                                                        and
                                                                                        treatment
Impervious areas:
   Paved parking lots, roofs, driveways and the like (excluding right-of-           98 98 98 98
way)
Open space (lawns, parks, golf courses, cemeteries and the like):
   Good condition (grass cover greater than 75%)                                    39 61 74 80
Residential districts by average lot size:
   1/8 acre or less (townhouses)                                          65         77 85 90 92
   1/4 acre                                                               38         61 75 83 87
   1/3 acre                                                               30         57 72 81 86
   1/2 acre                                                               25         54 70 80 85
   1 acre                                                                 20         51 68 79 84
   2 acres                                                                12         46 65 77 82
Streets and roads:
   Gravel (including right-of-way)                                                  76 85 89 91
   Paved; open ditches (including right- of-way)                                    83 89 92 93
   Paved; curbs and storm sewers (excluding right-of-way)                           98 98 98 98
Urban districts:
   Commercial and business                                                85         89 92 94 95
   Industrial                                                             72         81 88 91 93
Woods                                                                                  30 55 70 77
                                                                             
*   Source: Natural Resources Conservation Service Technical Release No. 55, Second Edition, June
1986
**   Hydrologic Soil Groups based on the county soil survey, latest edition
 
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX C-4: RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS FOR THE RATIONAL METHOD
Runoff Coefficients for the Rational Method*
Hydrologic Soil Group and Slope Range**
Land Use A               B               C               D
         0—2 2—6 6%+ 0—2 2—6 6%+ 0—2 2—6 6%+ 0—2 2—6 6%+
Runoff Coefficients for the Rational Method*
Hydrologic Soil Group and Slope Range**
Land Use                             A                B                C                D
                                     0—2 2—6 6%+  0—2 2—6 6%+  0—2 2—6 6%+  0—2 2—6 6%+
                                     a0.18 0.23  0.28 0.24  0.29  0.33 0.30  0.34  0.38 0.33  0.37  0.41
CultivatedA                          b0.2  0.29  0.34 0.30  0.36  0.40 0.36  0.41  0.45 0.39  0.44  0.48
                                     3
Forest, woods                        0.03  0.05  0.08 0.11  0.16  0.20 0.20  0.25  0.29 0.25  0.30  0.34
                                     0.04  0.08  0.12 0.15  0.21  0.26 0.25  0.31  0.36 0.31  0.37  0.41
Gravel                               0.24  0.29  0.33 0.32  0.36  0.40 0.35  0.39  0.43 0.37  0.41  0.44
                                     0.30  0.36  0.40 0.38  0.43  0.47 0.42  0.46  0.50 0.44  0.48  0.51
Meadow, lawnC                        0.05  0.08  0.12 0.15  0.20  0.24 0.23  0.28  0.32 0.28  0.32  0.36
                                     0.07  0.12  0.17 0.19  0.25  0.30 0.28  0.34  0.39 0.33  0.39  0.43
Parking, other impervious            0.85  0.86  0.87 0.85  0.86  0.87 0.85  0.86  0.87 0.85  0.86  0.87
                                     0.95  0.96  0.97 0.95  0.96  0.97 0.95  0.96  0.97 0.95  0.96  0.97
PastureB                             0.09  0.13  0.17 0.19  0.24  0.29 0.27  0.31  0.36 0.31  0.35  0.39
                                     0.12  0.17  0.23 0.24  0.30  0.36 0.33  0.38  0.43 0.37  0.42  0.46
                                     Runoff coefficients should be calculated based upon weighted
Residential, commercial, industrial  average of impervious area coefficients and pervious area
and other “developed”            coefficients from above based upon soil type, slope and the
                                     particular development proposal
*   Coefficients for all land uses except parking and other impervious cover are based on the Rossmiller
Equation for translating NRCS curve number into Rational Method ‘c’ values. The source for the parking
and other impervious cover coefficients is RAWLS. W.J., S.L. WONG and R.H. McCUEN, 198. Comparison of
urban flood frequency procedures. Preliminary draft report prepared for the Soil Conservation Service,
Beltsville. MD.
**   Hydrologic soil group based on the county soil survey latest edition
a   Runoff coefficients for storm recurrence intervals less than 25 years
b   Runoff coefficients for storm recurrence intervals of 25 years or more
A   Represents average of cultivated land with and without conservation treatment from TR-55, January
1975. These values are consistent with several categories of cultivated lands from TR-55, June 1986
B   Represents grasslands in fair condition with 50% to 75% grass cover
C   Represents grasslands in good condition with greater than 75% grass cover
 
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX C-5: MANNING “n” VALUES
Manning “n” Values by Typical Reach Description
Reach Description Manning “n”
Manning “n” Values by Typical Reach Description
Reach Description                                              Manning “n”
Concrete pipe, culvert or channel                              0.012
Corrugated metal pipe                                          0.012—0.027*
Natural stream, sluggish with deep pools and weeds             0.070
Natural stream or swale, very weedy or with timber under brush 0.100
Natural stream, clean, straight, no rifts or pools             0.030
Natural stream, winding, pools, shoals, stony with some weeds  0.050
Natural stream, clean, winding, some pools and shoals          0.040
*Depending upon type and diameter
Roughness Coefficients (Manning “n”) for Sheet Flow
Surface Description Manning “n”1
Roughness Coefficients (Manning “n”) for Sheet Flow
Surface Description                                Manning “n”1
Cultivated soils
   Residue cover 20%                            0.060
   Residue cover > 20%                          0.170
Fallow (no residue)                                0.050
Grass
   Bermuda grass                                0.410
   Dense grasses2                               0.240
   Short grass prairie                          0.150
Range (natural)                                    0.1.10
Smooth surfaces (concrete, asphalt, gravel or bare 0.011
soil)
Woods3
   Dense underbrush                             0.800
   Light underbrush                             0.400
1   The n values are a composite of information compiled by Engman (1986)
2    Includes species such as weeping lovegrass, blucgrass, buffalo grass,
blue grama grass and native grass mixtures(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
3   When selecting “n”, consider cover to a height of about 0.1 ft. this is
the only part of the plant cover that will obstruct sheet flow
 
APPENDIX D: RECOMMENDATION CHART FOR INFILTRATION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BMPs IN
CARBONATE BEDROCK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1467.png]
*   Source: Developed by Cahill Associates based on information in “Technical Best
Management Practice Manual and Infiltration Feasibility Report”, November 2002 and
input from the LVPC, 2003
**   Special geologic feature buffer widths are as follows:
      Low buffer is less than 50 feet
      Medium buffer is 50 feet to 100 feet
      High buffer is greater than 100 feet
***   Rates greater than 500% not recommended
**** Assumes adequately permeable soils and lack of natural constraints as
required for all infiltration systems.
1   Infiltration systems may be allowed at the determination of the engineer and/
or geologist, provided that a detailed site investigation is undertaken which
confirms nature of rock, location of special geologic features, and adequacy of
the buffer between the SGF and the proposed stormwater system(s)
2   In these special geologic features: low buffer situations, infiltration
systems may be allowed at the determination of the engineer and/or geologist,
provided that a detailed site investigation is undertaken and a 25-foot buffer
from SGFs is maintained
 
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX E: STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this ___________ day of _________
2007, by and between ____________________, (hereinafter the “landowner”), and
the Borough of Tatamy, Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania, (hereinafter
“municipality”);
   WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, the landowner is the owner of certain real properly as recorded by
deed in the land records of ____________________, Northampton County,
Pennsylvania, Deed Book ______ at Page _____, (hereinafter “Property”).
   WHEREAS, the landowner is proceeding to build and develop the property; and
   WHEREAS, the stormwater management BMP operations and maintenance plan
approved by the municipality (hereinafter referred to as the “plan”) for the
property identified herein, which is attached hereto as Appendix A and made
part hereof, as approved by the municipality, provides for management of
stormwater within the confines of the property through the use of best
management practices (BMPs); and
   WHEREAS, the municipality, and the landowner, his successors and assigns,
agree that the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the municipality
and the protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-site
stormwater best management practices be constructed and maintained on the
property; and
   WHEREAS, for the purposes of this agreement, the following definitions shall
apply:
• BMP - Best management practice; activities, facilities, designs, measures or
procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from land development, to protect
and maintain water quality and groundwater recharge and to otherwise meet the
purposes of the municipal stormwater management ordinance, including but not
limited to infiltration trenches, seepage pits, filter strips, bioretention,
wet ponds, permeable paving, rain gardens, grassed swales, forested buffers,
sand filters and detention basins.
• Infiltration Trench - A BMP surface structure designed, constructed, and
maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration or recharge of stormwater
into the soil and/or groundwater aquifer.
• Seepage Pit - An underground BMP structure designed, constructed, and
maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration or recharge of stormwater
into the soil and/or groundwater aquifer.
• Rain Garden - A BMP overlain with appropriate mulch and suitable vegetation
designed, constructed, and maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration
or recharge of stormwater into the soil and/or underground aquifer, and
   WHEREAS, the municipality requires, through the implementation of the plan,
that stormwater management BMPs as required by said plan and the municipal
stormwater management ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and
maintained by the landowner, his successors and assigns, and
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows.
   1.   The BMPs shall be constructed by the landowner in accordance with the
plans and specifications identified in the plan.
   2.   The landowner shall operate and maintain the BMP(s) as shown on the
plan in good working order acceptable to the municipality and in accordance
with the specific maintenance requirements noted on the plan.
   3.   The landowner hereby grants permission to the municipality, its
authorized agents and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable
times and upon presentation of proper identification, to inspect the BMP(s)
whenever it deems necessary. Whenever possible, the municipality shall notify
the landowner prior to entering the property.
   4.   In the event the landowner fails to operate and maintain the BMP(s) as
shown on the plan in good working order acceptable to the municipality, the
municipality or its representatives may enter upon the property and take
whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said BMP(s). This provision
shall not be construed to allow the municipality to erect any permanent
structure on the land of the landowner. It is expressly understood and agreed
that the municipality is under no obligation to maintain or repair said
facilities, and in no event shall this agreement be construed to impose any
such obligation on the municipality.
   5.   In the event the municipality, pursuant to this agreement, performs
work of any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor,
use of equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the landowner shall
reimburse the municipality for all expenses (direct and indirect) incurred
within ten days of receipt of invoice from the municipality and if not timely
paid, a municipal lien shall be placed upon the premises for 110% of the
invoice amount, plus statutorily allowed fees, expenses and costs.
   6.   The intent and purpose of this agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the onsite BMP(s) by the landowner; provided, however, that this
agreement shall not be deemed to create or effect any additional liability of
any party for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater runoff.
   7.   The landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns, and other
successors in interests, hereby release and hold harmless the municipality’s
employees and designated representatives from all damages, accidents,
casualties, occurrences or claims which might arise or be asserted against said
employees and representatives from the construction, presence, existence or
maintenance of the BMP(s) by the landowner or municipality. In the event that a
claim is asserted against the municipality, its designated representatives or
employees, the municipality shall promptly notify the landowner and the
landowner shall defend, at his own expense, any suit based on the claim. If any
judgment or claims against the municipality’s employees or designated
representatives shall be allowed, the landowner shall pay all costs and
expenses regarding said judgment or claim.
   8.   The municipality shall inspect the BMP(s) as necessary to ensure their
continued functioning.
   This Agreement shall be recorded at the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Northampton County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant running with
the property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on the landowner,
his administrators, executors, assigns, heirs and any other successors in
interests, in perpetuity.
ATTEST:                                 BOROUGH OF TATAMY
By _________________________                  By _________________________
   Secretary/Treasurer                           President
                                       For the landowner:
                                       By _________________________
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA   )
                        )SS
COUNTY OF NORTHAMPTON )
   I, ____________________, a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the ___________ day of __________
20_____, do hereby certify that ______whose name(s) is/are signed to the
foregoing Agreement bearing date of the ___________ day of __________ 20_____,
has acknowledged the same before me in my said county and state.
   GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS ___________ day of __________ 20_____.
_________________________                   _________________________
   NOTARY PUBLIC                           (SEAL)
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX F: LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES ALTERNATE APPROACH FOR MANAGING
STORMWATER RUNOFF
Natural hydrologic conditions may be altered radically by poorly planned
development practices, such as introducing unneeded impervious surfaces,
destroying existing drainage swales, constructing unnecessary storm sewers, and
changing local topography. A traditional drainage approach of development has
been to remove runoff from a site as quickly as possible and capture it in a
detention basin. This approach may. lead ultimately to the degradation of water
quality as well as expenditure of additional resources for detaining and
managing concentrated runoff at some downstream location.
The recommended alternative approach is to promote practices that will minimize
post-development runoff rates and volumes, which will minimize needs for
artificial conveyance and storage facilities. To simulate pre-development
hydrologic conditions, forced infiltration is often necessary to offset the
loss of infiltration by creation of impervious surfaces. The ability of the
ground to infiltrate depends upon the soil types and its conditions.
Preserving natural hydrologic conditions requires careful alternative site
design considerations. Site design practices include preserving natural
drainage features, minimizing impervious surface area, reducing the hydraulic
connectivity of impervious surfaces, and protecting natural depression storage.
A well-designed site will contain a mix of all those features. The following
describes various techniques to achieve the alternative approach:
   •   Preserving Natural Drainage Features. Protecting natural drainage
features, particularly vegetated drainage swales and channels, is desirable
because of the ability to infiltrate and attenuate flows and to filter
pollutants. However, this objective is often not accomplished in land
development, in fact, commonly held drainage philosophy encourages just the
opposite pattern – streets and adjacent storm sewers typically are located in
the natural headwater valleys and swales, thereby replacing natural drainage
functions with a completely impervious system. As a result, runoff and
pollutants generated from impervious surfaces flow directly into storm sewers
with no opportunity for attenuation, infiltration, or filtration. Developments
designed to fit site topography also minimizes the amount of grading on site.
   •   Protecting Natural Depression Storage Areas. Depression storage areas
have no surface outlet, or drain very slowly following a storm event. They can
be commonly seen as ponded areas in farm fields during the wet season or after
large runoff events. Traditional development practices eliminate these
depressions by filling or draining, thereby obliterating their ability to
reduce surface runoff volumes and trap pollutants. The volume and release-rate
characteristics of depressions should be protected in the design of the
development site. The depressions can be protected by simply avoiding the
depression or by incorporating its storage as additional capacity in required
detention facilities.
   •   Avoiding Introduction of Impervious Areas. Careful site planning should
consider reducing impervious coverage to the maximum extent possible. Building
footprints, sidewalks, driveways and other features producing impervious
surfaces should be evaluated to minimize impacts on runoff.
   •   Reducing the Hydraulic Connectivity of Impervious Surfaces. Impervious
surfaces are significantly less of a problem if they are not directly connected
to an impervious conveyance system (such as storm sewer). Two basic ways to
reduce hydraulic connectivity are routing of roof runoff over lawns and
reducing the use of storm sewers. Site grading should promote increasing travel
time of stormwater runoff, and should help reduce concentration of runoff to a
single point in the development.
   •   Routing Roof Runoff Over Lawns. Roof runoff can be easily routed over
lawns in most site designs. The practice discourages direct connections of
downspouts to storm sewers or parking lots. The practice also discourages
sloping driveways and parking lots to the street. By routing roof drains and
crowning the driveway to run off to the lawn, the lawn is essentially used as a
filter strip.
   •   Reducing the Use of Storm Sewers. By reducing use of storm sewers for
draining streets, parking lots, and back yards, the potential for accelerating
runoff from the development can be greatly reduced. The practice requires
greater use of swales and may not be practical for some development sites,
especially if there are concerns for areas that do not drain in a “reasonable”
time. The practice requires educating local citizens and public works
officials, who expect runoff to disappear shortly after a rainfall event.
   •   Reducing Street Widths. Street widths can be reduced by either
eliminating on-street parking or by reducing roadway widths. Municipal planners
and traffic designers should encourage narrower neighborhood streets which
ultimately could lower maintenance.
   •   Limiting Sidewalks to One Side of the Street. A sidewalk on one side of
the street may suffice in low-traffic neighborhoods. The lost sidewalk could be
replaced with bicycle/recreational trails that follow back-of-lot lines. Where
appropriate, backyard trails should be constructed using pervious materials.
   •   Using Permeable Paving Materials. These materials include permeable
interlocking concrete paving blocks or porous bituminous concrete. Such
materials should be considered as alternatives to conventional pavement
surfaces, especially for low use surfaces such as driveways, overflow parking-
lots, and emergency access roads.
   •   Reducing Building Setbacks. Reducing building setbacks reduces driveway
and entry walks and is most readily accomplished along low-traffic streets
where traffic noise is not a problem.
   •   Constructing Cluster Developments. Cluster developments can also reduce
the amount of impervious area for a given number of lots. The biggest savings
is in street length, which also will reduce costs of the development. Cluster
development clusters the construction activity onto less-sensitive areas
without substantially affecting the gross density of development.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
APPENDIX G: PRELIMINARY SITE INVESTIGATION AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS
   Required Data and Site Information: The following data shall be gathered
utilizing standard testing procedures as part of a preliminary site
investigation:
   •   Bedrock composition - Any apparent boundaries between carbonate and non-
carbonate bedrock must be verified by a qualified geotechnical professional.
   •   Bedrock structural geology - This includes the possible presence of
faults and mapping of conspicuous fracture traces or lineaments.
   •   Overburden and soil mantle composition and thickness.
   •   Permeability of the soil.
   •   Depth to the seasonal high water table.
   •   Presence of special geologic features - This includes sinkholes, closed
depressions, fracture traces, lineaments, joints, faults, caves, pinacles and
geologic contacts between carbonate and non-carbonate bedrock.
   Preliminary Site Investigation Required for Sites Intending to Use
Infiltration
   Review of Available Data, Maps and Reports: Some of the required
information, as listed above, can be found in existing published data.
Suggested resources include the following:
   •   Geologic maps and references for the development area.
   •   The Little Lehigh Creek Basin Carbonate Prototype Area Closed Depression
Map - available at the LVPC.
   •   USGS topographic maps.
   •   Lehigh and Northampton County soil survey maps aerial photographs from
the LVPC or other sources.
   •   Relevant Pennsylvania Geologic Survey Open File Reports that provide
maps of sinkholes and Karst features for Lehigh County (OF 87-01) and
Northampton County (OF 87-02).
   •   Kochanov and Reese (2003). Density of Mapped Karst Feature in South-
Central and Southeastern Pennsylvania (Map 68).
   •   DCNR Online Sinkhole Inventory -
      (http://www.dcnr.state.pa.us/topogeo/hazards/sinkhole/default.asp)
   Field Inspections: In addition to gathering data from published sources, a
field inspection of the proposed site is required, A field inspection can
provide additional information relating to site features such as carbonate
bedrock features, indicators of seasonal high stream-level or water table
levels, streams, springs and the like.
   Soil Test Pit and Percolation Test Requirements: A minimum of one test pit
and a minimum of two percolation tests are required for every site. A test pit
is a two to three foot wide, eight foot deep trench excavated with a backhoe
for observing subsurface conditions. The test pits will be used to describe
soil depth and quality, including soil horizons, and testing of permeability or
percolation rates and can be conducted by a certified Sewage Enforcement
Officer.
Percolation tests are to be conducted as follows (adapted from 25 Pa. Code §
73.15 “Percolation Tests”).
   1.   The percolation tests shall be made in separate holes uniformly spaced
over the possible infiltration area.
   2.   An “initial presoak” should not be performed.
   3.   Percolation holes located within the possible infiltration area shall
be used in the calculation of the average percolation rate.
   4.   Holes having a uniform diameter of six to ten-inches shall be bored or
dug as follows:
      a.   To the depth of the bottom of the possible infiltration BMP.
      b.   Alternate depths if the test pits/auger holes indicate that the
soils are more suitable at a different depth (i.e., if a clay horizon is
identified and more suitable soils are located beneath the horizon, and
infiltration test should be performed in the suitable horizon).
   5.   The bottom and sides of the hole shall be scarified with a knife blade
or sharppointed instrument to completely remove any smeared soil surfaces and
to provide a natural soil interface into which water may percolate. Loose
material shall be removed from the hole. Two inches of coarse sand or fine
gravel shall be placed in the bottom of the hole to protect the soil from
scouring and clogging of the pores.
   6.   Immediately before the percolation test, as a final presoak, water
shall be placed in the hole to a minimum depth of six-inches over the gravel
and readjusted every 30 minutes for one hour.
   7.   The drop in the water level during the last 30 minutes of the final
presoaking period shall be applied to the following standard to determine the
time interval between readings for each percolation hole:
      a.   If water remains in the hole, the interval for readings during the
percolation test shall be 30 minutes.
      b.   If no water remains in the hole, the interval for readings during
the percolation test may be reduced to ten minutes.
   8.   After the final presoaking period, water in the hole shall again be
adjusted to approximately six-inches over the gravel and readjusted when
necessary after each reading.
      a.   Measurement to the water level in the individual percolation holes
shall be made from a fixed reference point and shall continue at the interval
determined from step No. 7 (above) for each individual percolation hole until a
minimum of eight readings are completed or until a stabilized rate of drop is
obtained, whichever occurs first. A stabilized rate of drop means a difference
of one-fourth-inch or less of drop between the highest and lowest readings of
four consecutive readings.
      b.   The drop that occurs in the final period in percolation test holes,
expressed as inches per hour, shall be used to calculate the average
percolation rate.
      c.   When the rate of drop in a percolation test is too slow to obtain a
measurable rate, the rate at 0.25 inches per hour shall be assigned to that
hole for use in calculating the average percolation rate. The infiltration area
may be placed over holes with no measurable rate when the average percolation
rate for the possible infiltration area is within the acceptable range.
When a percolation test hole yields a percolation rate of greater than 12-
inches per hour, the proposed infiltration area may not be designed or
installed within 25-feet of this hole unless the municipality determines that a
testing anomaly caused the fast percolation rate and a retest of the area
yields acceptable percolation rates. This percolation rate limit is established
to protect groundwater quality and to minimize the risk of subsidence.
   Additional Site Investigation and Testing Required If Infiltration Is
Proposed
   Soil Test Pit Requirements: The required number of test pits varies with
effective soil thickness. As risk factors increase, the number of test pits
increases. A minimum of two test pits, uniformly spaced within the proposed
infiltration area (e.g. the two pits should be centered on each half of the
proposed infiltration area), are required for any site proposing infiltration
unless the applicant can demonstrate that one test pit is adequately
representative .of the area proposed for infiltration. For larger infiltration
areas, multiple test pits shall be developed at the densities as listed below:
 
Effective Soil  Test Pit Density (Per Percolation Tests     Auger Grid Spacing
Thickness (Ft.) Acre of Proposed      (Per Acre of Proposed (Feet On-Center)***
                Infiltration Area)*   Infiltration Area)**
8               4                     8                     50
4 to 8          6                     12                    35
2 to 4          8                     16                    25
*   No. of test pits required = Infiltration sq. ft./43,560 sq. ft. x test pit
density from chart rounded up to the nearest whole number
**   No. of percolation tests required = Infiltration sq. ft./43,560 sq. ft. x
percolation tests from chart rounded up to the nearest whole number
***   Auger testing is only required on carbonate sites
 
   Soil Auger Testing Requirements for Carbonate Areas: Because soil depth is
not uniform in many carbonate areas, test pits will not be sufficient to
accurately determine the depth to bedrock. Augering provides this essential
data as inexpensively as possible. Track-rig rotary soil auger test drilling
allows relatively inexpensive, qualitative determination of the presence of
overburden voids and will generally penetrate to the top-of-bedrock. Augers
typically extend to depths of 20 feet. Special augers extend to as much as 50
feet. Augers do not extend into the bedrock. Auger testing should be performed
in a grid pattern across the proposed infiltration area, spaced as indicated in
the above table.
   Percolation Testing Requirements: For each proposed infiltration area, a
minimum of six percolation tests shall be conducted with a vertical component
permeability test unless the applicant can demonstrate that fewer tests
accurately represent the percolation rate of the proposed infiltration area.
Additional testing shall be required if the initial test results show
significant variability in the vertical component percolation rate. For larger
infiltration areas, percolation tests shall be conducted at the densities
listed in the table above.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
   Soil Auger Testing Requirements for Carbonate Areas: Because soil depth is
not uniform in many carbonate areas, test pits will not be sufficient to
accurately determine the depth to bedrock. Augering provides this essential
data as inexpensively as possible. Track-rig rotary soil auger test drilling
allows relatively inexpensive, qualitative determination of the presence of
overburden voids and will generally penetrate to the top-of-bedrock. Augers
typically extend to depths of 20 feet. Special augers extend to as much as 50
feet. Augers do not extend into the bedrock. Auger testing should be performed
in a grid pattern across the proposed infiltration area, spaced as indicated in
the above table.
   Percolation Testing Requirements: For each proposed infiltration area, a
minimum of six percolation tests shall be conducted with a vertical component
permeability test unless the applicant can demonstrate that fewer tests
accurately represent the percolation rate of the proposed infiltration area.
Additional testing shall be required if the initial test results show
significant variability in the vertical component percolation rate. For larger
infiltration areas, percolation tests shall be conducted at the densities
listed in the table above.
(Ord. 226-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Applicability
   
154.005   Exemptions
   
154.006   Interpretation
   
154.007   Modifications and exceptions
   
154.008   Fees
   
154.009   Alternate plans and resubdivisions
   
154.010   Borough records
   
154.011   Amendments
   
154.012   Appeals to court
   
154.013   Enforcement
   
154.014   Liability
   
154.015   Municipalities Planning Code amendments
   
154.016   Land development requirements
Definitions
   
154.030   General interpretation
   
154.031   Definitions
Overview of General Procedures
   
154.045   Purpose
   
154.046   General procedure for subdivisions and land developments
   
154.047   General plan submission procedures
Sketch Plan
   
154.060   Pre-plan consultation
   
154.061   Sketch plan submission requirements
   
154.062   Sketch plan review procedures
Preliminary Plan
   
154.075   Purpose
   
154.076   Submission and review procedure
   
154.077   Preliminary plan requirements
   
154.078   Certification
Final Plan
   
154.090   Applicability
   
154.091   Submission and review procedure
   
154.092   Final plan requirements
   
154.093   Certification
Minor Subdivisions and Lot Line Adjustments
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Submission and review procedure
   
154.107   Minor subdivision final plan requirements
   
154.108   Lot line adjustments, annexations and minor revisions of approved
plans
   
154.109   Recording plans
Improvements Guarantees
   
154.120   Guarantee of improvements installation required
   
154.121   Improvements to be provided by the applicant
   
154.122   Development agreement
   
154.123   Performance guarantee
   
154.124   Approval of improvements
   
154.125   Remedies to effect completion of improvements
   
154.126   Maintenance agreement
   
154.127   Maintenance guarantee
Recording of Final Plan
   
154.140   Recording of final plan
   
154.141   Record plan
   
154.142   Effect of recording
Design Standards and Required Improvements
   
154.155   Applicability
   
154.156   Required improvements
   
154.157   Overall requirements
   
154.158   Streets
   
154.159   Blocks
   
154.160   Lots
   
154.161   Open space and recreation areas and fees
   
154.162   Stormwater management
   
154.163   Sanitary sewage disposal systems
   
154.164   Water supply systems and fire hydrants
   
154.165   Waste dumpsters, miscellaneous utilities and easements
   
154.166   Access drives and driveways
   
154.167   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.168   Sidewalks, pathways and driveway aprons
   
154.169   Street lighting
   
154.170   Street names
   
154.171   Regulatory signs
   
154.172   Landscaping and street trees
   
154.173   Monuments and lot pins
   
154.174   Curbs
Mobile Home Park Design Standards and Required Improvements
   
154.185   Applicability
   
154.186   General requirements
   
154.187   Contents, submission and review of plans
   
154.188   General standards and requirements
   
154.189   Design standards
Grading Plans for Individual Lots
   
154.200   Grading plans for individual lots
Sinkhole/Carbonate Regulations
   
154.215   Purpose
   
154.216   Governance
   
154.217   Exemptions
   
154.218   Definitions
   
154.219   Specific carbonate ordinance regulations
   
154.220   Carbonate ordinance assessment report
   
154.221   Review process
   
154.222   Limitations
Licensed Cable Operators
   
154.235   Extending lines to new subdivisions and/or land developments
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   Appendix A: Application form
   Appendix B: Plan preparer and owner’s statement and approval blocks
   Appendix C: Offer/acceptance of dedication
   Appendix D: Improvements agreement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   A chapter providing for the regulation and control of the subdivision of
lots and the development of land; the approval of plans, plots or replots of
land laid out in building lots; standards for the design of streets, lots,
easements, blocks and other improvements; certain minimum improvements and
construction standards on all streets and required dedications; the
administration of this chapter by the Borough Planning Commission and the
Borough Council; and penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Tatamy Borough
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to create conditions favorable to the
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens by: assisting in the
orderly and efficient integration of subdivisions; ensuring conformance of
subdivision plans with the public improvements plans of the borough; ensuring
sites suitable for building purposes and human habitation; facilitating the
efficient movement of traffic and avoiding traffic hazards and congestion;
securing equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform
procedures and standards; improving land records by establishing standards for
surveys and plans; safeguarding the interests of the public, the homeowner, the
subdivider and all municipalities; preserving natural and historic features;
and carrying out the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No subdivision or land development of any lot, tract or parcel of land
shall be made, and no street, sanitary sewer, water main or other improvement
required in connection with a proposed subdivision or land development shall be
laid out, constructed, opened or dedicated for use by the public or the
occupants of the proposed subdivision or land development, except in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   A lot or parcel that was not a legal lot of record prior to adoption
of this chapter shall not be created, sold or transferred, and no land
development shall occur upon a lot unless and until:
      (1)   The subdivision of the lot and/or approval of the land development,
as applicable, has been granted final plan approval and recorded; and
      (2)   Either of the following occurs:
         (a)   The borough has been assured by means of a development agreement
and guarantees acceptable to the Borough Council that the required improvements
will subsequently be installed; or
         (b)   The required improvements in connection therewith have been
entirely completed.
   (C)   No subdivision or land development shall be submitted to the borough
for review except by the landowner of such land or his or her specifically
authorized agent. (See definition of “landowner” in §
154.031.)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Agriculture. The subdivision by lease of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or
easement of access or residential dwelling shall be exempted from the
regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Revisions to borough regulations after approval of a development.
      (1)   From the time an application for approval of a plat, whether
preliminary or final, has been approved or approved subject to conditions, no
subsequent change or amendment in the zoning, subdivision or other governing
ordinance or plan shall be applied to adversely affect the right of the
applicant to commence and to complete any aspect of the approved development in
accordance with the terms of such approval within five years from such
approval.
      (2)   If final plan approval is preceded by preliminary plan approval,
the five-year period shall be counted from the date of the preliminary plan
approval.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare.
      (2)   Where provisions, standards and specifications of this chapter
conflict with those of any state statute, other ordinance or regulations, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply, regardless of its source, unless
specified to the contrary.
   (B)   Illustrations. The illustrations in this chapter are for general
illustrative purposes, are not part of the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.007 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   An applicant seeking a modification or exception to this chapter
shall submit to the borough staff a request in writing that states:
         (a)   The specific subchapter, section(s) involved; and
         (b)   The reasons for the request.
      (2)   (a)   The staff shall provide the request to the Planning
Commission for a recommendation.
         (b)   After the Planning Commission has had an opportunity to review
the request at a meeting, Borough Council may by written resolution grant a
waiver or modifications to those specific requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant must prove that the waiver or modification will meet one
or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Avoid an undue hardship that was not self-created and that results
from the peculiar and uncommon conditions of the property;
      (2)   Avoid a clearly unreasonable requirement that would not serve any
valid public purpose;
      (3)   Allow an alternative standard that is clearly proven by the
applicant to provide equal or better results;
      (4)   Allow a layout or improvements that would clearly be more in the
public interest than what would occur if the modification were not granted; and
      (5)   Remove a requirement that is not applicable, especially because of
the small size of the proposed subdivision or land development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.008 FEES.
   (A)   The Borough Council has established by resolution a schedule of fees
and a collection procedure for all applications and other matters pertaining to
this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant is also required to pay any review fees required by the
Joint Planning Commission and the County Conservation District.
   (C)   Plans shall not be considered filed until all fees are paid and the
applications are properly signed as required.
   (D)   If the expenses of the borough for reviews of a subdivision or land
development exceed the total fees that have been paid or placed in escrow by an
applicant, such excess expenses shall be paid by the applicant prior to release
by the final plans by the borough for recording.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.009 ALTERNATE PLANS AND RESUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Multiple plans. Only one plan concerning any one area of land shall be
actively before the borough for review at any one moment in time, unless the
Planning Commission specifically permits simultaneous review of alternative
plans.
   (B)   Resubdivisions. A revision or resubdivision of a recorded plan or a
final plan approved by the Borough Council shall be considered as a new
subdivision and shall comply with all of the regulations of this chapter,
except: if the borough staff determine that a revision is only to correct
erroneous data or minor omissions or to revise engineering details or
supporting documentation on an approved plan, the plan may be submitted under
the simplified requirements and procedures of §
154.108.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.010 BOROUGH RECORDS.
   The borough shall maintain records of the findings, decisions and
recommendations of the Planning Commission and Borough Council concerning all
subdivision or land development plans and any modifications or exceptions.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.011 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this chapter may, from time to time, be
amended by the Borough Council, following the procedures of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended, including a
Borough Council public hearing (with public notice required the Municipalities
Planning Code).
   (B)   The borough staff shall submit each proposed amendment (other than an
amendment prepared by the Planning Commission) to the Commission for
recommendations at least 30 days prior to the date set for the public hearing
on such proposed amendment.
   (C)   The Borough Council shall submit any proposed amendment to the Joint
Planning Commission. The proposed action shall not be taken until the Joint
Planning Commission recommendation is made or until 45 days have passed from
such submission.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.012 APPEALS TO COURT.
   Decisions of the Borough Council may be appealed in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.013 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspectors. The Borough Council shall authorize one or more persons,
which may include the Borough Engineer and his or her representatives, to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and the accompanying design standards
and improvement specifications.
   (B)   Inspection. Any action under this chapter shall be subject to on-site
inspection by the borough or its authorized representatives to ensure that
there is compliance with this chapter, other borough ordinances and the
approved plans.
   (C)   Remedies. Any action inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a cease and desist order and other appropriate measures by
the Borough Council, or its authorized representatives.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.014 LIABILITY.
   Neither the approval nor the granting of any building permit, floodplain
permit, site plan review, subdivision or land development approval, zoning
permit, erosion review, stormwater runoff review, steep slope review or any
other review or permit of this chapter, involving any land governed by the
provisions of this chapter, by an official, employee or agency of the borough,
shall constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the
borough, or its employees, officials or agencies, of the practicality or safety
of any structure, use or subdivision, and shall create no liability upon, nor a
cause of action against such public body, official nor employee for any damage
that may result pursuant thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.015 MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter that only repeat, summarize or reference
provisions of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., shall
be deemed to be automatically superceded and replaced by any applicable
amendments to the Municipalities Planning Code at the date such amendments
become effective as state law.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.016 LAND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A “land development” shall be required to follow all of the same submission
requirements, review procedures and other requirements of this chapter as a
“major subdivision,” unless such land development only would involve the
development of only one principal nonresidential use and/or a maximum of three
dwelling units, in which case only a final plan submission and approval is
required and not a preliminary plan submission or approval.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.030 GENERAL INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, words and teams used herein shall be
interpreted as listed in §
154.031 of this chapter.
   (B)   If a word is not defined by this chapter, but is defined by the zoning
ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances), as amended, the zoning ordinance
definition shall apply.
   (C)   The word “includes” shall mean to specifically include an item but not
necessarily limited to such items.
   (D)   Any word or term not defined in this subchapter or the zoning
ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) shall have a meaning of standard usage
as determined by the Zoning Officer, within the context of the word’s use
within the applicable section of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A landowner or developer who has filed an application for a
subdivision or land development, including his or her heirs, successors and
assignees.
   BLOCK. A tract of land or a lot or group of lots, bounded by streets, public
parks, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses or bodies of water, boundary lines
of the borough or by any combination of the above.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. That distance of a block that abuts a single street.
   BOROUGH. Tatamy Borough, Northampton County, Pennsylvania. Unless otherwise
stated, this shall mean the Borough Council and its authorized agents.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Borough Council of Tatamy Borough.
   BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT. Has the same meaning as LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   CARTWAY. The paved portion of a street or highway designed for vehicular
traffic and paved areas intended for on-street parking.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Tatamy Borough.
   DAYS. Calendar days.
   DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   DEVELOPER (SUBDIVIDER). Any landowner, agent of such landowner or tenant
with permission from a landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision
of land or land development.
   DWELLING TYPES. See definitions in the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted
by reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, a
person, or group of persons, or another tract of land of a use of land for
specified purposes.
   ENGINEER, BOROUGH. The registered professional engineer designated by the
Borough Council to perform all duties required of the Engineer by the
provisions of this chapter.
   ENGINEER, PROFESSIONAL. A person licensed to practice as a professional
engineer in the commonwealth.
   FLAG LOT. A lot granted preliminary approval after the adoption of this
chapter that:
      (1)   Does not meet the minimum lot width of the zoning ordinance (as
adopted by reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) at the minimum
building setback line;
      (2)   Has its own lot frontage upon a public street; and
      (3)   Is approved by Borough Council as a modification to the
requirements of this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN. See the borough floodplain ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   GRADE. The elevation of ground or paving.
   IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement (in a form and manner acceptable to
borough) requiring a developer to install the improvements required by this
chapter and any improvements or amenities which appear on the plan in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   As defined by the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et
seq., as amended. As of 1991, this definition included the following: the
improvement of one or more contiguous lots, tracts or parcels of land for any
purpose involving either or both of the following:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; and/or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of, streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   In addition, LAND DEVELOPMENT shall specifically not include the
following:
         (a)   The construction of only one accessory agricultural building
that is not intended for the storage of animal wastes or the storage or feeding
of animals; and
         (b)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
an existing single-family semi-detached dwelling (twin) into only two dwelling
units.
   LANDOWNER. The owner of a legal or equitable interest in land, including the
holder of a formal option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option
or contract is subject to any condition), a leasee (if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the right of the landowner) or other person having
a proprietary interest in land.
   LOT. An area of land within defined lot lines that is a distinct and legally
recorded separate parcel of land according to the official records of the
County Recorder of Deeds, but not including a “perpart” or a “tract” of one
deed.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The revision of a lot line in such a way that no new
lot is created, no street is created, extended or changed in alignment, that no
additional nonconformities will be created under the borough zoning ordinance
(as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) and that no new land development will
occur other than a land development that was previously approved.
   LOT REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot that abuts a public street on one side of the
lot, but has vehicular access only from a public street on the opposite side of
the lot.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. An agreement in a form and manner acceptable to the
Borough Council requiring the developer of required improvements to make any
repairs or reconstructions and to maintain such improvements for a certain
period.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security which is acceptable to the borough
to secure the promise made by a developer in the maintenance agreement that
required improvements shall be maintained by the developer. (Note: these
guarantees typically include acceptable letters of credit, performance bonds,
escrow agreements and other similar collateral or surety agreements).
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. An area of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connection and other appurtenances necessary for the
placement thereon of a single mobile home, with the land leased or rented by
the park owner to the occupants of the mobile home placed on the lot.
   MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., Act 247 of 1968, as amended by Act 170 of 1988, and
as may be further amended, or its successor legislation.
   OPEN SPACE. The area of a lot unoccupied by principal or accessory
structures, streets, driveways, parking areas; but may include areas occupied
by walkways, picnic pavilions, play equipment and other areas occupied by
noncommercial outdoor recreation facilities.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. An area of land and/or water within a subdivision or
land development tract that is open space designed and intended for the common
recreational use of residents of a development or the general public, that is
permanently preserved as common open space and that does not include any part
of the setback areas required for individual dwellings or buildings or uses
under the zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) and that does not include areas that
are used for stormwater detention that do not have a clear recreation function.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Common open space owned by a government agency or the
borough for public recreation.
   ORDINANCE, THIS. The Tatamy Borough subdivision and land development
ordinance (as codified in this Chapter 154) and any provisions or amendments
thereof, enacted by the Borough Council.
   PARCEL. A tract, lot or area of land.
   PARKING. Outdoor areas or specially designed buildings or garages used for
the storage of vehicles. Unless otherwise stated, shall mean off-street
parking.
   PATHWAY. A pedestrian accessway which is not adjacent to a street or access
drive and conforms with this chapter.
   PennDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security which is acceptable to the Borough
Council to secure the promise made by a developer in the development agreement
that certain improvements shall be made by the developer. (Note: this typically
includes acceptable letters of credit, performance bonds, escrow agreements and
other similar collateral or surety agreements.)
   PLAN or PLAT. A map of a land development or subdivision of land.
      (1)   FINAL PLAN. A complete and exact plan, identified as such with the
title FINAL PLAN, including the plan prepared for official recording as
required by this chapter to define property rights and proposed streets and
other improvements.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A complete plan, identified as such with the
title PRELIMINARY PLAN, accurately showing proposed streets and lot layout and
such other information as required by this chapter.
      (3)   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan, identified as such with the title
SKETCH PLAN on the map, indicating the general layout of the proposed
subdivision or land development.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. See COMMISSION.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system designed to collect, treat and dispose of
sewage from users in compliance with regulations of Pennsylvania DEP and the
borough.
      (1)   CENTRAL SEWAGE SERVICE. Service by a sewage disposal system which
collects, treats and disposes sewage from more than one dwelling, principal use
or lot. PUBLIC SEWAGE SERVICE shall mean service by a municipality-owned sewage
system.
      (2)   ON-LOT SEWAGE SERVICE. Service by a sewage disposal system which
collects, treats and disposes of sewage or holds sewage from only one dwelling
unit, principal use or lot.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian accessway which is adjacent to a street or access
drive and conforms to the regulations of this chapter.
   SOIL CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Northampton County Conservation District.
   SOIL SURVEY. The latest version of the official Soil Survey of Northampton
County, published by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
   STATE. The government of the commonwealth and its relevant subparts.
   STREET. As, public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property or that is an expressway, but not including an
alley or a driveway.
   STREET CLASSIFICATION. See the official street classification map, which was
adopted as part of the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). This map classifies streets as:
expressway; arterial; collector; or local streets.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A type of street which is terminated at one end by a
permitted turn-around and which intersects another street at the other end.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A type of local street which is parallel and
adjacent to collector or arterial streets and provides access to abutting
properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. As defined by the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq., as amended. As of 1991, this definition was as follows:
      (1)   The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by any
means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; and
      (2)   The subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or residential dwellings is not a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision of land which does not qualify as a
minor subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Land, not involving a land development, which is either:
      (1)   A lot line adjustment; or
      (2)   A subdivision:
         (a)   Results in only one or two new residential lots, or one or two
clearly agricultural lots of more than ten acres each, in addition to the one
pre-existing “parent” lot;
         (b)   Which does not involve an extension or new segment of a street,
other than what was previously approved; and
         (c)   Which has not involved the subdivision approval of at least
three lots on the tract within the five previous years.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. The borough subdivision and land development
ordinance, as amended, and as codified in this
Chapter 154.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. In the judgment of the Borough Engineer at least
90% (based upon the cost of the required improvements for which financial
security was posted) of those improvements required as a condition for final
approval have been completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the
project will be able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended use.
   TRACT. One or more abutting or adjacent lots proposed to be subdivided or
developed following an overall coordinated plan.
   TRACT AREA, GROSS. The space contained within the exterior lot lines of a
tract proposed for a subdivision or land development, not including space
within the existing and future or ultimate right-of-way of existing streets,
but including right-of-way of any streets proposed to be constructed within the
tract.
   USGS. United States Geological Survey, or its successor agency.
   WALKWAY. A strip of land including a right-of-way dedicated to public use in
order to facilitate pedestrian access through or into a block.
   WATER, CENTRAL SYSTEM OR SERVICE. Service by a water system which transmit
water from a common source to more than one dwelling, principal use or lot.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial waterway, stream, river, creek,
ditch, channel, canal, conduit, gully or ravine in which water flows in a
definite direction or course, either continuously or intermittently, and which
has a definite channel and bed and shall include any area adjacent thereto
subject to inundation by reason of overflow of floodwaters.
   WATER, ON-LOT SYSTEM OR SERVICE. Service by a water system which transmits
water from a source on the lot to only one dwelling, principal use or lot.
   WATER, PUBLIC SYSTEM OR SERVICE. Central water service that is owned and/or
operated by a municipal authority or a Pennsylvania PUC regulated water company
and that serves more than 50 dwelling units or principal uses.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
OVERVIEW OF GENERAL PROCEDURES
§ 154.045 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides an overview of the general procedure for the
borough review of proposed subdivisions and land developments (§
154.046) and of the general procedures for submitting plans to the borough (§
154.047). This subchapter is intended to be instructional and exemplary only
and does not set forth mandatory requirements which are binding on the borough
or an applicant. See the actual provisions of the other subchapters of this
chapter. Two flowcharts are included at the end of this subchapter to show the
general subdivision process for major and minor subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.046 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Review and approval stages.
      (1)   Three types of plan submission are included in the procedure for
filing and approval of subdivision and land development plans: sketch;
preliminary; and final.
      (2)   The table below outlines the stages for the different types of
proposed subdivision or land development.
               Type of Proposed Subdivision or Land Development*
Stage Chapter  Land Development Major Subdivision Minor Subdivision or Lot Line
      Sections                                    Adjustment
                            Type of Proposed Subdivision or Land
                            Development*
                 Chapter                     Major       Minor Subdivision
Stage            Sections   Land Development Subdivision or Lot Line
                                                         Adjustment
Sketch plan      154.060— Recommende d     Recommended Recommende d
                 154.062
Preliminary plan 154.075— Required***      Required    Not required
                 154.078
Final plan       154.090— Required         Required    Required**
                 154.093
Guarantee of     154.120—
improvements     154.127    Required         Required    Required
installation
Recording of     154.140— Required         Required    Required
final plan       154.142
*   See definitions in §
154.031
**   See §§
154.105 through
154.109 for minor subdivision final plan filing and review requirements;
see §
154.109 for submission requirements for a boundary line adjustment
***   A land development that only involves a single principal
nonresidential use and/or up to three dwelling units shall only be
required to submit a final plan and not a preliminary plan
 
   (B)   Sketch plan. While a sketch plan is not required, it is strongly
recommended that it be filed to allow the applicant to consult early and
informally with the Planning Commission before preparing a preliminary plan.
This will often avoid expensive redesign and delay to the applicant.
   (C)   Preliminary plan. Preliminary plans are required to be submitted for
any major subdivision and for certain land developments, as described above.
   (D)   Final plan. After approval of the preliminary plan of a major
subdivision or most land developments, the applicant files a final plan. A
final plan shall be officially recorded by the county prior to the sale of any
lots within a subdivision or the construction of any building.
   (E)   Guarantee of improvements installation. Where improvements are
required by this chapter, in the most cases, the borough will require the
applicant to enter into a development agreement and to post financial security
acceptable to the borough in an amount sufficient to cover the costs of any
improvements which may be required. See §§
154.120 through
154.127.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.047 GENERAL PLAN SUBMISSION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission. Sketch, preliminary and final plans are required to be
submitted to the borough staff by delivery by person.
   (B)   Receipt by Commission. The Planning Commission shall have the
authority to recommend rejection by the Borough Council or to table an
application that the Commission determines is significantly incomplete.
   (C)   Attendance. The applicant or his or her duly authorized representative
should endeavor to attend the Commission meeting to discuss the filed plans.
The Commission may request such attendance. If the applicant fails to appear
when so requested at a meeting where the plans will be considered, it may
result in plan disapproval, if the borough determines that it resulted in
insufficient information to render a decision.
   (D)   Action by the Commission and the Borough Council. Within 90 days
following the date of the regular meeting of the Commission, but not including
a workshop meeting, next following the date the application is properly filed,
the Commission shall make a recommendation to the Borough Council, and the
Borough Council shall act to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
plan, unless an extension is granted by the applicant.
   [Flow Chart ]
   Generalized Process for a Major Subdivision or Land Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1472.png]
 
   Generalized Process for a Minor Subdivision or Land Development
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1474.png]
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992 )
SKETCH PLAN
§ 154.060 PRE-PLAN CONSULTATION.
   Prior to submission of a sketch plan, applicants for larger developments are
encouraged to informally discuss their intent with the Zoning Officer and/or
other appropriate borough staff.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.061 SKETCH PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plan, applicants are
very strongly encouraged to submit a sketch plan.
      (2)   A sketch plan review often allows an applicant to save substantial
time and engineering costs, because many concerns about layout and issues
concerning borough ordinances can be resolved prior to detailed engineering,
thereby reducing the need for future redesign at a more detailed stage.
   (B)   When submitted, sketch plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   Submission requirement. If submitted, ten print copies of the
sketch plan and the accompanying application shall be submitted to the borough
staff at least 21 calendar days prior to a regular Borough Planning Commission
meeting in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, except that a
sketch plan for a minor subdivision or a lot line adjustment shall be submitted
at least ten calendar days prior to such meeting.
      (2)   Drawing requirements. The sketch plan shall be drafted to scale and
is recommended to include the following as applicable:
         (a)   Property boundaries;
         (b)   Significant topographic and physical features (such as quarries,
waterways and steep slopes);
         (c)   Proposed lot and street layout with approximate areas of lots;
         (d)   Site data including:
            1.   Acres of entire tract;
            2.   Number of lots and types of dwelling units (if residential);
and
            3.   Zoning district and major applicable lot area and setback
requirements.
         (e)   Approximate north point and scale and preliminary name of
project (may be owner’s name);
         (f)   Approximate proposed locations of any nonresidential buildings
(if known) and proposed types of any nonresidential uses;
         (g)   A location map showing the general location of the project in
relation to nearby streets (may be a photocopy of a USGS, borough base map or
commercial map, with the site highlighted);
         (h)   Approximate location of any area within the 100-year floodplain
(from Federal Insurance Administration map);
         (i)   Tentative approximate locations of any stormwater detention
basins and any major stormwater drainage channels;
         (j)   For residential developments, whether the applicant proposes to
dedicate common open space or fees-in-lieu of land, if required;
         (k)   Note stating general methods of providing water and sewer
service, including sufficient information to show general feasibility of any
proposed non-public central sewer service;
         (l)   Names of any adjacent nonresidential uses, and any zoning
district boundaries in the area;
         (m)   Name and address of person responsible for the preparation of
the plan and the date of preparation; and
         (n)   Approximate general locations of possible wetlands (may be
“hydric soil” locations from the county soil survey).
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.062 SKETCH PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   No official action shall be taken on a sketch plan.
      (2)   The borough shall not be bound by comments made or not made as part
of a sketch plan review.
   (B)   The borough shall distribute copies of the sketch plan to the Borough
Engineer, the relevant borough staff person and the Planning Commission for
reviews.
   (C)   The sketch plan should be reviewed by the Planning Commission, Borough
Engineer and Borough Council, with any comments reported to the applicant or
his or her representative.
   (D)   Joint Planning Commission review: if a subdivision or land development
would be expected to have regional impact, one copy of the sketch plan should
be submitted to the Joint Planning Commission for an informal review.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 154.075 PURPOSE.
   A preliminary plan is intended to establish the overall development scheme
to minimize the need for any revisions of final plans.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.076 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary plan submission required.
      (1)   A preliminary plan submission for a major subdivision or land
development meeting all of the requirements of this subchapter shall be filed
by the applicant and reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Only a final plan and not a preliminary plan is required for a land
development of only one principal nonresidential use and/or a maximum of three
dwelling units.
      (2)   A preliminary plan submission is not required for:
         (a)   A minor subdivision;
         (b)   A submission that only involves a lot line adjustment (see §§
154.105 through
154.109); and
         (c)   A land development of only one principal nonresidential use and/
or a maximum of three dwelling units.
   (B)   Required submission.
      (1)   Applicant’s duties. The applicant shall file with the staff at
least 21 calendar days prior to a regular Planning Commission meeting (not
including a workshop meeting):
         (a)   The required fees; and
         (b)   The required submission materials required under §
154.077.
      (2)   Staff’s duties. The staff shall retain an least one set of all
materials in the borough files and shall forward plans to the following
agencies to seek their comments prior to preliminary plan approval:
         (a)   Sewer authority or Sewage Enforcement Officer (if applicable);
         (b)   Borough Fire Chief (layout and utility plan if deemed
appropriate by the borough staff or Planning Commission);
         (c)   Borough Engineer, with the plans provided prior to the next
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting; and
         (d)   The Borough Planning Commission (including seven copies of the
application form, at least one copy of the preliminary plan checklist, several
copies of the preliminary plan and at least one copy of the supporting
documents), with such information provided at or prior to the first regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting after a proper submission.
      (3)   Applicant’s distribution. The applicant is fully responsible for
the following:
         (a)   Contacting the appropriate utility companies, as appropriate,
including the water supplier;
         (b)   Applying for a PennDOT highway occupancy permit if one is
required for vehicle access; granting of any such needed permit shall be a
condition of any preliminary approval under this chapter;
         (c)   Determining whether any permits or approvals are needed from any
agency outside of the borough, including DEP (including any obstruction to a
waterway or any stream crossing) and the Army Corps of Engineers (including
determining whether any “wetland” will be disturbed);
         (d)   Providing a copy of the sedimentation and erosion control plans
to the County Conservation District, together with their required review fees,
if any earth disturbance is proposed;
         (e)   If any portion of a major subdivision or land development:
            1.   Would occur within 200 feet of the boundary of another
municipality; or
            2.   Would clearly have a regional impact upon a municipality, as
determined by the Planning Commission, then the applicant shall provide a copy
of the layout plan to the Secretary/Treasurer of that municipality for an
advisory review.
         (f)   Providing a copy of the plans to the Joint Planning Commission,
with the JPC’s required review fees.
      (4)   Preliminary plan and supporting documentation.
         (a)   Each preliminary plan and supporting documentation:
            1.   Shall provide the information required by §§
154.077 and
154.078; and
            2.   Should seek to incorporate recommendations made by the
Planning Commission, Borough Council and the Borough Engineer during the sketch
plan review.
         (b)   All sheets should be folded to approximately 9 inches by 12
inches size so that the title of the sheet faces out.
      (5)   Colored layout plan. It is recommended that the applicant provide
at least one copy of the layout plan that is lightly colored in such a way that
it will allow clearer understanding by the general public at public meetings.
   (C)   Determination of completeness of the submission.
      (1)   Based upon the initial review of the borough staff and/or the
Borough Engineer, the Commission shall have authority, at its first regularly
scheduled meeting after the submission is filed in a timely fashion, to
determine that a submission is significantly incomplete and therefore to refuse
to review the submission further and to do one of the following:
         (a)   Not accept the submission, indicating the deficiencies, and
return the fee (minus the costs of any borough review) to the applicant;
         (b)   Accept the submission as being filed for review on the condition
that the applicant shall file such additional required materials and
information to the staff or appropriate agency or person within a certain
number of days from the date of such acceptance;
         (c)   Postpone the acceptance of the submission until the next
Planning Commission meeting after the applicant has met all of the submittal
requirements and has filed such materials within the required time period prior
to the meeting. The 90-day time limit for action shall not begin until the plan
is accepted as complete; or
         (d)   Recommend that the plan be rejected by the Borough Council for
just cause.
      (2)   If the Commission determines that the submission is significantly
complete, as filed and as required, the Commission shall accept the plans and
may begin its review.
      (3)   Zoning variances: an application under this chapter shall not be
considered to be complete if one or more zoning variances will be required for
the subdivision or land development to legally occur as submitted, until such
time as the needed zoning variances have been granted.
   (D)   Review by Borough Engineer.
      (1)   Within 45 days from the date the plans are duly submitted for
review (unless granted an extension by the Commission or unless the plans are
significantly incomplete), the Borough Engineer should review the engineering
considerations of the preliminary plan and prepare an initial report on such
considerations to the Commission.
      (2)   The Borough Engineer may make additional reports and
recommendations to the Commission and the Borough Council during review of the
plan. Matters that should be dealt with directly by the Planning Commission
and/or the Borough Council should be listed separately from technical
engineering considerations.
      (3)   The applicant and/or his or her plan preparer shall make reasonable
efforts to resolve technical engineering considerations outside of and prior to
Planning Commission meetings. The Borough Engineer may require the applicant or
his or her plan preparer to meet for this purpose.
      (4)   A copy of any findings of the Borough Engineer should be sent or
handed in person to the applicant or his or her representative.
   (E)   Review by Commission. The Planning Commission shall accomplish the
following within the time limitations of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., (unless the applicant grants a written time extension),
while allowing a sufficient number of days within this deadline for a decision
by the Borough Council:
      (1)   Review all applicable reports received from any official reviewing
agencies;
      (2)   Determine whether the preliminary plan submission meets the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable ordinances;
      (3)   Review the preliminary plan submission with the applicant or his or
her representative (if present) and recommend any needed revisions so that the
submission will comply with this chapter or that would generally improve the
plan; and
      (4)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
preliminary plan submission in a written letter to the Borough Council that
specifies any recommended conditions for approval, identifies defects found in
the application and/or describes requirements which have not been met. If the
plan is recommended for disapproval, the letter shall cite the provisions of
the chapter relied upon.
   (F)   Review by Borough Council. Based upon the report of the Planning
Commission and any reports received from official reviewing agencies, the
Borough Council shall:
      (1)   Determine whether the preliminary plan submission meets the
requirements of this chapter and other ordinances; and
      (2)   Approve or reject the preliminary plan submission within the time
required by the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. As of
1991, this law requires:
         (a)   The Borough Council to act not later than 90 days following the
date of the first regular meeting of the Commission held after it has been
properly filed for review; but in no case shall the Borough Council’s decision
be made later than 120 days following the date the submission was accepted as
being filed for review, unless the applicant grants a written extension of
time; and
         (b)   No subdivision or land development shall be granted final
approval until a report is received from the Joint Planning Commission or until
the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded to the
Joint Planning Commission.
   (G)   Decision by Borough Council.
      (1)   The decision of the Borough Council shall be in writing. The
decision shall be communicated to the applicant or his or her representative
personally or by mail at his or her last known address not later than 15 days
following the decision.
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary plan submission shall constitute
conditional approval of the subdivision or land development as to the character
and intensity, but shall not constitute approval of the final plan or authorize
the sale of portions of the development or construction of buildings.
      (3)   If the preliminary plan submission is disapproved, the decision
shall specify defects found in the submission and describe requirements which
have not been met, citing the provisions of the statute or ordinance relied
upon in each case.
   (H)   Final plan submission deadline. An applicant shall file a final plan
within five years from the date of the approval of the preliminary plan by the
Borough Council, unless an extension in writing has been granted by the Borough
Council. Failure to comply with this requirement shall render the preliminary
plan null and void, and a new preliminary plan shall be submitted.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.077 PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Information and materials.
      (1)   All of the following information and materials listed in this
section are required as part of all preliminary plans for:
         (a)   A land development of more than one principal nonresidential use
or of more than three dwelling units; and
         (b)   For any major subdivision.
      (2)   This list of requirements shall serve both to:
         (a)   Establish the requirements; and
         (b)   As a checklist for the applicant and the borough to ensure
completeness of submissions.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of this section as
part of the application.
   (B)   Required information. The required information listed in this section
may be combined or separated onto different sheets, provided that the plans
will be clearly readable.
   (C)   Preliminary plan for major subdivision or land development checklist.
Tatamy Borough
Preliminary Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development**
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Tatamy Borough
Preliminary Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development**
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name:                                                          
Applicant’s Address:                                                      
Applicant’s Phone No.:                                                    
Applicant’s Signature:                                  Date:            
*Insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not applicable. Insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a
waiver is requested from the requirement
Submitted Not         
          Submitted*
                   A.   General submission items. Note–the borough may require the applicant to file
                     additional copies
             1.   Borough application/review fee(s)/escrow
             2.   Two copies of the completed application (see Appendix A)
             3.   Two copies of the preliminary plan checklist (using the photocopies of the pages
                     in this section)
             4.   Ten print copies of the complete preliminary plans
             5.   Two print copies of only the layout plans
             6.   Three sets of supportive documents
             7.   A copy of a receipt from the JPC showing that the plan and review fees have been
                     provided to them for their review
                        8.   A copy of a receipt from the County Conservation District showing that the
          sedimentation and erosion control plan and review fees have been provided to them for
                     their review if applicable
                   B.   Drafting requirements. All information shall be legibly and accurately presented
             1.   Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x 36
               in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.)
             2.   Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or other scale pre-approved by the
                     Borough Engineer or borough staff
             3.   All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in degrees,
                     minutes and seconds
             4.   Differentiation between existing and proposed features
             5.   Boundary line of the tract, shown as a heavy line
                        6.   If layout plans involve two or more sheets, a map of the layout of the entire
          project at an appropriate scale on one sheet, and a key map showing how the sheets
                     connect
                        7.   If the tract(s) crosses a municipal boundary, a map showing both the portions in
          the borough and the other municipality, in sufficient detail for the borough to
                     determine how the parts will interrelate
             8.   Required profiles shown at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet horizontal and 1
                     inch equals 5 feet vertical, or other scale pre- approved by the Borough Engineer
             9.   All sheets numbered and listed on one page
             10.   Words “preliminary plan” and sheet title (such as “layout plan”) on each sheet
                   C.   General information.
             1.   Name of project on each sheet
             2.   Name of landowner and developer, with addresses
             3.   Names of adjacent property owners, including those across adjacent streets and
                     alleys
                        4.   Approximate locations of lot lines, buildings, common open spaces, detention
          basins or drainage channels existing or approved. within 100 feet of the boundaries of
                     the proposed project
             5.   Notarized owners statement (see
                     Appendix C)
             6.   Surveyor and plan preparer’s statement (see
                     Appendix C)
                        7.   Approval/review signature blocks for: Borough Council; Borough Planning
          Commission; and Joint Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix C)
                        8.   Location map at a standard scale (preferably 1 inch equals 2,000 feet or 1 inch
          equals 800 feet) showing the location of the project in relation to the following
                     features within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of the tract: existing and proposed
                     streets; waterways; zoning district boundaries; and municipal boundaries
             9.   North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
             10.   Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially noting if is
                     revision of a previously approved plan) with space for future revision dates
             11.   Deed book volume and page number from county records
             12.   Tax map number and block and lot for the tract being subdivided
                   D.   Natural features.
             1.   Existing contour lines shown at the same scale as the layout plan as follows:
                           a.   Shall be based on a field survey or photogrametric procedure that was
                   completed at a scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet or larger; contours shall be based upon
                     USGS datum
                           b.   The contour interval shall be sufficient to determine compliance with borough
                   ordinances; an interval of 2 feet for slopes of less than 15% and 5 feet for slopes of
                     15% or greater is generally recommended
                           c.   Note–contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10 acres
                   or more that are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of this proposed
                     subdivision or land development
             2.   Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25%, and greater than 25% (by method such
                     as shading)
             3.   Areas with hydric soils (see county soil survey), with a notation that there are
                     none if that is the case
                        4.   Watercourses (with any name), natural springs, lakes and wetlands; detailed
                     delineations of wetlands are not required if there is clearly no alteration proposed of
          any areas that could be reasonably suspected of being wetlands; note: any wetlands shall
                     be delineated by a qualified professional prior to preliminary plan approval, however
                     the applicant is not required to have received all required federal and state permits
                     prior to preliminary plan approval
             5.   Rock outcrops, stone fields and sinkholes
             6.   Location of any areas within the 100-year floodplain (with differentiation
                     between floodway and floodfringe if available from official federal floodplain maps)
                        7.   Locations and names of all soil types, with identification according to the
          county soil survey or more detailed professional study of those that are alluvial, have
                     a depth to bedrock of less than 3 feet or a seasonally high water table of less than 3
                     feet
                   E.   Human-made features.
             1.   Existing and proposed lot lines
                           a.   The boundaries of lots (other than a residual lot of at least 10 acres) shall
                   be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an error not to exceed 1 in 10,000
                     and balanced
                         b.   The boundaries of any residual tract which is greater than 10 acres may be
                     determined by deed
             2.   Location of existing monuments
                        3.   Sufficient bearings, lengths of lines, radii, arc lengths, street widths, right-
          of-way and easement widths of all lots, streets, rights-of-way, easements and community
                     or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and every course on the
                     ground
             4.   Buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that would be adversely impacted by
                     the project, with name and description
                        5.   Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive covenants and easements
          for purposes which might affect development, and stating which easements and rights-of-
                     way proposed for dedication to the borough
             6.   Existing building locations and land uses
             7.   Overhead electrical high-voltage lines and rights-of- way/easements
             8.   Any other significant human-made features
                   F.   Zoning requirements.
             1.   Applicable zoning district and required minimum lot area
             2.   Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
             3.   Area and location of any proposed common open space
             4.   If any common open space proposed: method of ownership and entity proposed to be
                     responsible for maintenance
             5.   If any common open space proposed: description of intended purposes; proposed
                     improvements (such as rough grading); and any proposed recreation facilities
             6.   Statement of type of water and sewer service proposed (such as “municipal water
                     and municipal sewer”)
             7.   Linear feet of proposed streets
             8.   Required and proposed building coverage and impervious coverage (may be stated
                     as “typical proposed” for single- family detached or twin homes)
                   G.   Proposed layout.
             1.   Total acreage of site; total proposed number of lots and dwelling units
             2.   Identification number for each lot
             3.   Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot and
                     dimensions of each lot in feet
             4.   Existing rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing streets,
                     including existing streets within 100 feet of boundaries of tract
                        5.   Proposed rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing and proposed
          streets, including streets proposed as part of other projects within 100 feet of the
                     boundaries of tract
             6.   Street centerline information, with horizontal curve data, bearings, distances
                     and stations corresponding to the profile
             7.   Right-of-way and curb lines with horizontal curve radii at intersections
             8.   Beginning and end of proposed street construction
             9.   Street improvements proposed by the applicant, including any acceleration/
                     deceleration lanes, traffic signal, street realignment or construction improvement
             10.   Any proposed curbing (place NA in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed)
             11.   Any proposed sidewalks (place NA in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed),
                     with any proposed handicapped ramps at intersections
             12.   Any proposed bicycle paths (place NA in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed)
             13.   Names of existing streets and initial proposed names of new streets (or
                     identification as “Street A” and the like)
             14.   Designation of streets proposed to be dedicated to the borough or to remain
                     private.
                   H.   Utility plan
             1.   As applicable, the following existing and proposed items for each lot, using the
                     following symbols (or other pre-approved by the borough staff):
                     [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                   1478.png]   Well (if not connected to central water system)-with required separation
                     distance shown from septic drain fields, and with dimensions from lot lines
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1480.png]   Primary drain field (with dimensions from lot lines)
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1482.png]   Secondary drain field
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1486.png]   Soil probe location
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1484.png]   Percolation test location
                      2.   If on-lot sewage disposal systems are proposed:
                a.   Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
                b.   Location of existing and proposed wells within 100 feet of the boundaries of
                     the project
                c.   Proposed or typical location of dwelling/building
                d.   Locations of soils with a seasonally high water table averaging less than 3
                     feet (see county soil survey)
                      3.   If a central sewage system is proposed:
                a.   Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
                b.   Location and size of lines and laterals, with locations corresponding to
                     stations on the profile
                c.   Locations of manholes, with invert elevation of flow line and grade at top of
                     each manhole
                d.   Proposed lot lines and any proposed easements or rights-of-way needed for the
                     utilities
                e.   Location of all other drainage facilities and public utilities in the
                     vicinity of sanitary sewer lines
                f.   Distance noted that sanitary sewer connections that will be needed to reach
                     existing lines (if not already abutting the tract)
                g.   Manhole numbers assigned by the borough municipal authority
                h.   Separation distances from water lines and locations of concrete encasements
                      4.   If central water service is proposed:
                a.   Location and size of existing and proposed waterlines
                b.   Existing and proposed fire hydrant locations
                c.   Distance noted that water lines will have to be extended to reach existing
                     lines (if not already abutting the tract)
             5.   Any existing and proposed underground natural gas, electrical, telephone, cable
                     TV or other utility lines, with any easements shown that will affect development
             6.   List of contacts for underground utilities in the area, with phone numbers
                     stated on the grading plans (as required by Act 172, 73 P.S. § 176)
                   I.   Grading and stormwater management plan.
             1.   Existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures, including
                     approximate size of detention basins and locations of swales and drainage pipes
             2.   Pre-development and post-development watershed areas for each detention basin or
                     major drainage channel
             3.   Locations of any proposed or existing stormwater easements
             4.   Intended design year standards for culverts, bridge structures and/or other
                     stormwater facilities
             5.   Schematic location of all underground utilities
             6.   Note stating entity responsible to perpetually maintain/own any detention basin
             7.   Existing contour lines (see description under “Natural Features”) and proposed
                     contour lines as on grading plan
                   J.   For uses other than single-family detached or twin dwellings.
                        1.   For townhouses or apartments, evidence that the project meets the density
          requirements of the zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances)
                        2.   Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking requirements of the
          zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances)
             3.   Building identification numbers (if more than one building per lot)
             4.   Arrangement of off-street parking spaces, parking aisles, paved areas and off-
                     street loading areas
             5.   For townhouses, any proposed methods to ensure privacy between outdoor semi-
                     private areas (such as fences between rear yards)
             6.   Illustrative sketches of proposed buildings (encouraged but not required)
             7.   Number, sign area, height and location of proposed signs
             8.   Proposed building locations and land uses (if known)
             9.   Major types and locations of outdoor lighting
             10.   Location of any proposed outdoor storage areas
             11.   Square feet of paved area, including gravel areas
                   K.   Landscape plan.
             1.   Locations of treelines and existing forested areas
                        2.   Locations of individual mature trees of greater than 6 inches trunk diameter
          measured at a height of 3 feet above the surrounding average ground level, other than
                     trees within forested areas and treelines
                        3.   Any proposed evergreen screening, buffer yards or earthen berming (if required
          by zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances))
             4.   Areas of existing mature woods that are proposed to be protected and preserved
                     or removed
                        5.   General types, sizes and locations of any required street trees (see §
          154.172), paved area landscaping (see borough zoning ordinance, as adopted by reference
                     in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) and any other major proposed landscaping
                        6.   Any proposed fencing (including height and type) and/or landscaping around
          stormwater basins (see §
                     154.162)
                   L.   Erosion and sedimentation plan. (if earth disturbance will be involved)
             1.   Drawings showing locations and types of proposed measures, complying with the
                     regulations and standards of the County Conservation District and DEP
             2.   Narrative describing proposed soil erosion and sedimentation control methods
             3.   Construction sequence
             4.   Details of sedimentation and erosion control facilities
                   M.   Road profiles.
             1.   Profile of existing and proposed ground surface along centerline of street
             2.   Proposed centerline grade with percent on tangents and elevations at 50 feet
                     intervals
                        3.   All vertical curve data including length, elevations and minimum sight distance
          as required by §§
                     154.155 through
                     154.174
             4.   Proposed utilities
                   N.   Water main, sanitary sewer and storm drain profiles.
             1.   Profile of proposed ground surface with elevations at top of manholes or inlets
             2.   Profile of water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer lines, with stationing
             3.   All line crossings of other utilities
                   O.   Supporting documents and additional information.
                        1.   Residual lands sketch: if the submitted plans do not include all undeveloped or
                     underdeveloped adjacent or abutting lands owned by the same landowner or under control
                     of the same developer (or closely related corporations), then a sketch shall be
          submitted at an appropriate scale, on one sheet, covering all such land holdings
                     together with a sketch of a reasonable future street system to demonstrate that the
                     proposed subdivision provides for the orderly development of any residual lands and/or
                     does not adversely affect the potential development of residual lands
                        2.   If applicable, two copies of the DEP sewage planning module application as
          completed by the applicant, together with evidence that the application has been
                     forwarded by the applicant to the required review agencies. Approval of such planning
                     module shall be a condition of preliminary approval under this chapter
                        3.   If central water service is proposed by an existing water company or authority,
                     the applicant shall provide a letter from such water company or authority which states
          that the company or authority expects to be able to adequately serve the development,
                     that the proposed water system is generally acceptable and that references any
                     conditions or specifications required by the company or authority for the provision of
                     services
                        4.   If service is proposed by an existing sewage authority, the developer shall
                     submit a copy of a letter from the authority which states that the company or authority
          can adequately serve the subdivision, that the proposed sanitary sewage system is
                     generally acceptable and that references any conditions or specifications required by
                     the company or authority for the provision of services
                        5.   If service is proposed by a sewage disposal system other than one operated by an
                     existing sewage authority, the developer shall provide sufficient information to show
          that the proposed system would be reasonably feasible, within DEP regulations, and that
                     an acceptable system would be put into place for the operation and maintenance of the
                     system
             6.   If access is proposed to a state highway:
                           a.   A copy of any information submitted to PennDOT and any correspondence from
                   PennDOT regarding the proposed access to state roads (this requirement applies
                     throughout the entire approval process); and
                           b.   Evidence that the proposed access will meet PennDOT sight distance
                   requirements (to avoid the need for redesign of the development if the access on the
                     approved preliminary plan would not meet the sight distance requirements)
                         Granting of a required highway occupancy permit for vehicle access is required as
                     a condition of any preliminary approval under this chapter
                        7.   If the project would involve any activity within the 100- year floodplain or
          immediately adjacent to any creek, a written statement from the Zoning Officer
                     indicating that the proposed subdivision/land development would be in compliance with
                     the borough floodplain regulations
                        8.   A statement shall describe the general nature of the landowner’s and the
          developer’s involvement in the proposed development, and the names of the primary
                     partners or chief officers of any corporate developer
             9.   Notation stating method of ensuring maintenance of any private street
             10.   List of any modifications or waivers requested to this chapter (see §
                     154.007)
             11.   Copies of the decisions of any zoning variances that are relevant to the
                     proposal
             12.   For industrial operations or industrial storage: a written description of any
                     proposed operations or storage operations in sufficient detail to indicate:
                         a.   Any noise, glare, smoke and fumes nuisances;
                           b.   To allow a general determination of possible fire or other hazards from the
                   use of highly toxic or hazardous substances or other public health or safety hazards;
                     and
                         c.   To estimate the amount, direction and times of tractor-trailer truck traffic
                     that is expected
             13.   If to be served by on-lot septic service, a copy of septic percolation test and
                     soil probe results
                        14.   Stormwater management calculations–relating to facilities appearing on the
          grading and storm drainage plan and the erosion and sedimentation plan, for review by
                     the Borough Engineer (see §
                     154.008)
                     P.   Additional information. The Planning Commission or Borough Council may require the
                   submission of such reasonable additional information that is necessary to determine
                     compliance with specific provisions of borough ordinances
                   Q.   Carbonate/sinkhole regulation requirements.
                      1.   Four copies of the carbonate ordinance assessment report
                        2.   A plan indicating the existing and proposed private and public sewage disposal
                   systems and the location of existing private and public water supplies on adjoining
                     properties
                        3.   Type, location and phasing of proposed disturbances and construction, as well
                   as, proposed future ownership and maintenance of the property and the proposed
                     improvements
                      4.   Plans describing the design of the proposed stormwater management facilities
                     proposed for the project.
**   Land developments involving only a single nonresidential principal use or a maximum of three dwelling
units are only required to submit a final plan (see §§
154.090 through
154.093)
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992; Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.078 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All certification shall comply with the state professional licensing
laws.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land shall be certified and stamped by a
registered land surveyor, as required by state law.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
FINAL PLAN
§ 154.090 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter lists the requirements for final plans for a major
subdivision or any land development. See the requirements of §§
154.105 through
154.109 for a project that only involves a minor subdivision or only a boundary
line adjustment.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.091 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Final plan submission required.
      (1)   A final plan submission for each major subdivision or land
development must be filed by the applicant and reviewed following the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   A final plan for a minor subdivision shall be filed by the
applicant and reviewed following the provisions of §§
154.105 through
154.109.
   (B)   Final plan submission deadline.
      (1)   An applicant shall file a final plan submission within five years
from the date of the approval of the preliminary plan by the Borough Council,
unless an extension in writing has been granted by the Borough Council.
      (2)   Failure to comply with this requirement shall render the
preliminary plan submission null and void, and a new preliminary plan
submission must be filed.
   (C)   Required submission.
      (1)   Applicant’s duties. The applicant shall file to the borough staff
at least 21 calendar days prior to a regular Planning Commission meeting (not
including workshop meetings) all of the required plans, information and fees
listed in §
154.092.
      (2)   Staff’s duties. The borough staff shall forward plans to the
following agencies and to seek their comments prior to final plan approval
(where applicable):
         (a)   Municipal authority or Sewage Enforcement Officer (if
applicable);
         (b)   Borough Engineer, provided prior to the next regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting;
         (c)   Borough Fire Chief (layout and utility plan, if deemed
appropriate by the borough staff);
         (d)   Maintain at least one official “file” copy of all materials
submitted by the applicant; and
         (e)   The Borough Planning Commission, at or before the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Commission, including the following:
            1.   Copies of the application form;
            2.   One copy of the preliminary plan checklist;
            3.   Copies of the preliminary plan; and
            4.   Copies of the supportive documents.
      (3)   Applicant’s distribution. It is the applicant’s responsibility to:
         (a)   Make agreements with the appropriate utility companies;
         (b)   Ensure that any required PennDOT highway occupancy permit needed
for vehicle access has been granted;
         (c)   Provide information to DEP or other agencies for any permits
that might be required;
         (d)   Ensure that the soil erosion and sedimentation plan has been
found acceptable by the County Conservation District if earth disturbance is
proposed; and
         (e)   Provide a copy of the plan to the Joint Planning Commission for
review, together with their required review fees, if required by the JPC.
      (4)   Filing of final plan. The filing of the final plan shall conform
with the approved preliminary plan, including any official conditions.
      (5)   Folding of sheets. All sheets should be folded so that the title of
the sheet faces out.
   (D)   Determination of completeness by Commission.
      (1)   Based upon the initial review of the borough staff and/or the
Borough Engineer, the Commission shall have authority, at its first regularly
scheduled meeting after the submission is filed in a timely fashion, to
determine that a submission is significantly incomplete and therefore to refuse
to review the submission further and to do one of the following:
         (a)   Not accept the submission, indicating the deficiencies, and
return the fee (minus the costs of any borough review) to the applicant;
         (b)   Accept the submission as being filed for review on the condition
that the applicant shall file such additional required materials and
information to the staff or appropriate agency or person within a certain
number of days from the date of such acceptance;
         (c)   Table the acceptance of the submission until the next Planning
Commission meeting where the applicant has met all of the submittal
requirements, and has filed such materials within the required 15 days prior to
the meeting. The 90-day time limit for action shall not begin until such
acceptance; or
         (d)   Recommend that the plan be rejected by the Borough Council for
just cause.
      (2)   If the Commission determines that the submission is significantly
complete, as filed and as required, the Commission shall accept the plans and
may begin its review.
      (3)   If the Commission determines that the final plan submission, as
filed, departs substantially from the approved preliminary plan, the Commission
may classify the submission as a revised preliminary plan (with the applicable
review fees required) and process the application as such.
   (E)   Review by Borough Engineer.
      (1)   Within 45 days from the date the plans are duly submitted for
review (unless the plans are significantly incomplete), the Borough Engineer
should review the engineering considerations of the preliminary plan and
prepare an initial report on such considerations to the Commission.
      (2)   The Borough Engineer may make additional reports and
recommendations to the Commission and the Borough Council during review of the
plan. Matters that should be dealt with directly by the Planning Commission
and/or the Borough Council should be listed separately from technical
engineering considerations.
      (3)   The applicant and/or his or her plan preparer shall make reasonable
efforts to resolve technical engineering considerations outside of and prior to
Planning Commission meetings. The Borough Engineer may require the applicant or
his or her plan preparer to meet with the Borough Engineer for this purpose.
      (4)   A copy of findings of the Borough Engineer should be sent or handed
in person to the applicant or the applicant’s representative.
   (F)   Review by Commission. The Planning Commission shall accomplish the
following within the time limitations of Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S.
§§ 10101 et seq., (unless the applicant grants a written time extension), while
allowing a sufficient number of days within this deadline for a decision by the
Borough Council:
      (1)   Review all applicable reports received from official review
agencies;
      (2)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the objectives
and requirements of this chapter, other ordinances and statutes;
      (3)   Review the final plan submission with the applicant, his or her
agent, or representative (if present) and recommend any needed revisions so
that the submission will conform to this chapter, other ordinances and
statutes; and
      (4)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
final plan submission in a written report to the Borough Council, specifying
any recommended conditions for approval. If the plan is recommended for
disapproval, the action shall identify defects in the plans and requirements
which have not been met, citing the provisions of the ordinance or statute
relied upon.
   (G)   Review by Borough Council. The Borough Council shall:
      (1)   Review the report of the Commission;
      (2)   Review any reports received from any official reviewing agencies;
      (3)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the objectives
and requirements of this chapter, other ordinances and statutes;
      (4)   Approve, conditionally approve or reject the final plan submission
within the time required by the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq. As of 1991 this law requires:
         (a)   The Borough Council to act not later than 90 days following the
date of the first regular meeting of the Commission held after it has been
property filed; but in no case shall the Borough Council’s decision be made
later than 120 days following the date the submission was accepted as being
filed for review, unless the applicant grants a written extension of time; and
         (b)   No subdivision or land development shall be granted final
approval until a report received from the Joint Planning Commission or until
the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was accepted to the
Joint Planning Commission.
   (H)   Decision by Borough Council.
      (1)   Notice to applicant. The decision of the Borough Council shall be
in writing and shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to
him or her at his or her last known address not later than 15 days following
the decision.
      (2)   Dedications.
         (a)   The approval of the final plan by the Borough Council shall not
by itself constitute an acceptance of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way, space or area, unless such acceptance is specified at such
time.
         (b)   Any such acceptance of dedication shall be specifically stated
along with the signatures required for approval.
         (c)   As part of an improvements agreement, if the Borough Council
elects to accept lands offered for dedication, the submission shall be
accompanied by duly executed instruments of conveyance to the borough. Such
instruments shall state that the title thereof is free and unencumbered.
      (3)   Disapproval. When a final plan submission is disapproved, the
decision shall specify defects found in the submission, shall describe
requirements which have not been met, and shall cite the provisions of the
statute or ordinance relied upon in each case.
      (4)   Conditions. The Borough Council may attach reasonable conditions to
an approval to ensure the carrying out of the comprehensive plan, this chapter,
other borough ordinances and state laws and regulations.
   (I)   Development in stages.
      (1)   If requested by the applicant, the Borough Council may permit the
undertaking of the required improvements and the preparation of the final plan
to be completed in a series of sections or stages, each covering a portion of
the proposed subdivision as shown on the preliminary plan.
      (2)   If the final plan is to be filed in sections or stages, each
section or stage shall relate logically to provide continuity of access,
extension of utilities and availability of amenities. The boundaries of phases
and the timing of related improvements shall be subject to the approval of the
Borough Council.
   (J)   Final plan submission deadline. An applicant shall file a final plan
within five years from the date of the approval of the preliminary plan by the
Borough Council, unless an extension in writing has been granted by the Borough
Council. Failure to comply with this requirement shall render the preliminary
plan null and void, and a new preliminary plan shall be submitted.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.092 FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Information and materials.
      (1)   All of the information and materials listed in this section are
required as part of all final plans for a major subdivision or a land
development submission. This list of requirements shall serve as both a list of
requirements, and as a checklist for the applicant and the borough to ensure
completion of submissions.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of this section as
part of the application.
   (B)   Required information.
      (1)   The required information listed in this section may be combined or
separated onto different sheets, provided that the plans will be clearly
readable.
      (2)   Supplemental written reports submitted at the time of the
preliminary plan are not required to be resubmitted unless they need to be
revised to reflect changes from the preliminary plans.
   (C)   Final plan for major subdivision or land development checklist.
Tatamy Borough
Final Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Tatamy Borough
Final Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name:                                                         
Applicant’s Address:                                                      
Applicant’s Phone No.:                                                   
Applicant’s Signature:                                                     
Date:                                                                            
*Insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not applicable. Insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a
waiver is requested from the requirement.
Submitted Not         
          Submitted*
                   A.   General submission items:*
             1.   Borough application/review fee(s)/escrow
             2.   Two copies of the completed application (see
                     Appendix A)
             3.   Two copies of this final plan checklist (using the photocopies of the pages in
                     this section)
             4.   Ten print copies of the complete final plans
             5.   Two print copies of only the layout plans
             6.   Three sets of supportive documents (not applicable for lot line adjustments)
             7.   A receipt showing that the plans have been submitted to the JPC for their review;
                     *Note: the borough may require the applicant to file additional copies
                   B.   Drafting requirements. All information shall be legibly and accurately presented
             1.   Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x 36
               in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.)
             2.   Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or other scale pre-approved by the
                     Borough Engineer or borough staff
             3.   All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in degrees,
                     minutes and seconds
             4.   Differentiation between existing and proposed features
             5.   Boundary line of the tract, shown as a heavy line
                        6.   If layout plans involve more than one sheet, a map of the layout of the entire
          project at an appropriate scale on one sheet, with a key map showing how the layout
                     sheets connect
                        7.   If the tract(s) crosses a municipal boundary, a map showing both the portions in
          the borough and the other municipality, in sufficient detail for the borough to determine
                     how the parts will interrelate
                        8.   Required profiles shown at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet horizontal and 1 inch
          equals 5 feet vertical, or other scale pre- approved by the Borough Engineer or borough
                     staff
             9.   All sheets numbered and listed on one page
             10.   Words “final plan” and sheet title (such as “layout plan”) on each sheet
                   C.   General information.
             1.   Name of project on each sheet (may be “F. Smith Subdivision No. 3”)
             2.   Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
             3.   Names of adjacent property owners, including those across adjacent streets and
                     alleys
                        4.   Lot lines of adjacent lots, and approximate locations of any buildings, common
          open spaces, detention basins or drainage channels existing or approved within 100 feet
                     of the boundaries of the proposed project
             5.   Notarized owners statement (see
                     Appendix C)
             6.   Surveyor and plan preparer’s statement (see
                     Appendix C)
                        7.   Approval/review signature blocks for: Borough Council; Borough Planning
          Commission; and Joint Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix C)
                        8.   Location map at a standard scale (preferably 1 inch equals 2,000 feet or 1 inch
          equals 800 feet) showing the location of the project in relation to the following
                     features within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of the tract: existing and proposed streets;
                     waterways; zoning district boundaries; and municipal boundaries
             9.   North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
             10.   Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially noting if is revision
                     of a previously approved plan) with space for future revision dates
             11.   Deed book volume and page number from county records
             12.   Existing tax map, block and lot numbers
                   D.   Natural features.
             1.   Existing contour lines as follows:
                         a.   Shall be based on a field survey or photogrametric procedure that was
                     completed at a scale of 1 inch–100 feet or larger
                           b.   The contour interval shall be sufficient to determine compliance with borough
                   ordinances. An interval of 2 feet for slopes of less than 15% and 5 feet for slopes of
                     15% or greater is generally recommended
                           c.   Note–contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10 acres or
                   more that the plan states are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of this
                     proposed approval
             2.   Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25%, and greater than 25%
             3.   Areas with hydric soils (see county soil survey), or notation that none are
                     present
                        4.   Watercourses (with any name), natural springs, lakes and wetlands. Detailed
                     delineations of wetlands are not required if the plan states that no alteration is
          proposed under this plan of any areas that could be reasonably suspected of being
                     wetlands; any possible wetlands that may be disturbed shall be delineated by a qualified
                     professional prior to preliminary plan approval, however the applicant may be granted
                     final plan approval conditioned upon receipt of all required federal and state permits
             5.   Any rock outcrops, stone fields and sinkholes
             6.   Location of any areas within the 100-year floodplain (with differentiation
                     between floodway and floodfringe if available from official federal floodplain maps)
                        7.   Locations and names of all soil types based upon the county soil survey or more
          detailed professional study with identification of the following types of soils:
                     alluvial; depth to bedrock of less than 3 feet; or a seasonally high water table of less
                     than 3 feet
             8.   Any significant human-made features
                   E.   Human-made features.
                        1.   Existing and proposed lot lines: the boundaries of lots (other than a residual
          lot of at least 10 acres, which may be determined by deed) shall be determined by
                     accurate field survey, closed with an error not to exceed 1 in 10,000 and balanced
             2.   Location of existing monuments
                        3.   Sufficient bearings, lengths of lines, radii, arc lengths, street widths, right-
          of-way and easement widths of all lots, streets, rights-of-way, easements and community
                     or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and every course on the
                     ground
                        4.   Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive covenants and easements
          which might affect development (stating which easements and rights-of-way are proposed
                     for dedication to the borough)
             5.   Existing building locations and land uses
             6.   Overhead electrical high-voltage lines and rights-of- way/easements
                   F.   Zoning requirements.
             1.   Applicable zoning district and required minimum lot area
             2.   Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
             3.   Area and location of any proposed common open space (f none proposed, place “W”
                     in “Not Submitted” column)
             4.   If any common open space proposed: method of ownership and entity proposed to be
                     responsible for maintenance
             5.   If any common open space proposed: description of intended purposes; proposed
                     improvements (such as rough grading); and any proposed recreation facilities
             6.   Statement of type of water and sewer service proposed (such as “public water and
                     public sewer service”)
             7.   Linear feet of proposed streets
             8.   Required and proposed building coverage and impervious coverage (may be stated as
                     “typical proposed” for single- family detached or twin homes)
                   G.   Proposed layout.
             1.   Total acreage of site; total proposed number of lots and dwelling units
             2.   Identification number for each lot
             3.   Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
             4.   Dimensions of each lot in feet
             5.   Existing rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing streets,
                     including existing streets within 100 feet of boundaries of tract
                        6.   Proposed rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing and proposed
          streets, including streets proposed as part of other projects within 100 feet of the
                     boundaries of tract
             7.   Street centerline information, with horizontal curve data, bearings, distances
                     and stations corresponding to the profile
             8.   Right-of-way and curb lines with horizontal curve radii at intersections
             9.   Beginning and end of proposed street construction
             10.   Street improvements proposed by the applicant, including any acceleration/
                     deceleration lanes, traffic signal, street realignment or cartway widening
             11.   Any proposed curbing (place “W” in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed)
             12.   Any proposed sidewalks (place “W” in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed),
                     with any proposed handicapped ramps at intersections
             13.   Any proposed bicycle paths (place “W” in “Not Submitted” column if not proposed)
             14.   Names of existing streets and initial proposed names of new streets (may be
                     “Street A”)
             15.   Designation of streets proposed to be dedicated to the borough or to remain
                     private
                   H.   Utility plan.
             1.   As applicable, the following existing and proposed items for each lot, using the
                     following symbols (or other pre-approved by the borough staff):
                     [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                   1478.png]   Well (if not connected to central water system)–with required separation
                     distance shown from septic drain fields, and with dimensions from lot lines
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1480.png]   Primary drain field (with dimensions from lot lines)
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1482.png]   Secondary drain field
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1486.png]   Soil probe location
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1484.png]   Percolation test location
                      2.   If on-lot sewage disposal systems are proposed:
                a.   Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
                b.   Location of existing and proposed wells within 100 feet of the boundaries of
                     the project
                c.   Proposed or typical location of dwelling/building
                d.   Locations of soils, with highlighting or noting of those with a seasonally
                     high water table averaging less than 3 feet (see county soil survey)
                      3.   If a central sewage system is proposed:
                a.   Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
                b.   Location and size of lines and laterals, with stations of lines corresponding
                     to the profile
                c.   Locations of manholes, with invert elevation of flow line and grade at top of
                     each manhole
                d.   Proposed lot lines and any proposed easements or rights-of-way needed for the
                     utilities
                e.   Location of all other drainage facilities and public utilities in the vicinity
                     of sanitary sewer lines
                f.   Distance noted that sanitary sewer connections that will be needed to reach
                     existing lines (if not already abutting the tract)
                g.   Manhole numbers assigned by the borough municipal authority
                h.   Separation distances from water lines and locations of concrete encasements
                      4.   If central water service is proposed:
                a.   Location and size of existing and proposed waterlines
                b.   Existing and proposed fire hydrant locations
                c.   Distance noted that water lines will have to be extended to reach existing
                     lines (if not already abutting the tract)
                        5.   Any applicable, existing and proposed underground natural gas, electrical,
          telephone, cable TV or other utility lines, with any easements shown that will affect
                     development
             6.   List of contacts for underground utilities in the area, with phone numbers stated
                     on the grading plans (as required by Act 172, 73 P.S. § 176)
                   I.   Grading and stormwater management plan.
             1.   Locations of existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures,
                     including detention basins, swales, pipes (with sizes), culverts and inlets
             2.   Capacity and depth of detention basins
             3.   Pre- and post-development watershed areas for each drainage structure or swale
             4.   Locations of any proposed or existing stormwater easements
             5.   Intended design year standards for culverts, bridge structures and/or other
                     stormwater facilities
             6.   Schematic location of all underground utilities
             7.   Entity responsible to maintain/own any detention basin
             8.   See also requirements of §
                     154.162
             9.   Existing contour lines (see description under “Natural Features”)
             10.   Proposed contour lines
             11.   Locations of any storm sewers, corresponding to stations on the profiles
                   J.   For uses other than single-family detached or twin dwellings.
                        1.   For townhouses or apartments, evidence that the project meets the density
          requirements of the zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances)
                        2.   Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking requirements of the
          zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances)
             3.   Identification numbers for proposed buildings if more than one building per lot
             4.   Arrangement of off-street parking spaces, parking aisles, paved areas and off-
                     street loading areas
             5.   For townhouses, any proposed methods to ensure privacy between outdoor semi-
                     private areas (such as fences between rear yard)
             6.   Illustrative sketches of proposed buildings (encouraged but not required)
             7.   Number, sign area, height and location of proposed signs
             8.   Proposed building locations and land uses (if known)
             9.   Major types and locations of outdoor lighting
             10.   Location of any proposed outdoor storage areas
             11.   Square feet of paved area, including areas covered by gravel
                   K.   Landscape plan.
             1.   Locations of treelines and existing forested areas
                        2.   Locations of individual mature trees of greater than 6 inches trunk diameter
          measured at a height of 3 feet above the surrounding average ground level, other than
                     trees within forested areas and treelines
                        3.   Any proposed evergreen screening, buffer yards or earthen berming (if required by
          zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances))
             4.   Areas of existing mature woods that are proposed to be protected and preserved or
                     removed
                        5.   General types, sizes and locations of any required street trees (see §
          154.172), paved area landscaping (see borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference
                     in
                     Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances)) and any other major proposed landscaping
                        6.   Any proposed fencing (including height and type) and/or landscaping around
          stormwater detention basins (see §
                     154.008)
                   L.   Erosion and sedimentation plan. As required in the preliminary plan requirements.
                   M.   Road profiles.
             1.   Profile of existing and proposed ground surface along centerline of street
             2.   Proposed centerline grade with percent on tangents and elevations at 50 feet
                     intervals
                        3.   All vertical curve data including length, elevations and minimum sight distance
          as required by §§
                     154.155 through
                     154.174
             4.   Proposed utilities
                   N.   Water main, sanitary sewer and storm drain profiles.
             1.   Profile of proposed ground surface with elevations at top of manholes or inlets
             2.   Profile of water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer lines, with stationing
             3.   All line crossings of other utilities
             4.   Invert elevations along flow lines
                   O.   Additional final plan requirements.
                      1.   Protective covenants shall be placed on the land providing for:
                           a.   Clear sight triangle easements (see §§
          154.004 and
                     154.012)
                b.   All needed utility, drainage, maintenance, pedestrian, open space or other
                     easements
                      2.   Required plan notations: the following wording shall be required to be placed on
                     any final subdivision or land development plan, as applicable:
                a.   If access will be provided onto a State highway, “Access to a state highway
                     shall only be provided in compliance with a PennDOT highway occupancy permit.”
                b.   “Well and sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in accordance with
                     standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.”
                           c.   “Individual owners of lots must receive approval from the Borough Sewage
          Enforcement Officer for a sewage permit prior to undertaking the construction of an on-
                     lot sewage disposal system or building that will need to be served by such a system.”
                d.   “Borough Council has not acted upon the feasibility of any individual lot or
                     location within a lot being able to sustain any type of well or sewage disposal system.”
             3.   Street lighting:
                         a.   Existing street lighting
                         b.   Any proposed street lighting (or notation stating none is proposed), including
                     types of poles, spacing of poles and intensity of lamps
             4.   Proposed monument locations.
                   P.   Construction details. (following any applicable borough or utility standards)
             1.   Typical cross-section and specifications for street construction as required by §
                     154.004
             2.   Drainage swale cross-section and construction. materials
             3.   Pipe bedding details
             4.   Storm drainage structures, including any detention basin outfall structure and
                     spillway
             5.   Sanitary sewer structures
             6.   Curb and sidewalk details
             7.   Street tree details
             8.   Erosion and sedimentation details
             9.   Centralized water details
                   Q.   Supporting documents and additional information.
                        1.   A copy of any “supporting documentation and additional information” that was
          required for the preliminary plan and that needed to be adjusted or revised to reflect
                     changes between the preliminary and the final plan
             2.   Copy of any information submitted to PennDOT and any correspondence from PennDOT
                     after the approval of the preliminary plan regarding the proposed access to state roads
             3.   List of modifications or waivers requested to this chapter that are needed but
                     have not yet been granted
                        4.   Deed restrictions: all private deed restrictions, homeowner or condominium
          association agreements or covenants already imposed or to be imposed as a condition to
                     sale; any homeowner or condominium association agreement may be subject to review by the
                     Borough Solicitor and acceptance by the Borough Council
             5.   Storm drainage calculations: any updating needed of calculations (which are
                     normally required at the preliminary plan stage)
             6.   Development schedule: a statement indicating the approximate date when
                     construction can be expected to begin and be completed
                        7.   If water service is proposed by means other than by private individual wells
                     owned by the owner of each lot, the applicant shall present evidence to the borough that
                     the service will be provided by a certified public utility, a bona fide cooperative
          association of property owners or by a municipal corporation, authority or utility, as
                     permitted by the borough; this evidence shall include a copy of one or more of the
                     following, as appropriate: the certificate of public convenience from the Pennsylvania
                     Public Utility Commission or a copy of an application submitted for such certificate or a
                     cooperative agreement or a commitment or agreement to serve the area in question
                        8.   If the subdivision or land development was not required to submit a preliminary
          plan, a copy of any supporting information listed in §
                     154.077 that is applicable to this project
             9.   A copy of the approved DEP sewage planning module, if applicable
                     R.   Materials required prior to recording. The following are not required at the time of
                   final plan submission, but are required prior to recording of the final plan and prior to
                     the construction of any buildings
                      1.   Utilities agreements and permits.
                           a.   All signed agreements or contracts with utility companies, water companies or
          authorities or sewage companies or authorities for the provision of services to the
                     project
                b.   Approval letters from all appropriate federal and state agencies of any
                     private central water supply system or private central sewage disposal system
                c.   DEP water quality management permit, if applicable
                        2.   Reproducible mylar. Reproducible mylar of the “record plan” provided to the
          borough after final plan approval. See §
                     154.122(B)(7)
             3.   Dedicated improvements. The developer shall provide a deed of dedication together
                     with an 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches plan of each such improvements
                        4.   Nondedicated streets agreement. Agreement for any street not offered for
          dedication stating who is responsible for the improvement and maintenance of such
                     streets; the developer shall be responsible for such maintenance until the condominium or
                     homeowners association is established and operational
                        5.   Open space agreement. A formal contract providing for the maintenance of open
          space and the method of management, together with all offers of dedication and covenants
                     governing the reservation and maintenance of undedicated open space. This agreement is
                     subject to the review of the Borough Solicitor and acceptance by the Borough Council
                     S.   Additional information. Such additional information that the Planning Commission or
                   Borough Council may reasonably require to be submitted to determine compliance with a
                     specific provision of a borough ordinance
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.093 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All certification shall comply with the state professional licensing
laws.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land shall be certified and stamped by a
registered land surveyor, as required by state law.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 154.105 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter permit applicants to use a simplified procedure for
submitting minor subdivisions and lot line adjustments for approval.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.106 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Final plan submission required. A final plan submission for each minor
subdivision or lot line adjustment must be filed by the applicant and reviewed
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. A preliminary plan is not
required for a minor subdivision or lot line adjustment.
   (B)   Required submission.
      (1)   The applicant shall file to the staff at least 21 days prior to a
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting the required fee(s) and
required number of copies of required plans and materials required by §
154.107.
      (2)   If a state road is involved, the applicant is also required to
forward plans to the PennDOT and obtain permits prior to final subdivision
approval, unless it is made a condition of final approval.
      (3)   (a)   Plans for lot line adjustments shall provide the information
required by §
154.107.
         (b)   All sheets should be folded to approximately nine inches by 12
inches in size in such a manner that the title of the sheet faces out.
   (C)   Initial actions by the staff.
      (1)   The staff or Borough Engineer shall review the submission items
filed against a checklist for completeness and shall report such review to the
Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The staff shall retain in the Commission’s files one copy of all
materials submitted by the applicant.
      (3)   The staff shall forward to the Commission at or before the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission:
         (a)   Two copies of the application form;
         (b)   One copy of the final plan checklist;
         (c)   Copies of the final plan; and
         (d)   Copies of the supportive documents.
   (D)   Determination of completeness by Commission.
      (1)   Based upon the initial review of the borough staff and/or the
Borough Engineer, the Commission shall have authority, at its first regularly
scheduled meeting after the submission is filed in a timely fashion, to
determine that a submission is significantly incomplete and therefore to refuse
to review the submission further and to do one of the following:
         (a)   Not accept the submission, indicating the deficiencies, and
return the fee (minus the costs of any borough review) to the applicant;
         (b)   Accept the submission as being filed for review on the condition
that the applicant shall file such additional required materials and
information to the staff or appropriate agency or person within a certain
number of days from the date of such acceptance;
         (c)   Table the acceptance of the submission until the next Planning
Commission meeting where the applicant has meet all of the submittal
requirements, and has filed such materials within the required time period
prior to the meeting. The 90-day time limit for action shall not begin until
such acceptance; or
         (d)   Recommend that the plan be rejected by the Borough Council for
just cause.
      (2)   If the Commission determines that the submission is significantly
complete, as filed and as required, the Commission shall accept the plans and
may begin its review.
      (3)   Zoning variances: an application under this chapter shall not be
considered to be complete if one or more zoning variances will be required for
the subdivision or land development to legally occur as submitted, until such
time as the needed zoning variances have been granted.
   (E)   Review by Borough Engineer.
      (1)   Within 45 days from the date duly submitted the plan for review
(unless granted an extension by the Commission), the Borough Engineer should
review the engineering considerations in the plan and prepare an initial report
on such considerations to the Commission.
      (2)   The Borough Engineer may make additional reports and
recommendations to the Commission and the Borough Council during review of the
plan.
   (F)   Review by Commission. The Planning Commission shall accomplish the
following within the time limitations of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., (unless the applicant grants a written time extension):
      (1)   Review all applicable reports received from the appropriate review
agencies and officers;
      (2)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the objectives
and requirements of this chapter, other ordinances and statutes;
      (3)   Review the final plan submission with the applicant, his or her
representative (if present) and recommend any needed revisions so that the
submission will conform to this chapter, other ordinances and statutes; and
      (4)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
final plan submission in an advisory report to the Borough Council, specifying
any recommended conditions for approval, identifying defects found by the
application, describing requirements which have not been met, citing the
provisions of the ordinance or statute relied upon.
   (G)   Review by Borough Council. The Borough Council shall:
      (1)   Review the report of the Commission and any reports received from
any other official reviewing agencies;
      (2)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the objectives
and requirements of this chapter, other ordinances and statutes;
      (3)   Approve or reject the final plan submission within the time
required by the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (As of
1991, this law requires the Borough Council to act not later than 90 days
following the date of the first regular meeting of the Commission held after it
has been duly filed for review; but in no case shall the Borough Council’s
decision be made later than 120 days following the date the submission was
accepted as being filed for review, unless the applicant grants a written
extension of time.); and
      (4)   Joint Planning Commission review: No subdivision or land
development shall be granted final approval until a report is received from the
Joint Planning Commission or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the
application was forwarded to the Joint Planning Commission.
   (H)   Decision by Borough Council.
      (1)   The decision of the Borough Council shall be in writing and shall
be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to him or her or his or
her representative at the last known address not later than 15 days following
the decision.
      (2)   (a)   The approval of the final plan by the Borough Council shall
not by itself constitute an acceptance of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way, space or area, unless such acceptance is specifically made
at such time.
         (b)   Any such acceptance of dedication shall be specifically stated
along with the signatures required for approval.
         (c)   If the Borough Council elects to accept lands offered for
dedication, the submission shall be accompanied by duly executed instruments of
conveyance to the borough. Such instruments shall state that the title thereof
is free and unencumbered.
      (3)   If a final plan submission is disapproved, the decision shall
specify defects found in the submission, shall describe requirements which have
not been met, and shall cite the provisions of the statute or ordinance relied
upon in each case.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.107 MINOR SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Information and materials. All of the following information and
materials listed in this section are required as part of all minor subdivision
submissions. This list of requirements shall serve as both a list of
requirements, and as a checklist for the applicant and the borough to ensure
completion of submissions. The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of
this section as part of the application.
   (B)   Requirements. The requirements of §
154.108 shall apply instead of this section for lot line adjustments,
annexation’s and minor revisions to approved plans.
   (C)   Minor subdivision final plan checklist.
Tatamy Borough
Minor Subdivision Final Plan Checklist and
List of Submittal Requirements
Tatamy Borough
Minor Subdivision Final Plan Checklist and
List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name:                                                        
Applicant’s Address:                                                     
Applicant’s Phone No.:                                                  
Applicant’s Signature:                                 
Date:            
*Insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not applicable. Insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a
waiver is requested from the requirement.
Submitted Not         
          Submitted*
                   A.   General submission items:*
             1.   Borough application/review fee(s)/escrow
             2.   Two copies of the completed application (see
                     Appendix A)
             3.   Two copies of the minor subdivision plan checklist (using the photocopies of the
                     pages in this section)
             4.   Ten copies of the final plan
             5.   Three sets of supportive documents (not applicable for lot line adjustments)
             6.   A receipt showing that the plans were provided to the JPC for review together
                     with the JPC’s review fee
                   B.   Drafting requirements. All information shall be legibly and accurately presented.
             1.   Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x 36
               in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.)
             2.   Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or other scale pre-approved by the
                     Borough Engineer or borough staff
             3.   All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in degrees,
                     minutes and seconds
             4.   Differentiation between existing and proposed features
             5.   Boundary line of the tract, shown as a heavy line
                   C.   General information.
             1.   Name and location of subdivision
             2.   Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
                        3.   Names of adjoining property owners, including those across adjacent streets and
          alleys, with lot lines of adjacent lots and approximate locations of any buildings
                     existing on these lots
             4.   Notarized owners statement of intent (see
                     Appendix C)
             5.   Name, address, signature and seal of the plan surveyor and plan preparer (see
                     Appendix C)
                        6.   Approval/review signature blocks for: Borough Council, Borough Planning
          Commission and Joint Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix C)
                        7.   Location map at a standard scale (preferably 1 inch equals 2,000 feet or 1 inch
          equals 800 feet) showing the location of the project in relation to the following
                     features within 200 feet of the boundaries of the tract: existing and proposed streets;
                     waterways; zoning district boundaries; and municipal boundaries
             8.   North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
             9.   Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially noting if is revision
                     of a previously approved plan)
             10.   Deed book volume and page number from county records
             11.   Tax map number and block and lot for the tract being subdivided
                   D.   Natural features.
             1.   Contour lines as follows:
                         a.   Five percent or less slope–none required, if a note states this condition
                         b.   Five to 15% slope–may be accurately superimposed from the USGS quadrangle map
                           c.   Fifteen percent or greater–shall be based on a field survey or photogrametric
                   procedure at an interval of 2 feet (or other interval pre-approved by the Borough
                     Engineer or borough staff) at a scaled of 1 inch equals 100 feet or larger
                           d.   Note–contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10 acres
                   or more that are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of this proposed
                     subdivision
             2.   Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25%, and greater than 25%, in any areas
                     proposed to be disturbed
             3.   Areas within any hydric soils (see county soil survey), with a notation that
                     there are none if that is the case
                        4.   Watercourses (with any name), natural springs, lakes and wetlands. Detailed
          delineations of wetlands are not required if there is clearly no alteration proposed of
                     any areas that could be reasonably suspected of being wetlands
             5.   Any rock outcrops, stone fields and sinkholes
             6.   Areas of existing mature woods, with areas noted that are proposed to be
                     preserved or removed
                   E.   Human-made features.
             1.   Existing and proposed lot lines.
                           a.   The boundaries of lots (other than a residual lot of at least 10 acres) shall
                   be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an error not to exceed 1 in 10,000
                     and balanced
                         b.   The boundaries of any residual tract which is greater than 10 acres may be
                     determined by deed
             2.   Location of existing and proposed monuments
                        3.   Sufficient bearings, lengths of lines, radii, arc lengths, street widths, right-
          of-way and easement widths of all lots, streets, rights-of-way, easements and community
                     or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and every course on the
                     ground
             4.   Buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that are proposed to be impacted by
                     the subdivision, with name and description
             5.   Sewer lines, stormwater facilities, water lines, bridges and culverts
                        6.   Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive covenants and easements
          for purposes which might affect development (stating which easements and rights-of-way
                     are proposed for dedication to the borough)
             7.   Proposed (if known) and existing building locations and land uses
             8.   Any other significant human-made features
                   F.   Zoning requirements.
             1.   Applicable district and minimum lot area
             2.   Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
                   G.   Proposed layout.
             1.   Total acreage of site and total proposed number of lots
             2.   Identification number for each lot
             3.   Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
             4.   The following items for each lot, as applicable, using the following symbols (or
                     other symbols pre-approved by the borough staff)
                     [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                   1478.png]   Well (if not connected to central water system)–with required separation
                     distance shown from septic drain fields
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1480.png]   Primary drain field
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1482.png]    Secondary drain field
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1486.png]   Soil probe location
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                     1484.png]   Percolation test location
             5.   Existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures
                     H.   Additional information. In addition to the following, the Planning Commission may
                   require the submission of any additional information that would be required for the
                     final plan of a major subdivision under §
                     154.092
                        1.   Residual lands sketch. If the submitted plans do not include all undeveloped or
                     underdeveloped adjacent or abutting lands owned by the same or landowner or under
                     control of the same developer (or closely related corporations), then a sketch shall be
          submitted at an appropriate scale, on one sheet, covering all such land holdings
                     together with a sketch of a reasonable future road system to demonstrate that the
                     proposed subdivision provides for the orderly development of any residual lands and/or
                     does not adversely affect the potential development of residual lands
                        2.   If applicable, DEP sewage planning module application completed by the
          applicant, with evidence that the applicant has forwarded such application to the
                     required review agencies; approval of such module shall be a condition of final plan
                     approval
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.108 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS, ANNEXATIONS AND MINOR REVISIONS OF APPROVED
PLANS.
   (A)   Submission requirements. The reduced submission requirements listed in
this section, together with the procedures described in §
154.106 shall apply only where either of the following apply:
      (1)   The proposal would meet the definition of a “lot line adjustment”;
or
      (2)   In the determination of the borough staff, which may be based upon
advice of the Borough Engineer, the proposal only involves revisions to a
previously approved plan, and those revisions only involve changes in the
supporting documentation or engineering details or to correct erroneous data or
minor omissions.
   (B)   List of requirements. The following list of requirements shall serve
as both a list of requirements, and as a checklist for the applicant and the
borough to ensure completion of submissions. The applicant shall submit
completed photocopies of this section as part of the application. The required
information listed in this section may be combined or separated onto different
sheets, provided that the plans will be clearly readable.
   (C)   Lot line adjustments, annexations and revisions to previously approved
plans checklist.
Tatamy Borough
Lot Line Adjustments, Annexations and Revisions
to Previously Approved Plans
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Tatamy Borough
Lot Line Adjustments, Annexations and Revisions
to Previously Approved Plans
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name:                                                      
Applicant’s Address:                                                      
Applicant’s Phone No.:                                                   
Applicant’s Signature:                                  Date:            
*Insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not applicable. Insert “W” in the “Not Submitted”
column if a waiver is requested from the requirement.
Submitted Not         
          Submitted*
          1.   Borough application/review fee(s)/escrow
          2.   Two copies of the completed application (see
                     Appendix A)
          3.   Two copies of this checklist (using the photocopies of the pages in this
                     section)
          4.   Ten print copies of the complete final plans
          5.   A receipt showing that the plans were provided to the JPC for review
                     together with the JPC’s review fees
          6.   Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x
               36 in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.)
          7.   Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or other standard scale
          8.   All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in
                     degrees, minutes and seconds
          9.   Differentiation between existing and proposed features
          10.   Boundary line of the tract, shown as a heavy line
          11.   Words “final plan” and name of project on each sheet
          12.   Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
          13.   Notarized owners statement (see
                     Appendix C)
          14.   Plan preparer’s statement (see
                     Appendix C)
                     15.   Approval/review signature blocks for: Borough Council; Borough Planning
          Commission; and Joint Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix C)
          16.   Location map at a standard scale (preferably 1 inch equals 2,000 feet or 1
                     inch equals 800 feet) showing the location of the project
          17.   North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
                     18.   Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates and submission dates
          (especially noting if is revision of a previously approved plan) with space for
                     future revision dates
          19.   Existing and proposed lot lines and street rights-of-way
          20.   Existing building locations and land uses
          21.   Applicable zoning district and required minimum lot area
          22.   Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
          23.   Note stating type of water and sewer service proposed (such as “municipal
                     water and municipal sewer”)
          24.   Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
          25.   Dimensions of each lot in feet
          26.   List of any modifications or waivers requested to this chapter
          27.   Any other significant human-made features
 
   (D)   Additional information. The Planning Commission may require that a
plan under this Section include the submission of additional information that
would be required if the plan would be a final minor subdivision plan, if such
information is needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Annexation. An annexation under this section shall be made part of the
same lot with the same deed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.109 RECORDING PLANS.
   See §§
154.140 through
154.142.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES
§ 154.120 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before approving any subdivision or land development plan for
recording, the Borough Council shall require that the borough be assured by
means of a proper development agreement and performance guarantee that the
improvements required by this chapter and the improvements appearing on the
plan will be installed in strict accordance with the standards and
specifications of this chapter, unless: if a developer chooses to install all
required improvements prior to construction of any building, in place of using
performance guarantees, in which case, the borough shall as deemed necessary
require the developer to have adequate insurance, hold harmless agreements and
an escrow account to cover the costs of inspections.
   (B)   Purpose of security. The security required by this subchapter shall
stand as security for compliance with all borough ordinances, other laws,
covenants, stipulations, conditions and rules applicable to the subdivision or
land development for which it is filed.
   (C)   Completion of improvements.
      (1)   No construction of buildings or paving or sales of any individual
lot or condominium unit within a subdivision or land development shall take
place in any subdivision unless applicable plans have been granted final
approval and:
         (a)   There is on file, with the borough, a current duly executed
performance bond (and security escrow agreement if necessary); and
         (b)   All rough grading is complete and all required public
improvements, utilities, streets, drainage facilities, sewers and street lights
have previously been completed and found acceptable by Borough Council based
upon professional inspections.
      (2)   A principal building shall not be occupied unless, at an absolute
minimum, it:
         (a)   Is safe and substantially completed in conformity to all
applicable ordinances, laws and plans;
         (b)   Has electric and telephone service;
         (c)   Is served by any required water, fire hydrants and sanitary
sewage service; and
         (d)   Has access to an existing dedicated public street via a clearly
permanently passable approved street/accessway/parking court with at least a
complete paving base course and any required curbing installed.
      (3)   In extenuating circumstances, the borough may allow the temporary
occupancy of a building pending the completion of certain specific improvements
within a certain specific time limit.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.121 IMPROVEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   The subdivider or land developer shall be responsible to ensure the
installation of all improvements required by this chapter.
   (B)   The Borough Engineer or the borough’s designee shall make such
inspections of the required improvements at such intervals as may be reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with this chapter. The reasonable costs of such
inspection shall be borne by the subdivider or developer, and held in an escrow
account.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.122 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Development agreement required.
      (1)   All applicants proposing any subdivision or land development which
provides for the installation of improvements required by this chapter or any
improvements or amenities which appear on the plan shall be required to enter
into a legally binding development agreement with the borough prior to final
plan approval.
      (2)   The development agreement shall guarantee the installation of said
improvements in strict accordance with all borough requirements.
      (3)   The final plan shall not be approved by the Commission or the
Borough Council prior to the execution of this agreement and the delivery of
the performance guarantee.
   (B)   Terms of development agreement. The development agreement shall be in
the manner and form approved by the Borough Solicitor and it shall consist of
the following terms, where applicable, unless waived by Borough Council:
      (1)   The construction depicted on the approved plans, listed in itemized
format, including but all approved streets, drainage facilities, utility lines
and other improvements;
      (2)   A work schedule setting forth the beginning and maximum ending
dates of such work tied to the construction of the development, and provisions
to allow proper inspection by the Borough Engineer or other authorized
inspector;
      (3)   The provision of a performance guarantee for completion of required
improvements in compliance with §
154.123, including a detailed breakdown of the estimated costs of the
improvements, including the total amount of the performance guarantee;
      (4)   Provisions concerning the developer’s responsibilities for damage
to other property, including maintenance by the developer of public liability
insurance for the duration of improvements construction, with a hold harmless
clause to protect the borough from liability related to such work. A copy or
other evidence of such liability coverage shall be provided to the borough
prior to such work;
      (5)   Provisions concerning measures to prevent erosion, sedimentation
and water damage to the subject and adjacent properties;
      (6)   Provisions for the dedication of streets, water and sewer lines and
any other easements or improvements approved to be dedicated;
      (7)   See §
154.141 concerning the requirement for a “record” plan and §
154.124(H) concerning “as-built” plans;
      (8)   Provisions for the developer to reimburse the borough for all
reasonable engineering and legal costs directly related to the review,
construction and inspection of the proposed development and to the review and
preparation of the development agreements;
      (9)   Provisions concerning any violations of the development agreement;
      (10)   Any other lawful terms which the Borough Council may require to
carry out the provisions of this chapter; and
      (11)   Signatures: the development agreement shall be signed by all
landowners and/or developers.
   (C)   Ownership of land and guarantee.
      (1)   Generally. A certificate of ownership in the form of Appendix C
shall be executed in the exact name in which title is held. If the developer(s)
of a subdivision is someone other than the landowner(s) of the subdivision, the
developer shall also execute this affidavit, along with a performance bond and
security agreements.
      (2)   Change in ownership or developer.
         (a)   Any conveyance of all or a substantial portion of the unimproved
lots or public improvements or streets of any subdivision or change in
developers, whether voluntary or by action of law or otherwise, shall require
the prior approval of the Borough Council.
         (b)   In giving or denying said approval, the Borough Council shall
require that such new landowner and/or developer fully assume all applicable
responsibilities under the development agreement and post all the appropriate
bonds and security agreements.
   (D)   Utility agreements. If a development will connect into a public water
or public sanitary sewage system, the applicable authority, agency or company
may also require separate development agreements.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.123 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   The performance guarantee for completion of required improvements shall meet
the following requirements.
   (A)   Security.
      (1)   The guarantee shall be secured by the credit of any of the
following:
         (a)   An irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit of a federal
or state chartered lending institution;
         (b)   A restrictive or escrow account in a federal or state chartered
lending institution; and
         (c)   Such other financial security approved by the Borough Council
(which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), but not including a second
or third mortgage on the unimproved lands.
      (2)   Such bond, or other security shall provide for, and secure to the
public, the completion of any improvements which may be required within one
year of the date fixed in the development schedule for the completion of such
improvements.
      (3)   Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or
federally issued or state chartered lending institution chosen by the party
posting the financial security, provided said bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business within the state.
         (a)   The Borough Council may require that evidence be provided that
such institution or company has sufficiently adequate and secure assets to
cover the security.
         (b)   The borough shall be an authorized signatory on any account in
which the escrow funds are held and all escrow funds from sales of lots shall
be paid directly to such fund, and a monthly statement shall be furnished to
the borough.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer in the official development schedule, and within the process for
increases to cover inflation as permitted by the Municipalities Planning Code,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      (2)   The cost of the improvements shall be established by an estimate
prepared by a state registered professional engineer, within the process
established by the Municipalities Planning Code.
      (3)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security shall be increased by
an additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date
from posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the
cost of completing the required improvements as reestablished on or about the
expiration of the preceding one-year period by using the above bidding
procedure.
   (C)   Multi-year or multi-stage development. In the case where development
is projected over a period of years, the Borough Council may authorize
submission of final plans by phases/stages of development subject to such
requirements or guarantees as to improvements in future sections or stages of
development as it finds necessary for the proper functioning of each phase and
for the eventual development as a whole.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.124 APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In general. As the work of installing the required improvements
proceeds, the party posting the financial security may request the Borough
Council to release or authorize the release, from time to time, such portions
of the financial security necessary for payment to the contractor(s) performing
the work.
   (B)   Notice of completion. When the developer has completed an improvement,
the developer shall notify the Borough Council in writing by certified or
registered mail of such completion and request for release and shall send a
copy thereof to the Borough Engineer.
   (C)   Engineer’s report.
      (1)   Within 30 days of the receipt of such request, the Borough Engineer
shall submit a written report certifying which improvements have been completed
in accordance with the approved plan to the Borough Council and mail a copy of
such report by certified or registered mail to the developer or his or her
representative at his or her last known address.
      (2)   This report shall be based on the inspections made according to the
approved inspection schedule included in the development agreement and shall
recommend approval or rejection of the improvements, either in whole or in
part.
      (3)   If the Borough Engineer finds any or all of the improvements to be
not as required, he or she shall include a statement of the reasons for
recommending their rejection in the report.
   (D)   Decision by Borough Council.
      (1)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the
Engineer’s report (but not later than 45 days of the receipt of the request),
the Borough Council shall review the Borough Engineer’s report and shall
authorize release of an amount as estimated by the Borough Engineer fairly
representing the value of the improvements completed.
      (2)   The Borough Council shall be deemed to have approved the release of
funds as requested if the Borough Council fails to act within 45 days of
receipt of the developer’s request.
      (3)   Until final release (completion of all improvements), the Borough
Council may require retention of 10% of the cost of each completed improvement.
      (4)   The Borough Council shall notify the developer in writing by
certified or registered mail of the decision.
   (E)   Completion of unapproved improvements. The developer shall proceed to
complete any improvements not approved by the Borough Council and, upon
completion, request approval in conformance with the procedures specified in
this section.
   (F)   Final release.
      (1)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall request final release in
conformance with the procedures specified in this section. See time limitations
and procedures in § 510 of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10510.
      (2)   Such final release shall include all moneys retained under division
(D)(3) above.
   (G)   Appeal. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed to limit the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise any
determination of the Borough Council or the Borough Engineer.
   (H)   As-built plans. The developer shall provide to the borough a set of
plans showing improvements as actually built within 90 days after each phase of
improvements are completed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.125 REMEDIES TO EFFECT COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Enforcement of security.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   In the event that any improvements which may be required have
not been installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved
final plan, or in the event of the bankruptcy of the owner or developer, the
Borough Council is hereby granted the power to elect to enforce any security
posted under this chapter by appropriate legal and equitable remedies.
         (b)   This may include taking all actions necessary to obtain moneys
under said bond, including, but not limited to, seizure of undeveloped lots,
confession of judgment, suit on the bond, seizure of escrow funds, revocation
of building permits and prosecution under this chapter.
      (2)   Rate of construction. Failure of a developer to construct streets
and other public improvements reasonably at the same time or prior to the
construction of the buildings served by those streets or public improvements,
and at the same rate in time at which buildings are completed, shall be a
violation of this chapter and a cause for default.
   (B)   Completion by borough. If the proceeds of such bond or other security
are insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections
to all the improvements covered by said security, the Borough Council may, at
its option, install part of such improvements in all or part of the subdivision
or land development and may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to
recover the moneys necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements.
   (C)   Proceeds for installation of improvements. The proceeds from use of
the security and/or from any legal or equitable action brought against the
developer shall be used solely for the installation of the improvements covered
by such security.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.126 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Maintenance agreement required.
      (1)   All applicants proposing any subdivision or land development which
provides for the dedication of improvements required by this chapter or any
improvements or amenities which appear on the plan shall be required to enter
into a legally binding maintenance agreement with the borough prior to
acceptance of dedication by the borough.
      (2)   The dedication of any improvement shall not be accepted by the
borough prior to the execution of a maintenance agreement and the delivery of
the maintenance guarantee.
   (B)   Terms of maintenance agreement. The maintenance agreement shall be in
the manner and form approved by the Borough Solicitor, and shall include all of
the following:
      (1)   The applicant make any repair or reconstruction of any improvement
stipulated in the maintenance agreement which is specified by the Borough
Council if needed because of faulty construction, workmanship or materials,
prior to acceptance of such improvement by the borough;
      (2)   The applicant maintain at his or her own cost all improvements
stipulated in the maintenance agreement, up to a maximum period of 18 months
from the date of acceptance or dedication by the borough, except for any
special purpose escrow or maintenance agreements required by the borough;
      (3)   The applicant post financial security to secure structural
integrity of said improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements
in accordance with the design and specifications as depicted on the final plan,
for a maximum term of 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication; and
      (4)   The developer plow snow and maintain all streets until such time as
the borough may accept such streets.
   (C)   Public utilities and authorities.
      (1)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both and related
apparatus or facilities are to be installed under the jurisdiction and under
the rules and regulations of a public utility or municipal authority, financial
security to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority.
      (2)   This amount of financial security shall not also be required by the
borough if it is required by such utility or authority.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.127 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Security. The maintenance guarantee shall be secured by the credit of
any of the following:
      (1)   An irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit of a federal or
state chartered lending institution;
      (2)   A restrictive or escrow account in a federal or state chartered
lending institution; or
      (3)   Such other financial security approved by the Borough Council
(which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld).
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   Such maintenance guarantee shall be in the form approved by the
Borough Solicitor and Borough Council, payable to the borough, to guarantee the
maintenance and repair of the streets and other public improvements in the
subdivision or land development for 18 months from the date of acceptance
thereof by the borough.
      (2)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Borough
Council that there will be an acceptable system for the long-term maintenance
of any stormwater detention basins.
   (C)   Amount. The amount of the maintenance guarantee shall be determined by
the applicant’s engineer, conditioned upon acceptance by Borough Council, but
shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of such improvements.
   (D)   Release. After a maximum of 18 months from the date of acceptance of
said improvements, the borough shall release the maintenance guarantee to the
developer (or party posting said maintenance guarantee) if all improvements are
in satisfactory condition.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN
§ 154.140 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Deadline. The applicant is responsible to ensure that the final plan
as approved by the Borough Council is recorded in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the County within 90 days of such final approval. If the final plan
approval included official conditions that must be met prior to recording, then
the plan shall be recorded within 90 days following the applicant proving to
the borough that the conditions have been met, up to a maximum total of one
year following the final plan approval. In any case, an extension of these time
periods may be granted in writing by Borough Council. If the borough does not
agree to transport the plans for recording, then the applicant shall send or
deliver a receipt of the recording to the borough offices.
   (B)   Option. At its option, the borough may agree to record a final plan,
in which case the applicant shall compensate the borough for such costs.
   (C)   Conditions for recording. The final plan shall not be recorded unless
the applicant proves that they have met all required conditions that the
borough staff determine would impact the recorded final plan.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.141 RECORD PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide one clear and legible paper copy and one
mylar copy of the official record plan to the borough, in addition to the type
of copy required to be provided to the county. The borough’s copy shall be made
after recording.
   (B)   Such record plan, at an absolute minimum, shall include all of the
following:
      (1)   Street rights-of-way;
      (2)   Common open spaces;
      (3)   Easements and any covenants that the borough required to be placed
on the final plan;
      (4)   Lot lines and lot dimensions;
      (5)   Water lines, sanitary and storm sewer, lines and stormwater
drainage facilities;
      (6)   The required signatures of borough officials and the JPC staff; and
      (7)   Whether the streets, any common open space and other proposed
improvements are proposed to be offered or not offered for dedication to the
borough.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.142 EFFECT OF RECORDING.
   (A)   Official map. If the borough has adopted or does adopt an official
map, any streets and common open space on the record plan shall be considered
to be part of that official map.
   (B)   Private improvements. Every street, park or other improvement shown on
a subdivision or land development plan that is recorded, as provided herein,
shall be deemed to be a private street, open space or improvement until such
time it may be offered and officially accepted for dedication to the borough,
or is duly condemned.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.155 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The design standards and improvements required
in this subchapter are the minimum requirements for approval of a subdivision
or land development. Additional or higher type improvements may be required in
specific cases where the Borough Council determines such improvements are
clearly necessary to protect the public health and safety.
   (B)   Modifications and exceptions. See §
154.007.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.156 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subchapter purpose. This subchapter sets forth the design and
construction standards for required improvements.
   (B)   (1)   Minimum standards application. These minimum standards shall
apply to any such improvement, regardless of whether the improvement will be
dedicated to the borough.
      (2)   Enforcement of security.
         (a)   Enforcement by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. In the
event that any improvements which may be required have not been installed as
provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final plan or in the
event of the bankruptcy of the owner or developer, the Borough Council is
hereby granted the power to elect to enforce any security posted under this
chapter by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. This may include taking
all actions necessary to obtain moneys under said bond, including, but not
limited to, confession of judgment, suit on the bond, seizure of escrow funds,
seizure of undeveloped lots, revocation of building permits and prosecution
under this chapter.
         (b)   Rate of construction. Failure of a developer to construct
streets and other public improvements reasonably at the same time or prior to
the construction of the buildings served by those streets or public
improvements, and at the same rate in time at which buildings are completed,
shall be a violation of this chapter and a cause for default.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992; Ord. 200, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 154.157 OVERALL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Suitability of land. Land shall be suitable for the purpose for which
it is to be subdivided or developed.
   (B)   Hazardous conditions.
      (1)   Subdivisions or land developments subject to hazardous conditions
(such as open quarries, limestone solution channels, presence of toxic
substances, unconsolidated fill, flood prone land, excessive eroding land or
contaminated water supply) shall not be approved until the developer has
provided or has legally committed to provide adequate measures to overcome or
eliminate the hazards, in the determination of the Borough Council.
      (2)   See the floodplain requirements of the borough zoning ordinance (as
adopted by reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (C)   Comprehensive plan. The subdivision or land development shall be
designed with consideration of any applicable provisions of the borough
comprehensive plan.
   (D)   Zoning. All aspects of a proposed subdivision or land development
shall conform to the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) and all other borough ordinances and
specifications.
   (E)   Nearby development. A subdivision or land development and its street
pattern shall be coordinated with existing or approved nearby developments or
neighborhoods to provide for harmonious development and to help prevent
conflicts between different developments.
   (F)   Safety. No subdivision or land development shall occur in such a way
that would significantly threaten the public health and safety, including
hazards of toxic substances, traffic hazards, explosive hazards or fire
hazards.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.158 STREETS.
   (A)   Access to proposed subdivisions and land developments. All proposed
subdivisions and land developments shall have adequate and safe access to the
public street system. Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the
land to produce usable lots and reasonably sloped streets.
   (B)   Stub streets. A subdivision or land development shall include the
extension of a proposed street with right-of-way to the boundary line of the
tract to provide for an eventual extension into all adjacent tracts for
efficient circulation of traffic throughout the area.
   (C)   Street improvements. Where a subdivision or land development abuts or
contains an existing street of inadequate cartway or right-of-way width,
additional right-of-way and/or cartway width shall be required conforming with
the table in division (F) below.” See also § 801.A. of the zoning ordinance (as
adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) entitled “Frontage Required Onto
Improved Street.”
   (D)   Intersections.
      (1)   The centerlines of streets shall intersect at right angles.
      (2)   (a)   No more than two streets shall intersect at one point. Where
one street intersects a cross street, the intersecting street shall either be
aligned with any street intersecting on the other side of the cross street or
be offset by the following minimum distances:
            1.   One hundred fifty feet along a local street;
            2.   Four hundred feet along a collector street; and
            3.   One thousand feet along an arterial street.
         (b)    The minimum distances of this division (D)(2) shall be measured
between the points where the centerlines of the rights-of-way of the
intersecting streets intersect with the centerline of the cross street (see the
following figures).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1508.png]
 
      (3)   At street intersections, the property line shall be rounded by arcs
with the radii listed below. For arterial streets, the Borough Council may
require a larger radius than stated below, if recommended by the Borough
Engineer. (See chart below.)
 
               Minimum Radius of Arc at        Minimum Radius of Arc at
Type of Street Intersection of Cartway Edge or Intersection of Right-of- Way
               Curb Line (in feet)             (in feet)
Arterial       40                              30
Collector      35                              25
Local          25                              15
 
   (E)   Arterial and collector street frontage. Where a subdivision or land
development abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial or collector
street, the Borough Council shall require one or more of the following methods
of layout and site design. The decision on which method to use shall be solely
at the discretion of Borough Council:
      (1)   The use of a marginal access or “frontage” street or access only
onto side or interior streets, to collect traffic from numerous driveways and
direct it to a select few number of entrances to the arterial or collector
street;
      (2)   The minimization of the number and length of driveway cuts or
street intersections onto an arterial or collector street, which may include
requiring the use of shared driveways between adjacent uses or lots;
      (3)   The restriction of ingress and egress involving left-hand turns
onto or off of the arterial or collector street;
      (4)   The prohibition of driveways from individual dwellings entering
directly onto an arterial or collector street. If there is no alternative to
this, each driveway entering onto an arterial or collector street shall have
adequate turn-around space for vehicles provided within the lot so that
vehicles do not back onto the street; and/or
      (5)    See also the section of the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted
by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances ) entitled “Access onto Arterial and
Collector Streets”.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1510.png]
 
   (F)   Street design standards.
      (1)   The elements of street and road right-of-way construction shall
consist of road grading to the full width of right-of-way, concrete curbing,
paving and concrete sidewalk as required in this section.
      Design Standards for Streets
   (All Dimensions in Feet Unless Specified)
                      Type of Street
Design Specifications Arterial Collector Local and Marginal Access
      Design Standards for Streets
   (All Dimensions in Feet Unless Specified)
                                 Type of Street
Design Specifications            Arterial Collector Local and Marginal Access
Acceleration/deceleration lane
width (where determined to be    12       NA        NA
needed by the Borough Council or
PennDOT)
Cartway width                    44*****  40*****   36
Maximum grade****                6%       8%        10%
Minimum sight distance*          475      300       200
Minimum tangent between reverse  200      100       100
curves**
Minimum centerline radii for     400***   300       150
horizontal curves
Right-of-way width               80       60        50
      NA = Not applicable
*      Horizontal sight distances shall be measured from a point 3.5 feet
above the road surface to a point 6 inches above the road surface, and shall
be based upon standards of the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO)
**      All tangents shall be measured along the street centerline
***      Larger radii may be required as determined by the Borough Engineer
****   Minimum grades for all streets shall be 1.0%, unless the Borough
Engineer determines that a lesser grade acceptable
*****   Or as required by PennDOT if a state street is involved, plus any
turning lanes that may be required by PennDOT or Borough Council
 
      (2)   Arterial roads shall have an 80-foot design right-of-way minimum
with at least two 12-foot traffic lanes and two paved ten-foot pull off lanes/
shoulders. Curbs and sidewalks are required.
      (3)   Collector roads shall have a 60-foot design right-of-way minimum,
at least two 12-foot traffic lanes and two eight-foot paved pull off lanes/
shoulders. Curbs and sidewalks are required.
      (4)   Local streets shall have a 50-foot design right-of-way minimum,
with two ten-foot traffic lanes with two eight-foot paved pull off lanes/
shoulders. Curbs and sidewalks are required.
      (5)   Horizontal curves shall connect street lines that are deflected in
excess of two degrees.
      (6)   Vertical curves shall be used at changes of grade exceeding 1%. The
length of the vertical curve shall be determined by multiplying the algebraic
difference in change of percent in grade by the following factors:
         (a)   Arterial streets: 160 feet;
         (b)   Collector streets: 80 feet; and
         (c)   Local and marginal access streets: 30 feet.
      (7)   All approaches to an intersection of two or more streets shall have
a leveling area not greater than 5% grade for a distance of 25 feet for a local
street and 50 feet for an arterial or collector street, measured from the
nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
      (8)   The grade across the turnaround in a cul-de-sac shall not exceed
5%.
      (9)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall be 1%.
      (10)   A minimum tangent of 100 feet shall be required between reverse
curves on a street and between a curve and a street intersection where one of
the intersecting streets is a collector or an arterial street.
   (G)   Easements. Easements shall be provided adjacent to street rights-of-
way, tract boundaries and lot lines and other required areas according to the
following standards.
      (1)   Drainage, sanitary or domestic water easements shall be provided as
indicated and required by the plans, the borough or the utility owner. The
minimum width of easement shall be 20 feet (which might include ten feet on
each side of abutting lots within a subdivision) with an additional width of
ten feet for each additional utility.
      (2)   A minimum separation distance of ten feet shall be provided between
any sanitary sewer and any other utility or storm sewer. The centerline of any
sanitary or storm sewer shall be a minimum of ten feet from the edge of any
utility easement.
   (H)   Sightlines at intersections of streets. The requirements of the
borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in Chapter 155 of this code
of ordinances) shall apply to all subdivisions and land developments.
   (I)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac streets shall be permitted with a maximum length of 800
feet and a minimum of 250 feet measured from the curb line of the intersecting
street to the curb line at the farthest point in the cul-de-sac. Cul-de-sac
streets shall include a turn-around with a minimum radius of 40 feet to the
face of the curb and a minimum radius of 50 feet to the legal right-of-way (see
the figure below).
      (2)   The circular right-of-way of the cul-de-sac shall maintain a
minimum ten feet width between the edge of paving and the edge of right-of-way.
The circular paving of the cul-de-sac shall be connected to the approach paving
by an arc having a radius of not less than 150 feet (see figure below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1512.png]
 
      (3)   The Borough Council, upon the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, may permit acceptable alternative turn-around designs, including a
turn-around of acceptable radii incorporated into a parking court or a
landscaped island (with an acceptable system for maintenance) within a cul-de-
sac.
      (4)   No street shall dead-end without an approved turn-around at the end
of the street. Temporary stub streets shall be required to include at least a
temporary cul-de-sac, if the stub would be longer than 150 feet or serve more
than three dwellings or lots.
      (5)   A cul-de-sac street shall serve a maximum of 20 dwelling units.
      (6)   See also the design standards in the table in division (F) above.
   (J)   Maintenance. As a condition for final plan approval, the developer
must enter into a legally binding agreement which shall state who is to be
responsible for the improvement and maintenance of any street not offered for
dedication. If an association of lot owners is to be made responsible, such
association must be legally organized prior to plan approval by an agreement
approved by the borough.
   (K)   Street design and construction standards.
      (1)   Generally. Streets shall be graded, improved and surfaced to the
grades and dimensions shown on plans, profiles and cross-sections submitted by
the developer that meet applicable borough standards.
      (2)   Right-of-way grading.
         (a)   The entire right-of-way shall be graded to the approved cross-
section. All trees, stumps and other material deemed unsuitable by the Borough
Engineer shall be removed. The excavation shall be backfilled and suitably
compacted to the satisfaction of the Borough Engineer.
         (b)   The finished street surface shall be crowned in conformance with
the borough street and improvement specifications.
         (c)   A proper super-elevation (banked curves) shall be provided on
arterial and collector streets when required by the Borough Engineer.
      (3)   Grading beyond right-of-way.
         (a)   The subdivider or developer may be required to grade beyond the
right-of-way line in order to provide continuous slope from the right-of-way
line to the proposed elevation of the abutting property.
         (b)   Such grading beyond the right-of-way shall maintain the original
conditions of slope and contours except where stormwater runoff designs dictate
or warrant improvement or alteration of the original slope and contours.
         (c)   Approved plans, either preliminary or final, showing proposed
grading, shall be a covenant running with the land, unless altered by written
permission from the Borough Council.
         (d)   In areas of earth excavation or earth fill, such grading shall
be done to a maximum slope of one foot vertical to three feet horizontal.
         (e)   In no case shall the required street grading extend onto an
adjoining property with a different landowner, unless time other adjoining
property owner gives a written agreement to the developer to accomplish such
work.
      (4)   Trench excavation. All trenches excavated within the cartway of an
existing or proposed public street or right-of-way shall be mechanically
compacted with backfill acceptable to the Borough Engineer or be stone
backfilled if the cartway is to be paved in the same construction season.
      (5)   Drainage. Drainage of streets shall comply with §
154.162.
      (6)   Street construction standards. All streets shall meet the following
construction standards, which may be revised by Borough Council by resolution,
based upon the latest version of PennDOT’s Form 408 or its successor
publication, unless a differing standard is required by PennDOT for a state
street:
 
Street Construction Standards
                         Local Streets and          Local and Collector Streets
                         Collector Streets Not      Abutting or Within an
                         Abutting or Not Within an  Industrial Zoning District
                         Industrial Zoning District or Any Arterial Street
2A aggregate subbase     4 inches                   4 inches
Bituminous concrete base 5 inches                   6 inches
course*
ID-2 Binder**            Not required               3 inches
ID-2 wearing course***   1.5 inches                 1.5 inches
*   Superpave 25 mm base course may be substituted
**   Superpave 25 mm binder course may be substituted
***   Superpave 9.5 mm wearing course may be substituted
 
      (7)   Sub-grade. All streets shall be constructed upon a properly rolled
and crowned sub-grade.
   (L)   Private streets. Any private street or accessway that will eventually
serve traffic from three or more dwelling units or two or more industrial,
commercial and/or institutional uses shall be designed and constructed to
borough construction standards, including the provision of a street right-of-
way. This requirement shall not apply to a parking court that is not serving
through-traffic or to a driveway serving a single building.
   (M)   Required street improvements.
      (1)   If there is a reasonable relationship between the need for an “on-
site improvement” of a street (including, but not limited to, a new or upgraded
traffic signal, or land dedication to improve an abutting intersection, or the
re-alignment of an abutting curve in a street or widening of the abutting
cartway or right-of-way) and a proposed subdivision or land development, the
subdivision or land development shall be required to fund its fair share of the
cost of such improvement and to dedicate sufficient right-of-way.
      (2)   An applicant for any land development or major subdivision shall be
required to widen the cartway and any shoulders of abutting streets to borough
standards, from the centerline of the street right-of-way inward towards the
project’s lot lines, unless PennDOT specifically refuses in writing to allow
such improvement to a state street.
      (3)   The following shall be the definition of “on-site improvement”,
unless this definition is amended by state law: “all street improvements
constructed on the applicant’s property, or the improvements constructed on the
property abutting the applicant’s property that are necessary for the ingress
and egress to the applicant’s property.”
      (4)   (a)   In place of funding the improvement at the time of final
approval, the borough may enter into an agreement to:
            1.   Allow the developer to construct the improvement;
            2.   Allow the improvement to be funded in stages in relationship
to the stages of the development; or
            3.   Require the funds to be placed in escrow until such time as
sufficient funds are available for a more comprehensive improvement.
         (b)   Any such funds received under this section shall be accounted
for separately and remain committed to traffic improvements.
      (5)   This section shall be carried out through determinations of the
Borough Council, based upon recommendations of the Planning Commission, which
shall make determinations based directly upon the recommendations of the
Borough Engineer, any comments from PennDOT and any professional traffic
studies that have been submitted.
      (6)   No final certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the
structure is completed as approved with service by all required utilities and
with approved access onto a street. Any new or improved street shall be
completed to required standards, if applicable.
   (N)   Extensions of public streets.
      (1)   Borough Council shall require that an applicant extend a public
street where deemed necessary to serve a proposed subdivision or land
development.
      (2)   If only a minor residential or agricultural subdivision is
involved, and if the applicant only owns or controls the land on only one side
of the proposed street, then the applicant shall only be required to extend and
improve such street and install any required curbing and sidewalks from the
centerline of the planned street right-of-way to the applicant’s proposed lot
lines, except that in no case shall the cartway be less than 16 feet in width.
In such case, the completion of the other side of the right-of-way shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the abutting property on that side, at the time
that such land is proposed for a subdivision or land development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992; Res. 2002-03, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 200, passed 2-3-
2003)
§ 154.159 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Maximum length. Residential blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet in
length in subdivisions using an average lot size of one acre or larger and
shall not exceed 1,200 feet in length in subdivisions having an average lot
size less than one acre, unless permitted by the Borough Council.
      (2)   Minimum length. Residential blocks shall have a minimum length of
250 feet, unless otherwise approved by the Borough Council.
      (3)   Width. Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of
lots except where access is limited by virtue of an adjoining arterial street
or by virtue of topographic limitations, unless permitted by the Borough
Council.
   (B)   Nonresidential. Nonresidential blocks shall not be less than 600 feet
in length.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.160 LOTS.
   (A)   Conformity. Lots shall conform to the applicable minimum lot sizes,
lot widths, setback and all other requirements as set forth in the borough
zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   Frontage. All lots shall front on a public or private street improved
to meet borough standards or for which such improvements have been insured by
the posting of an acceptable performance guarantee under this chapter.
   (C)   Ratio of depth to width. The average depth-to-width ratio of a lot
shall generally not be greater than three to one, unless otherwise permitted by
the Borough Council.
   (D)   Side lines. Side lines of lots shall abut and be approximately at
right angles to straight streets and on radial lines to curved streets, unless
otherwise permitted by the Borough Council. Pointed or very irregularly shaped
lots shall be avoided. (See figures below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1514.png]
 
   (E)     Double frontage lots; planting strip.
      (1)    Double frontage lots shall ordinarily not be created except as
needed to avoid direct vehicular access onto an arterial or collector street by
individual driveways.
      (2)   On any residential lot that includes a rear yard directly abutting
onto a collector or arterial street or expressway, such rear yard shall include
a ten- foot deep planting strip along the back of the lot, with access across
this strip clearly prohibited on notes on any approved plan (see figure below).
In addition to any street trees required by §
154.172, this planting strip shall include evergreen plantings meeting the
buffer yard requirements of the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by
reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). Any fencing in the rear of such lots
shall be placed on the inside side of such plantings. Such plantings shall be
placed so that they do obstruct safe sight distance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1516.png]
 
   (F)   Remnants of land. If the remnants of land (other than rights-of-way)
exist after subdividing, they shall be incorporated in existing or proposed
lots.
   (G)   Bus stops.
      (1)   The developer of any residential land developments or subdivisions
that involve 15 or more dwelling units shall contact the school district prior
to submitting final plans to establish an acceptable and safe location for a
school bus stop.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may require the developer of any major
subdivision or land development to contact the local public transportation
agency to seek an appropriate location for a public bus stop.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.161 OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION AREAS AND FEES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   To provide adequate open spaces, recreational lands and
recreational facilities to serve new residents of new developments, for both
active and passive recreation; and
      (2)   To recognize and work to carry out the recreation plan sections of
the officially adopted borough comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section shall apply to any subdivision or land development for
which a preliminary plan or a combined preliminary/final plan is submitted
after the enactment date of this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to plans that the Borough Council
determines only involve clearly minor adjustments or corrections to an approved
preliminary plan or clearly minor adjustments or corrections to a preliminary
plan that was before the borough for consideration at the date of the adoption
of this amendment.
   (C)   Limitations on use of fees.
      (1)   Any fees collected under this section shall be placed within an
interest-bearing account and shall be accounted for separately from other
borough funds.
      (2)   Such fees shall only be used for the following: acquisition of
public open space; development of public recreational facilities; landscaping
of public open space; and closely related engineering and design work.
      (3)   Unless the borough identifies fees for a particular set of
facilities or particular recreation area, then the fees shall be used for the
further development of the North Tatamy Playground or the Tatamy Municipal Park
as recreation areas providing programs and facilities for the entire borough.
   (D)   Land dedication.
      (1)   Any subdivision or land development regulated under this section
shall be required to dedicate the specified amount of common open space, unless
the Borough Council determine that such land in that location would not serve a
valid public purpose, in which case recreation fees-in-lieu of land shall be
required.
      (2)   Generally, it is the intent of this section that developments of
five or fewer dwelling units that do not include land that is adjacent to
existing publicly owned land shall be required to pay a recreation and open
space fee in lieu of dedicating land. However, if the applicant does not agree
to pay such fees, then land shall be required to be dedicated.
      (3)   The land and fee requirements of this section shall be based upon
the number of new dwelling units that would be permitted on the lots of a
subdivision or land development after approval.
      (4)   Amount of common open space: a residential subdivision or land
development shall be required to dedicate 1,000 square feet of land per
proposed dwelling unit as common open space, unless the Borough Council
determines that recreation fees in-lieu of the open space would be more in the
public interest.
   (E)   Fees for residential development. If the Borough Council determines
that a land dedication within a proposed subdivision or land development would
not be in the public interest, the applicant shall be required to pay fees-in-
lieu of dedicating open space. This fee shall be $1,000 in an amount as
established, from time to time, by resolution of Borough Council, per permitted
dwelling unit, unless these fees are revised by later resolution of the Borough
Council.
   (F)   Decision on land versus fees. The Borough Council shall determine
whether a land dedication or the payment of fees shall be required. This
determination should, but is not required to, be made at the time of sketch
plan review. The borough should, at a minimum, consider the following in this
decision:
      (1)   Whether the land in that location would serve a valid public
purpose;
      (2)   Whether there is potential to make a desirable addition to an
existing recreation area;
      (3)   Whether the proposed land would meet the objectives and
requirements of this section;
      (4)   Whether the area surrounding the proposed development has
sufficient existing recreation and open space land, and whether it is possible
for pedestrians and bicyclists to reach those lands;
      (5)   Any recommendations that may be received from the Planning
Commission; and
      (6)   Any relevant policies of the borough comprehensive plan.
   (G)   Land to be dedicated.
      (1)   Land shall be suitable. Land required to be dedicated shall be
suitable for its intended purpose, in the determination of the Borough Council.
The applicant shall state what improvements, if, any, that he or she intends to
make to the land to make it suitable for its intended purpose, such as grading,
landscaping or development of trails. Such land shall be free of construction
debris at the time of dedication.
      (2)   Required common open space. Required common open space shall be
dedicated to the borough, unless the Borough Council agree to accept a
dedication to any of the following: Northampton County; a homeowner or
condominium association; or an environmental organization acceptable to the
Borough Council. In the case of a rental development, the borough may permit
the common open space may be retained by the owner of the adjacent residential
buildings.
      (3)   Common open space owned by a homeowner association. If required
common open space is to the owned by a homeowner association, the developer
shall be required to establish such association in a form that requires all
property owners with the development to annually contribute to the maintenance
of the common open space. Any homeowner association agreements regarding
required common open space shall be subject to acceptance by the Borough
Council, based upon review by the Borough Solicitor. The provisions of § 703(f)
of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10703(f) should serve as a model
for such agreement.
      (4)   Deed restrictions. Any required common open space dedication shall
include deed restrictions to permanently prevent its development for buildings,
except buildings for noncommercial recreation or to support maintenance of the
land.
      (5)   Priority. Priority shall be given to dedication of land that would
be suitable for:
         (a)   New neighborhood parks in neighborhoods not currently served by
existing parks; or
         (b)   Would preserve woods, steep slopes or other important natural
features or land along the Bushkill creek.
      (6)   Lands not suitable. Land that is not suitable for active or passive
recreation shall not be accepted as part of a required dedication, including
areas within a stormwater detention basin that could not serve recreation
purposes. Portions intended for active recreation shall be well drained, of
less than 4% average slope and not require filling in of a wetland for use.
      (7)   Common open space within a subdivision or land development. Common
open space within a subdivision or land development shall be contiguous, except
as may be specifically exempted by the Borough Council, and shall have adequate
access for maintenance and for pedestrians.
      (8)   Other ordinances. Any required land dedication under this section
shall be in addition to any land dedication or improvement requirements of any
other borough ordinance or resolution.
      (9)   Lands close to buildings.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, no land shall be used to meet
the minimum common open space requirements of this section if such land is
within:
            1.   Fifteen feet of any building; or
            2.   Within 15 feet of a parking area of more than six parking
spaces (other than parking areas specifically developed to serve the open
space).
         (b)   This specifically includes, but is not limited to, open space
surrounding buildings in a development of apartments or townhouses.
      (10)   Residual lands. If only a portion of a larger tract of land is
currently proposed to be subdivided, or the applicant owns one or more adjacent
tracts that are not currently proposed to be subdivided, the applicant shall
provide a sketch of a possible future land dedication on these adjacent lands
in case they would be developed in the future.
      (11)   Coordination with future adjacent dedication. The Borough Council
may require that a required land dedication within a property currently being
subdivided be placed along an edge of the property so that it may, in the
future, be combined with an open space dedication on the edge of an adjoining
property when that adjoining property is subdivided or developed.
   (H)   Combination of land and fees. Upon mutual agreement of the Borough
Council and the applicant, the borough may accept a combination of common open
space and fees-in-lieu of land to meet the requirements of this section for a
residential subdivision or land development. This combination shall be based
upon the common open space requirement applying for a certain of dwelling units
and the fee-in-lieu of land requirement applying for the remaining number of
dwelling units.
   (I)   Timing of fees. Fees required under this section shall be paid prior
to the recording of the final plan, except as follows.
      (1)   If the required fee would be greater than $2,000, and the applicant
and the borough mutually agree to provisions in a binding development agreement
to require the payment of all applicable recreation fees prior to the issuance
of any building permits within each clearly defined phase of the development,
then the fees are not required to be paid prior to recording of the final plan
but may instead be paid within the development agreement requirements.
      (2)   If the applicant agrees to pay such fees in installments, then all
such fees shall not be considered to be “paid” for the purposes of any
applicable time limitations for utilization under the Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. until all such fees are paid in full, including
all installments and phases.
   (J)   Fee modification process. An applicant may seek a modification of the
requirements of this section under the procedures of §
154.007 by offering to construct substantial permanent recreation facilities
within the proposed subdivision or land development or on adjacent public open
space that the applicant clearly proves to the satisfaction of the Borough
Council will substantially meet the recreation needs of the residents of the
development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992; Res. 2003-05, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 154.162 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Stormwater runoff from any subdivision or land development
(including during construction and earthmoving) shall not occur at a peak rate
(measured in cubic feet per second) that is greater after development than
occurred prior to development.
      (2)   Control of runoff from a site shall occur using appropriate means
of detention of the water on the site and/or other approved types of stormwater
management, within the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Runoff that is detained shall be held and released at a
predetermined controlled rate by appropriately installed devices. The release
shall be in the same manner as the natural or predevelopment means of discharge
from a site (such as point discharge or sheet flow).
      (4)   Stormwater runoff shall not be increased or redirected in such a
way that it results in hazards to persons or property or interferes with the
normal movement of vehicles.
      (5)   All stormwater management methods are subject to approval by the
Borough Engineer.
      (6)   Stormwater shall be directed away from buildings and on-lot septic
systems.
      (7)   All stormwater management plans shall take into account and provide
for existing flow from upstream areas within the entire watershed.
      (8)   The existing points of natural drainage discharge onto adjacent
property shall not be altered nor shall the concentration of water runoff be
increased because of development without the written approval of all affected
landowners.
      (9)   No stormwater runoff or natural drainage water shall be so diverted
as to overload existing drainage systems, or create flooding or the need for
additional drainage structures on other private properties or public lands,
without complete approval of provisions being made by the developer for
properly handling such conditions, including water runoff impoundments, if
necessary.
      (10)   All lots shall be laid out and graded to prevent cross lot
drainage, to provide positive drainage away from proposed building locations
and any primary or alternate septic system locations.
      (11)   An adequate storm sewer system consisting of inlets and other
underground drainage structures with approved outlets shall be constructed
where the runoff of stormwater and the prevention of erosion cannot be
accomplished satisfactorily by surface drainage facilities, as determined by
the Borough Council, based upon the recommendation of the Borough Engineer.
      (12)   Outlet locations shall be approved by the Borough Engineer.
      (13)   Sequence of construction: no substantial grading shall occur and
no building permits shall be issued for any building unless any detention
basin, siltation basin or improved major swale approved to handle the resulting
runoff is in place. Any detention basin shall be seeded and stabilized and have
an installed outlet structure prior to the construction of any streets or
buildings within that drainage basin.
   (B)   Calculations of stormwater runoff.
      (1)   Stormwater calculations shall be submitted in a clear and legible
manner for any lot or tract that would result in more than 5,000 square feet of
total impervious cover.
      (2)   (a)   These calculations shall follow a method preapproved by and
acceptable to the Borough Engineer.
         (b)   The following methods are recommended:
            1.   Rational Method; and
            2.   Soil cover complex method. See U.S. Soil Conservation Service
Technical Release No. 55 Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds.
      (3)   Rainfall data shall be from PennDOT, for the Lehigh Valley.
      (4)   The stormwater calculations shall include the following:
         (a)   Pre- and post-development drainage maps showing existing and
proposed grades and including any off-site tributary area;
         (b)   Pre- and post-development runoff calculations;
         (c)   Detention basin design calculations (as applicable);
         (d)   Pipe and swale sizing calculations;
         (e)   All other information that is needed to construct proposed
stormwater drainage facilities, including, but not limited to, slopes, proposed
elevations, typical cross-sections and details;
         (f)   Such information as the Borough Engineer determines is needed to
determine compliance with this chapter; and
         (g)   If the development occurs in phases, the entire system shall be
shown.
      (5)   Where crop farming or disturbed earth exists on the site prior to
development, meadow in good condition shall be used as the starting base for
the calculation.
   (C)   Design storms. The following shall apply unless superceded by PennDOT
or other stricter standards.
      (1)   At a minimum, the applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the
Borough Engineer that no increase in peak stormwater discharge will leave the
tract during earthmoving, construction or after development than occurred prior
to any of these activities, under the following conditions and storm
frequencies (considered individually), unless any more restrictive requirements
of an applicable official stormwater management plan adopted by DEP and the
county pursuant to the Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq., as
amended:
         (a)   Two-year storm;
         (b)   Five-year storm;
         (c)   Ten-year storm;
         (d)   Twenty-five-year storm;
         (e)   Fifty-year storm;
         (f)   One hundred-year storm; and
         (g)   If using the SCS calculation method, a 24-hour Type II storm
shall be used in the calculations required by this division (C)(1).
      (2)   Storm sewer piping, roadside swales and inlet systems shall be
designed for a 25-year storm. A 24-hour Type II rainfall shall be used if using
the soil complex method. The openings of culverts and under bridges shall be
designed for a 50-year, 24-hour type II rainfall (except within the 100- year
floodplain). Bridges shall be designed with one foot of freeboard.
      (3)   Within the 100-year floodplain, any stormwater management
structures and systems shall be designed to handle a 100-year storm. A 24-hour
Type II storm shall be used if using the soil complex method.
      (4)   The stormwater management plan shall show that a 100-year, 24-hour
storm can be safely conveyed without jeopardizing any principal building on or
adjacent to of the site.
   (D)   Design submission.
      (1)   All plans showing the proposed storm drainage construction must be
accompanied by a complete design stamped and signed by a state registered
engineer or registered landscape architect.
      (2)   When subdivisions or land developments are submitted to the borough
for approval in sections, a complete general storm sewer design for the
proposed subdivision or land development shall be submitted at the preliminary
plan level. The proposed design must take into account the entire tract and the
watershed.
      (3)   All stormwater controls shall be designed to function adequately
after the completion of each phase of a development. This may require the use
of temporary structures, which shall be shown on submitted plans.
      (4)   A development shall be required to include the construction of
stormwater controls in areas of future phases of a development prior to
construction of earlier phases if the Borough Engineer determines that that is
necessary to make sure that the system will work after the completion of each
phase. This shall, for example, include the extension of the main outfall line.
      (5)   A set of approved design plans shall be maintained on file at the
site during construction.
      (6)   Drainage structures that are located on state highway rights-of-way
shall be found to be acceptable to PennDOT, and PennDOT approval shall be a
condition of any final approval of the borough.
      (7)   Submission requirements: the submission requirements for stormwater
management plans for preliminary and final plans within §§
154.075 through
154.078 and
154.090 through
154.093 shall apply to all required submissions under this section.
   (E)   County watershed plans. For areas of a development that are located
within a watershed for which a stormwater management plan has been adopted by
DEP and the county (pursuant to the State Stormwater Management Act), the
county plan shall supercede any conflicting parts of this section. This
specifically includes reconsideration of detention of stormwater where the
county plan so recommends.
   (F)   Joint storm drainage facilities.
      (1)   Stormwater management facilities may be planned and constructed in
coordination by two or more developments, provided that all other parts of this
section are complied with and a process to ensure maintenance is established
that is acceptable to the Borough Council.
      (2)   The borough may require a development to contribute its fair share
of the costs of a comprehensive regional or subregional stormwater system in
place of requiring an on-site detention basin.
   (G)   Methods of detention and flow delay.
      (1)   The following methods of detention or flow-delay devices may be
found to be acceptable by the Borough Engineer:
         (a)   Wet or dry ponds and detention basins;
         (b)   Roof storage and increased roof roughness;
         (c)   Parking lot detention;
         (d)   Infiltration trenches;
         (e)   Porous pavements, grassed channels and vegetated strips;
         (f)   Cisterns, underground reservoirs or covered ponds;
         (g)   Increasing the roughness coefficients on the development’s
surface area;
         (h)   Decrease percentage of impervious area;
         (i)   Groundwater recharge;
         (j)   Routing flow over lawns in swales within stormwater easements;
         (k)   Detention storage within the storm sewer; and
         (l)   Another method that may be approved by the Borough Engineer.
   (H)   Rooftop storage. If a roof is to be used for detention, a condition of
such use shall be that the applicant submit appropriate calculations and a
signed statement from a registered architect or registered engineer that the
structure will be able to support the roof loadings. This statement shall be
required prior to issuance of the building permit.
   (I)   Parking lot storage. A maximum of 30% of paved parking lot may be
found acceptable as a stormwater detention but not retention facility. Ponding
shall be arranged so that pedestrians may cross the parking lot relatively
dryly. There shall be a maximum designed depth of six inches, and the pavement
shall be designed to withstand the effects of ponded water. The area used for
the storage shall be the least used portions of the parking.
   (J)   Groundwater recharge. In general, all runoff control measures shall be
designed to encourage groundwater recharge, if suitable subsurface conditions
are present. However, in any such recharge, proper precautions shall be taken
to prevent pollution of the groundwater, prevent the formation of sinkholes and
to promote safety.
   (K)   Detention basins standards.
      (1)   Generally. For the purpose of this section, a retention basin shall
be required to meet the same standards as a detention basin.
      (2)   Emergency spillways. All detention basins shall be designed with an
emergency spillway.
         (a)   These spillways at a minimum shall be able to handle a 100-year
post-development peak discharge.
         (b)   Whenever possible, the emergency spillway for detention basins
shall be constructed on undisturbed ground. If the emergency spillway cannot be
constructed on undisturbed ground, it shall be constructed of suitable material
adequately compacted in accordance with specifications preapproved by the
Borough Engineer.
         (c)   Emergency spillways shall be constructed of reinforced concrete,
vegetated earth or concrete rubble. All emergency spillways shall be
constructed so that the detention basin berm is protected against erosion.
         (d)   The emergency spillway shall be a minimum of two feet below the
adjacent berm elevation. The emergency spillway shall convey the 100-year storm
at a maximum depth of one foot over spillway. The downstream slope of the
spillway shall as a minimum extend to the toe of the berm embankment. The edge
of the basin grading shall be within the subject property.
         (e)   All detention basin outflow structures shall be designed with
trash racks over the outflows.
      (3)   Slope of detention basin embankment. The maximum inside slope of
earthen detention basin embankments shall be four horizontal to one vertical.
The maximum outside slope shall be three to one. The top or toe of any slope
shall be located a minimum of five feet from any property line. Whenever
possible the side slopes and basin shape shall be amenable to the natural
topography. Straight side slopes are prohibited.
      (4)   Width of berm. The minimum top width of detention basin berms shall
be ten feet, unless the Borough Engineer determines that a greater width is
needed for maintenance and/or structural purposes.
      (5)   Slope of basin bottom. In order to ensure proper drainage of the
detention basin, a minimum grade of 2% shall be maintained for all sheet flow.
A minimum grade of 1% shall be maintained for all channel flow, provided that a
synthetic low flow channel of suitable materials is provided.
      (6)   Antiseep collars. Antiseep collars shall be installed around the
principal pipe barrel within the normal saturation zone of the detention basin
berms. Antiseep collars shall not be required on basins designed to have a
depth of water of less than three feet. The antiseep collars and their
connections to the pipe barrel shall be watertight. The antiseep collars shall
extend a minimum of two feet beyond the outside of the principal pipe barrel.
The maximum spacing between collars shall be ten times the minimum projection
of the collar measured perpendicular to the pipe.
      (7)   Fencing.
         (a)   A detention basin shall be required to be surrounded with
galvanized vinyl clad chain link metal fencing or an alternative type of fence
acceptable to the borough if any of the conditions are present:
            1.   The maximum depth of water in the basin after a ten- or 25-
year storm is greater than 30 inches;
            2.   The basin is intended to hold water for periods of longer than
three hours after the rainfall subsides; and
            3.   The basin is to be dedicated to the borough and the Borough
Council request fencing.
         (b)   Fencing of a detention basin under division (K)(7)(a) above
shall not be required if the nearest residential district, school, existing
residence or recreation facility is at least 1,500 feet away in walking
distance from the basin.
      (8)   Landscaped screening of detention basins.
         (a)   A detention basin shall be screened from view of existing
residences, a residential zoning district or a public street, unless the basin
would meet all of the following conditions:
            1.   It would have an average inside slope of less than four to one
on the inside of the basin;
            2.   Either:
               a.   The inside and outside of the berm of the basin would be
mowed grass or other attractive vegetative ground cover; or
               b.   The basin would be designed to closely resemble a natural
pond.
            3.   It would not be surrounded by a primarily metal fence.
         (b)   Any required screening shall meet the “buffer yard” standards of
the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). This landscaping is not required where
natural vegetation. that will completely fulfill this purpose will be
maintained.
      (9)   Multiple basins. The use of multiple detention basins should be
investigated over the use of one larger storage facility.
      (10)   Outflow structures. All outflow structures from storage facilities
shall be equipped with a regulatory device that will permit modification to
regulate the amount of out-flow. Suitable anti-vortex and/or velocity retarders
shall be used.
      (11)   Outflow control structure. An outflow control structure shall be
provided at the outlet of all detention basins. This structure shall be
constructed of metal or concrete and shall be designed so that the rate of
outflow is controlled by the pipe barrel through the basin berm when the depth
of water within the basin exceeds the height of the structure. A trash rack or
similar device shall be provided to prevent debris from entering the outflow
structure. The crest elevation shall be set at a minimum of 12 inches below the
emergency spillway.
      (12)   Retention basins. Aeration devices may be required, dependent upon
the quality of the influent and detention time.
      (13)   Recreation. When reasonable, efforts should be made to allow
suitable recreational uses of portions of detention areas. This might include
designing a detention basin so that only a portion would be wet after a minor
storm, and the remainder would be well-drained during all except the most
serious storms. These areas may be acceptable at the discretion of the borough
as part of any recreation land that may be required under this chapter.
      (14)   Placement. Detention basins shall not be placed within:
         (a)   An existing sinkhole;
         (b)   A location likely to be highly vulnerable to sinkholes; or
         (c)   Distinct topographic depression within a carbonate geology area,
without a suitable liner or other engineering measures acceptable to Borough
Council, based upon advice of the Borough Engineer.
   (L)   Construction standards. Construction and materials of storm drainage
and control facilities (including pipes) and erosion control facilities shall
be in accordance with the approved plans and any accompanying specifications.
The construction details and standards of the following publications, or their
sucessor publications, in their most recent revision shall be used:
      (1)   County Erosion and Sedimentation Control Handbook;
      (2)   PennDOT, Form 408, Specifications;
      (3)   PennDOT, RC Series, Roadway Construction Standards; and
      (4)   In cases where the above documents and/or borough specifications
conflict, the more restrictive shall apply, except in areas of PennDOT
jurisdiction.
   (M)   Storm sewers.
      (1)   The construction of new storm sewers or the connection into
acceptable existing storm sewers shall be required or allowed by the Borough
Council if the Borough Council determines on the basis of the recommendation of
the Borough Engineer that this is the most feasible and reasonable option.
      (2)   Any storm sewers shall be constructed to borough specifications and
shall not interconnect with sanitary sewers.
   (N)   Drainage pipe, culvert and catch basin design.
      (1)   Minimum diameter. The minimum diameter of any cross drainage or
culvert pipe shall be 15 inches.
      (2)   Open pipe ends. Open pipe ends shall be fitted with concrete end
walls, prefabricated end sections, rip-rap and/or energy disappators, as deemed
appropriate by the Borough Engineer.
      (3)   Drainage pipes. Drainage pipes shall have a minimum slope of 0.5%
and drainage swales and gutters 2.0%. As a minimum, the tops of all pipes
should be at the same elevation when changing pipe sizes.
      (4)   Manholes. Manholes or inlets shall be used at all changes in
horizontal alignment, at changes of vertical grade and at all pipe
intersections. No run of pipe shall exceed 400 feet in length, without
appropriate measures to allow cleanout. Trash racks shall be placed on all
stormwater entrance structures.
      (5)   Bridges and culverts. Bridges and culverts shall meet PennDOT
construction standards. DEP shall be contacted to determine if a dams and
waterways permit is required.
      (6)   Grating. Appropriate safety grates shall be attached to all catch
basins, stormwater inlets, pipe openings and other stormwater receiving
structures, as needed, to ensure that maximum openings do not exceed 25 square
inches. Along streets and pedestrian areas, bicycle safe grates shall be used
as needed.
      (7)   Storm sewer outfall. Storm sewer outfalls shall be designed, with
respect to the elevation of the invert or other features, that when the
receiving watercourse is within a 25-year storm, the storm sewer will continue
to drain the area it is designed to serve.
      (8)   Parallel ditches, swales and inlet spacing.
         (a)   To minimize sheet flow of stormwater across lots located on the
lower side of streets, and to divert flow away from building areas, the cross-
section of the street as constructed shall provide for parallel ditches or
swales or curbing on the lower side which shall discharge only at drainage
easements.
         (b)   Inlet spacing shall be designed such that in a 25-year storm,
one traffic lane of at least ten feet in width shall be free from stormwater.
   (O)   Stormwater easements. See also §
154.165.
      (1)   Where a subdivision or development is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream that the Borough Engineer determines is subject
to significant stormwater flows, a drainage easement shall be provided along
the following:
         (a)   The 100-year floodway where that is defined;
         (b)   Where a 100-year floodway is not defined, the 100-year
floodplain; and
         (c)   Where the 100-year floodplain is not defined, a 20 feet width
shall be used on either side of the center of the watercourse, unless the
Borough Engineer requires or permits a differing width.
      (2)   The drainage easements required by this section are intended to
preserve the unimpeded flow of natural drainage and to provide for future
possible widening, deepening, relocating, improving or protecting of such
drainage facilities. The Borough Engineer may require up to one-half-foot
freeboard if deemed necessary along newly constructed watercourses.
      (3)   Structures and other obstructions to flow (except fences made of
materials and placed so as to not obstruct flow) shall be prohibited within
stormwater easements. Such easements shall grant the borough the right to enter
the easement to accomplish maintenance work, although the borough assumes no
responsibility for such work.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain all
stormwater easements on, over or through other properties that are needed to
carry out the proposed storm management plan.
      (5)   Areas where stormwater easements have or will be granted shall not
be obstructed during or after construction.
   (P)   Surface waters.
      (1)   Generally. All natural streams, channels, swales, drainage systems
and/or areas of concentration of surface water shall be maintained in their
existing condition unless alteration is approved by the Borough Engineer. The
applicant shall be responsible to obtain all necessary DEP permits (see 25 Pa.
Code Chapter 105).
      (2)   Creek alignments. Any change to the alignment of a watercourse, or
any blocking, impeding or redirecting of a watercourse shall only occur with
written approval of DEP and the Borough Engineer.
   (Q)   Ownership and maintenance of stormwater facilities. A system for the
ownership and maintenance responsibilities of all temporary and permanent
stormwater facilities and erosion and sedimentation control facilities that is
satisfactory to the Borough Council shall be established prior to final plan
approval including:
      (1)   Description of temporary and permanent maintenance requirements;
      (2)   Identification of responsible individual, corporation, association
or other entity for ownership and maintenance of both temporary and permanent
stormwater management and erosion and sedimentation control facilities;
      (3)   Establishment of suitable easements for access to all facilities;
      (4)   Where the grading and storm drainage plan proposes borough
ownership and/or maintenance, a description of the methods, procedures and the
extent to which any facilities shall be turned over to the borough, including a
written approval and agreement from the borough indicating acceptance of
responsibilities as proposed, shall be incorporated as an integral part of the
plan;
      (5)   (a)   The borough may, at the complete discretion of the Borough
Council, accept or not accept an offer by the applicant for borough ownership
of stormwater facilities; and
         (b)   If the borough accepts ownership and maintenance
responsibilities for stormwater facilities, the applicant shall be required by
the Borough Council to fund a dedicated account to fund the first 25 years of
such maintenance. This funding shall be based upon a reasonable estimate by the
borough staff or the Borough Engineer.
      (6)   Stormwater facilities shall be designed to require minimal
maintenance and shall have suitable access for maintenance;
      (7)   All storm drainage facilities shall be properly maintained by the
party designated as responsible on the final subdivision plan, unless the
Borough Council agree to accept a change in the party responsible or the party
owning the facility;
      (8)   Should a facility not be maintained in proper working order, the
Borough Council, may after due notice to the responsible party, arrange for the
needed maintenance to be accomplished with all such expenses charged to the
responsible party. These expenses shall be collectible as municipal claims are
now collected by law; and
      (9)   The Borough Engineer and Code Enforcement staff shall have the
right to enter private property to inspect storm drainage facilities.
Reasonable effort should be made to contact the property owner prior to any
such inspection.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.163 SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   All subdivisions and land developments shall be served with an
adequate sewage disposal system (either on-lot or central systems) that will
meet state regulations.
      (2)   Any principal building or use within a subdivision or land
development that generates wastewater and that in the determination of the
Borough Council, based upon the advice of any applicable municipal authority
and the Borough Engineer, could reasonably connect into a public sanitary
sewage system shall be required to connect into that system. The applicant
shall be responsible to pay such reasonable capital expenses that are necessary
for such connection.
   (B)   Central sewage systems.
      (1)   If a municipality or municipal authority is to provide central
sewage service, it shall have the authority to approve or reject the proposed
sewage collection system.
      (2)   If non-public central sewage service is proposed, the Board of
Supervisors shall have the authority to permit or not permit such service to be
used to meet the requirements of this section based upon:
         (a)   Whether public sewage service is reasonably expected to be
available to the site in the foreseeable future;
         (b)   Whether the proposed system would be consistent with the
borough’s official sewage facilities plan; and
         (c)   Whether the system would include an acceptable permanent system
to ensure proper operation and maintenance.
   (C)   On-lot sewage disposal system.
      (1)   If connection to a public sanitary sewage system is not required at
the time of occupancy, and if an alternative central sewage system is not
approved by the borough under the borough sewage facilities plan, then each lot
shall be required to be served by an on-lot sewage disposal system that will
meet all applicable state regulations. Each such proposed location shall be
tested and approved by Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer, prior to approval of
the final plan. The approved test locations shall be shown on the final plan.
      (2)   Any use with an on-lot septic system and that does not have capped
sewers shall include a suitable land area set aside in open space for a second
septic system that could be used if the first system fails. Such site shall be
tested and approved by the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer prior to final
plan approval.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit results or a summary of the tests of
required on-lot septic tests at the time of final plan review.
      (4)   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer may require that the lot
area(s) be increased in accordance with state septic regulations.
   (D)   Sewer connection and capped sewers. If sewage service will not be
accessible at the time of the development of the land development or
subdivision, but is planned to be accessible within three years of the final
approval, the Borough Council may require that the subdivider install approved
capped sewer lines within the limits of the land development or subdivision, in
addition to approved on-site sewage facilities. Such sewer lines shall be
capped at the limits of the subdivision or land development and the laterals
shall be capped at the street right-of-way.
   (E)   Laterals. Each lot with central sewage service shall be served by a
separate sewage lateral.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.164 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   All subdivisions and land developments shall be served with an
adequate on-lot or central water supply system that will meet DEP and borough
requirements. Any non-public water supply system serving three or more
principal users or lots shall be required to provide adequate water pressure,
in the determination of the borough.
      (2)   The Borough Council, based upon any recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the Borough Engineer and the appropriate water supplier, shall
require all lots and principal uses within a subdivision or land development to
be connected to the central water system where the Borough Council determines
that such connection would be feasible and reasonable.
   (B)   Central water supply system. Proposed extensions of central water
systems shall meet all applicable procedures, reviews and requirements of the
appropriate municipal authority or public utility. The design of such system
shall be approved by the authority or utility prior to final plan approval,
although specific detailed water service agreements are not required to be
signed prior to final plan approval.
   (C)   On-lot water supply system.
      (1)   When a subdivision or land development is not required to connect
to a central water system, acceptable locations for on-lot water systems shall
be shown on plans and shall be constructed in accordance with regulations of
DEP.
      (2)   Wells should be located no closer than 25 feet from any future
street right-of-way.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. All subdivisions and land developments that will be
served by public water service shall provide fire hydrants as needed with
appropriate water pressure so that all dwelling units and principal buildings
are within 600 feet of an active fire hydrant.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.165 WASTE DUMPSTERS, MISCELLANEOUS UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   All electric power, telephone, cable television, natural gas and other
utilities shall be placed underground except where the Borough Council
determines it not feasible, and in accordance with the current standards of the
utility serving the subdivision or development.
   (B)   All garden apartment developments shall include conveniently located
refuse collection facilities for the residents. All uses within nonresidential
land developments and subdivisions shall include appropriate refuse collection
facilities. All bulk refuse collection dumpsters shall be screened on three of
four sides by walls or evergreen landscaping from view of dwellings, adjacent
residentially zoned lots and public streets.
   (C)   Easements shall be shown on the final plans and be provided as
follows.
      (1)   Unless waived by the Borough Engineer, all lots shall include a
drainage and utility easement around the perimeter of each lot. The minimum
width for easements shall be 20 feet, which may be reduced to ten feet for each
lot if a ten feet minimum easement already exists on the abutting side of the
abutting lot.
      (2)   (a)   Additional width of easements shall be provided for
additional utilities if required by the water or sanitary sewage supplier or
the Board of Supervisors.
         (b)   The easement widths along side lot lines shall:
            1.   Not be required along lotlines where buildings (such as
townhouses) are to be attached; and
            2.   Shall be reduced if the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted
by reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances) allows a principal
building setback that is more narrow than the width of the easement that would
otherwise be required.
      (3)   Minimum separation distances between utility lines shall be as
required by the applicable utility or as deemed necessary by the Board of
Supervisors, based upon advice of the Borough Engineer.
      (4)   Utility and drainage easements shall be placed along lot lines or
street rights-of-way whenever reasonable, as opposed to within the center of a
lot.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.166 ACCESS DRIVES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Construction standards for access drives. See §
154.158.
   (B)   Access. A state highway occupancy permit is required for all access
drives or driveways onto a state road.
   (C)   Location. The minimum distance between an access drive or driveway to
a street intersection shall be as follows:
 
Type of Subdivision or Land Distance Between Centerlines of Access Drive or
Development                 Driveway and Nearest Intersection Street By Type of
                            Intersecting Street
                            Arterial Collector   Local
Nonresidential or mixed     300 feet 200 feet    150 feet
Residential: other than
single-family detached      150 feet 75 feet     50 feet
dwellings and garden
apartments
Residential: single-family  150 feet 100 feet  75 feet
detached dwelling
 
   (D)   Sightlines at intersections of driveways or access drives with
streets. See the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (E)   Grades. Grades of access drives or driveways shall not exceed 12% when
connecting to a local or collector street and 7% when connecting onto an
arterial street; however, the initial 20 feet from the edge of the cartway
shall not exceed 7%, except for an arterial street shall not exceed 4%.
   (F)   Drainage. The developer shall make adequate provisions to maintain
uninterrupted parallel drainage along a public street where intersected by an
access drive or driveway. Access drives and aisles within parking lots shall be
graded and drained to keep the primary travel lane free of stormwater.
   (G)   Driveway setbacks. A driveway or accessway shall be setback a minimum
of five feet from the lot line of any abutting single-family detached dwelling,
unless the lots share an approved driveway.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.167 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   See the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.168 SIDEWALKS, PATHWAYS AND DRIVEWAY APRONS.
   (A)   Generally. Sidewalks built to borough specifications shall be required
along all arterial and collector streets except where Borough Council deems
they are not necessary for adequate and safe pedestrian movement or that they
would be impractical to construct along a reasonable length of street.
   (B)   Pathway or bikeway.
      (1)   If deemed necessary for the convenient and safe circulation of
bicycles and pedestrians, the Borough Council, upon the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, may require that a major subdivision or land development
include the granting of an easement for a pathway or bikeway.
      (2)   A bikeway or pathway may be required to have a width of up to eight
feet and may be required to be illuminated and/or paved to borough standards.
      (3)   A bikeway or pathway may be included within the required minimum
area of an abutting lot.
   (C)   Location and width.
      (1)   Sidewalks, where required or provided, shall be located within the
legal right-of-way line of a street.
      (2)   The sidewalks shall be constructed to retain a grass planting strip
with a minimum width of three feet between the curb and sidewalk. This strip
shall not be paved except at driveway entrances.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet along arterial
streets and four feet along collector or local streets.
      (4)   Pathways shall be a minimum width of four feet.
   (D)   Construction.
      (1)   Sidewalks at locations other than driveway crossings shall consist
of a minimum of four inches of portland cement concrete underlain with a
minimum of three inches of compacted gravel or crushed stone.
      (2)   Sidewalks at driveway crossings shall consist of a minimum of six
inches wire mesh reinforced portland cement concrete underlain with a minimum
of four inches of compacted gravel or crushed stone.
      (3)   Pathways shall be constructed of one of the following, at a
minimum: four inches of portland cement concrete underlain by four inches of
compacted gravel or crushed stone; or two and one- half inches of bituminous
underlain by six inches of compacted gravel or crushed stone.
   (E)   Handicapped access. All sidewalks and curbs at the intersection of two
or more public streets shall include a sloped curb cut suitable for use by
wheelchairs.
   (F)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of adjacent landowners to
maintain sidewalks.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.169 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street lights shall be placed along streets within and abutting a
proposed subdivision or land development where the Borough Council deems them
necessary to provide safe traffic or pedestrian circulation. Street lights
should be provided at all street intersections, curves in streets and the more
isolated areas of a development.
   (B)   Such lights shall meet design standards established by the applicable
electric company.
   (C)   Where street lights are required on a public street, the developer
shall be responsible to complete or reimburse the reasonable costs of the
public utility for the installation of the street lights, including completing
all excavation.
   (D)   On all private streets, parking areas and other areas requiring
lighting, the developer shall provide the lighting systems. If within a
residential development, a system acceptable to the Borough Council shall be
established for the maintenance and funding of electricity for such lights.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.170 STREET NAMES.
   Street names are subject to the approval of the Borough Council and the
local postmaster, and shall continue the name of any street with the same or
similar alignment, and shall not duplicate or be closely similar to the name of
another street within the borough, the same five-digit zip code area or the
same area served by emergency services.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.171 REGULATORY SIGNS.
   The developer shall reimburse the borough for the costs of supplying and
installing needed traffic regulatory signs and street name identification
signs. All traffic regulatory signs shall meet current standards of PennDOT.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.172 LANDSCAPING AND STREET TREES.
   (A)   Street trees.
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)   Street trees are required to be planted under this section
within all land developments and major subdivisions.
         (b)   Street trees shall not be required for frontage along a
residential or agricultural lot of more than three acres.
            1.   Planning Commission approval. The Planning Commission may
approve other species of trees than those listed below if the applicant proves
to the satisfaction of either Commission that the trees would be sturdy,
attractive and resistant to disease and road salt.
            2.   Permitted species of trees.
               a.   Deciduous.
                  i.   Gleditsia triacanthos - Thornless Locust;
                  ii.   Acer rubrum - American Red Maple;
                  iii.   Acer saccharum - Sugar Maple;
                  iv.   Celtis occidentalis - Common Hackberry;
                  v.   Fagus sylvatica - European Beech;
                  vi.   Fraxinus Pennsylvania - Green Ash;
                  vii.   Fraxinus americana - White Ash;
                  viii.   Ginko biloba fastigiata - Maiden Hair Tree (male
only);
                  ix.   Liquidambar styraciflue - Sweet Gum;
                  x.   Liriodendron tulipifera - Tulip Poplar;
                  xi.   Quercus phellos - Willow Oak;
                  xii.   Quercus acutissima - Sawtooth Oak;
                  xiii.   Quercus imbricaria - Shingle Oak;
                  xiv.   Quercus borealis - Red Oak;
                  xv.   Quercus coccinea - Scarlet Oak;
                  xvi.   Sophora japonica - Chinese Scholar Tree;
                  xvii.   Quercus macrocarpa - Bur Oak;
                  xviii.   Quercus alba - White Oak;
                  xix.   Quercus montana - Chestnut Oak;
                  xx.   Quercus velutina - Black Oak;
                  xxi.   Tilia american - American Linden;
                  xxii.   Tilia petiolaris - Silver Linden;
                  xxiii.   Tilia euchlora - Crimean Linden;
                  xxiv.   Tilia cordata - Little Leaf European Linden; and
                  xv.   Zelkova serrata - Zelkova.
               b.   Evergreen.
                  i.   Ilex opaca - American Holly;
                  ii.   Picea abies - Norway Spruce;
                  iii.   Picea glauca - White Spruce;
                  iv.   Picea omorika - Serbian Spruce;
                  v.   Picea pungens - Colorado Spruce;
                  vi.   Pinus nigra - Austrian Pine;
                  vii.   Pinus strobus - White Pine;
                  viii.   Pinus thunbergi - Japanese Black Pine;
                  ix.   Pseudotsuga taxifolia - Douglas Fir;
                  x.   Tsuga canadensis - Canada Hemlock; and
                  xi.   Tsuga caroliniana - Carolina Hemlock.
      (2)   Quality of trees.
         (a)   Trees permitted shall be of symmetrical growth, free of insect
pests and disease, and durable under the maintenance contemplated.
         (b)   Trees which have died or have become diseased or pest-ridden
within 18 months from the time of planting shall be replaced by the developer.
      (3)   Minimum size. The trunk diameter (measured at a height of one foot
above the finished grade level) shall be a minimum of two inches.
      (4)   Planting and maintenance.
         (a)   Trees shall be planted and staked in conformance with good
landscaping practices.
         (b)   Trees adjacent to or within parking areas shall be properly
protected from damage by vehicles by raised curbs, similar devices or
sufficient setback.
         (c)   Required trees shall be properly maintained and shall not be
removed by the developer without being replaced by another tree that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (5)   Required number and spacing of street trees.
         (a)   Generally. Within and abutting all land developments and major
subdivisions, along any street (or any access drive serving more than one
commercial, industrial or institutional principal use), an average of one
deciduous street tree shall be required for every 50 feet of distance along the
street right-of-way line on each affected side of the street or access drive.
         (b)   Spacing.
            1.   The trees required under this section shall be spaced
throughout the development along streets, but are not required to be planted at
exact intervals and may be clustered following an approved plan.
            2.   Trees shall be located and trimmed so that they do not
restrict sight distance at driveway and street intersections.
      (6)   Location of street trees.
         (a)   The trunks of required street trees shall be planted within the
street right-of-way but at a minimum of:
            1.   Two feet from any established curb line; and
            2.   Six feet from the cartway if there is no curbing.
         (b)   Where trees are to be planted between the curb and the sidewalk,
special consideration shall be given to the species of trees that are planted.
      (7)   Other requirements. The street trees required under this section
shall be in addition to any trees required under other borough regulations,
including the parking lot landscaping requirements of the zoning ordinance (as
adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
      (8)   Credit for existing trees. If existing healthy street trees are to
be protected and preserved that would, in the determination of the Borough
Engineer, generally meet the intent and requirements of this section, they may
serve as a credit towards the number of street trees required to be planted.
   (B)   Ground cover.
      (1)   After completion of a project, all exposed ground surfaces that are
not paved within a subdivision or land development, and that are not covered by
approved gravel areas or decorative stones or similar material, shall be
covered by a natural ground cover that will prevent soil erosion and the
emanation of dust.
      (2)   The vegetative cover shall not be poisonous in nature.
   (C)   Buffer yards. See the requirements for buffer yards in the borough
zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.173 MONUMENTS AND LOT PINS.
   (A)   Monuments.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Permanent reference monuments shall be located at each
intersection of rights-of-way of street(s) constructed by the developer, at the
beginning and ending of all street curves, and at exterior corners of the
subdivision.
         (b)   With the approval of the Borough Engineer, the subdivider may
install monuments on only one side of the street provided that enough monuments
are set to permit a surveyor to stake out accurately any building lot shown on
the record plan.
      (2)   Type. Reference monuments shall be constructed of steel reinforced
portland cement concrete to the dimensions shown in the accompanying sketch or
another detail accepted by the Borough Engineer.
      (3)   Placement. Reference monuments shall be placed so that the top of
the monument is as shown in the accompanying sketch.
   (B)   Lot pins. All lot corner markers shall be permanently located and
shall be at least a three-fourths- inch metal pin or pipe with a minimum length
of 20 inches, located in the ground to existing grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f83e99443cb617866a1cf4e89072e250cecbca76/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1518.png]
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.174 CURBS.
   (A)   Curbs shall be provided along both sides of all public and private
streets where deemed by the Borough Council to be necessary.
   (B)   If curbs are waived, appropriate stabilized drainage channels designed
to handle a 25-year storm shall be required along all streets within the street
right-of-way.
   (C)   All required curbs shall meet the following specifications.
      (1)   Only straight curbs shall be provided. Such curbs shall be of
portland cement concrete and be 24 inches deep, six inches wide at the top,
eight inches wide at the bottom and have an exposed face between six and eight
inches. Such concrete shall meet the minimum 3,000 P.S.I. 28-day strength test
according to A.S.T.M. standards.
      (2)   Expansion joints shall be provided a minimum of every 30 feet. Each
expansion joint shall contain one-half-inch premolded bituminous expansion
joint materials. Contraction joints shall be provided a minimum of every ten
feet.
      (3)   Gutter design shall be subject to the approval of the Borough
Engineer based upon standard engineering practices.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
MOBILE HOME PARK DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.185 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements in this subchapter shall apply to a mobile home park,
as defined by the borough zoning ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   Mobile homes proposed to be developed on lots that are intended to be
individually sold on a fee-simple basis shall be designed in accordance with
all requirements set forth for single-family dwelling residential development.
   (C)   Every proposed mobile home park shall be submitted, reviewed, approved
and recorded as either a land development, at a minimum.
   (D)   The terms “mobile home” and “manufactured home” shall have the same
meaning.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.186 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless specifically stated otherwise, all provisions of this chapter shall
apply to a mobile home park.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.187 CONTENTS, SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF PLANS.
   The provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.062,
154.075 through
154.078,
154.090 through
154.093,
154.120 through
154.127 and
154.140 through
154.142 shall apply with respect to the contents, submission and review of
mobile home park plans.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.188 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   See the mobile home park provisions of the borough zoning ordinance
(as adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). Each unit shall comply with the
requirements for individual mobile homes in the borough zoning ordinance (as
adopted by reference in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
   (B)   All mobile homes sites within a mobile home park shall be located on
land with an average natural slope of less than 15%.
   (C)   The mobile home park shall have paved access to a paved public street.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.189 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Access. Access to individual mobile home spaces shall be from interior
parking courts, access drives or private streets and shall not be from public
streets exterior to the development. Streets within the development providing
access to 20 or more dwellings shall have a minimum paved cartway width of 26
feet, and other streets shall have a minimum paved cartway width of 20 feet.
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   Every mobile home space shall be provided with a minimum of two
paved off-street parking spaces. In addition, an average of one-half off-street
parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be provided in convenient locations for
visitor parking.
      (2)   Parking courts are encouraged to meet the off-street parking
requirements.
      (3)   An appropriate area shall be set aside for the parking of
recreational vehicles of residents.
   (C)   Other design standards and improvements.
      (1)   Every mobile home space shall be graded to provide a level, stable
and well-drained stand for the mobile home.
      (2)   Every space shall be provided with underground electric, telephone
and television cable (if available) service.
      (3)   All fuel storage and supply systems shall be constructed and
maintained in conformity with the regulations of all authorities having
jurisdiction, and if above ground shall adequately be screened with landscaping
or a screen wall compatible with the home.
      (4)   If mobile homes within a mobile home park are proposed within 150
feet of the lot line of an existing single-family detached house, then the
mobile home shall be separated from such single-family house by evergreen
screening meeting the buffer yard requirements of the borough zoning ordinance
(as adopted by reference in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances).
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
GRADING PLANS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS
§ 154.200 GRADING PLANS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   Prior to the granting of a building permit for a new principal
building or a parking area serving five or more vehicles, a grading plan shall
be provided to the Borough Zoning Officer.
   (B)   This plan at a minimum shall include the following:
      (1)   Sufficient grading information to show that the construction will
comply with any grading and stormwater drainage plan approved under this
chapter;
      (2)   Sufficient grading information, including the proposed first floor
elevation, to show that the lot will drain properly;
      (3)   If required by the Borough Engineer, sufficient information to show
that any fill on the site is made up of appropriate materials and will be
properly compacted and stabilized;
      (4)   If required by the Borough Engineer, an erosion and sedimentation
control plan for the individual lot, which shall comply with any erosion and
sedimentation plan that may have been approved for the subdivision; and
      (5)   The proposed locations of buildings, parking areas and driveways.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
SINKHOLE/CARBONATE REGULATIONS
§ 154.215 PURPOSE.
   The borough’s topography may be defined as a Karst topography due to the
presence of carbonate rock that generally consists of dolomite and limestone.
The limestone and dolomite are divided into formations. The carbonate
formations present in the borough consist of the Epler and Rickenbach
Formations. These formations are susceptible to the development of solution
cavities and sinkhole development. Therefore, anyone considering developing
property within the borough should be aware of the potential geological
hazards. The regulations contained herein are intended to minimize the risk of
sinkhole occurrence in areas of new development and on lands adjacent to these
developments.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.216 GOVERNANCE.
   The regulations established by this subchapter shall apply to all land
development or subdivision applications pertaining to commercial, governmental
(except those owned by the borough) and industrial/office structures, apartment
complexes and multiple single-family home developments with three or more lots.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.217 EXEMPTIONS.
   All single-family homes and the alteration of single-family homes to include
detached structures such as garages, barns and swimming pools shall be exempt
from the regulations established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.218 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARBONATE ROCK. Rock types that are affected by dissolution weathering
process caused by slightly acidic groundwater. The most common types of rock
that are categorized as carbonate rock are limestone (calcium carbonate) and
dolomite (calcium magnesium carbonate).
   CAVERN. Interconnected solution features within the bedrock surface.
   CLAY LINER. Fine grained soil that is used in the construction of a liner
that limits the rate of surface water intrusion into the subsurface.
   CLOSED DEPRESSION. A bowl-shaped depression in the land surface
characterized by internal drainage. A ghost lake is a closed depression which
has visible standing water after a heavy rainfall event.
   DISSOLUTION WEATHERING. The removal of soluble materials from intact
carbonate rock by slightly acidic groundwater.
   FAULT. A fracture in bedrock along which movement has taken place.
   FINE GRAINED SOIL. Materials that predominantly consist of silt and clay-
sized particles.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (CHEMICAL OR BIO-HAZARD). As defined and regulated by
the Pennsylvania DEP or EPA.
   IMPERMEABLE LINERS. A liner system that prohibits the infiltration or
surface water into the subsurface.
   KARST. The terrain that results from the dissolution of carbonate rock.
   KARST PROCESS. The dissolution of carbonate rock by slightly acidic
groundwater.
   LINEAMENTS. Aligned topographic features that locate faults and fractures.
   RESIDUAL SOIL. Soils derived from the in-place weathering of the underlying
bedrock.
   SINKHOLE. Localized land surface subsidence or collapse due to karst
processes. SINKHOLES are categorized as solution sinkholes, collapse sinkholes
and subsidence sinkholes.
   SPRING. Where water flows naturally out of the bedrock or the overlying soil
mantle onto the land surface.
   TOXIC AND/OR BIOLOGICAL OR CHEMICAL HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Biological species
or chemical compounds, which are deemed to be toxic or hazardous by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.219 SPECIFIC CARBONATE ORDINANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All of the following specific requirements shall apply to land
developments and/or subdivisions covered by this subchapter.
      (1)   No buildings, structures, stormwater management basins or
stormwater management infiltration areas shall be placed in or over the
following unremediated features in accordance with the terms of this
subchapter: sinkholes; closed depressions; lineaments; faults; or fracture
traces.
      (2)   Building structures, stormwater management basins and stormwater
management infiltration areas shall be located no closer than 100 feet from the
rim of unremediated sinkholes, or fracture traces, and no closer than 50 feet
from lineaments, faults or closed depressions.
      (3)   Outflow from a stormwater management basin and/or post development
stormwater flows shall not be directed to any of the following carbonate
features: sinkholes; closed depressions; lineaments; caverns; or fracture
traces.
      (4)   Lagoons containing substances defined as toxic and/or hazardous by
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection are not permitted.
      (5)   Storage and handling areas for hazardous materials must have
impermeable surfaces designed to contain materials stored/handled from which
they shall be directed to a predetermined collection point.
      (6)   The land application of hazardous materials is not permitted.
      (7)   The underground storage of any hazardous materials, except gasoline
and diesel fuel shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Groundwater monitoring devices, approved by the borough are
required for all facilities handling hazardous materials.
   (B)   The Borough Council shall not entertain requests for waivers from the
requirements listed above until a carbonate ordinance assessment report, as
required by this subchapter, has been supplied to the Planning Commission and
the Borough Engineer for their review and comment.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.220 CARBONATE ORDINANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT.
   (A)   All land developments and/or subdivisions covered by this subchapter
shall be evaluated by a licensed professional civil engineer with expertise in
geotechnical engineering or a licensed professional geologist, each of said
experts being licensed in their field of expertise by the commonwealth. A list
of the engineer’s/geologist’s qualifications shall be submitted to the borough
prior to the commencement of the site evaluation. The borough reserves the
right to reject any report that in its opinion was authored by an individual or
firm which does not possess the background to properly assess the site
conditions as they relate to this subchapter. Further, the carbonate ordinance
assessment report submitted to the borough must be signed by the licensed
professional civil engineer with expertise in geotechnical engineering and/or a
licensed professional geologist.
   (B)   The format and content of the carbonate ordinance assessment report
shall include, but not be limited to the following.
      (1)   Statement of purpose. This division (B)(1) shall indicate those
specific subchapter standards being addressed in the report and whether the
applicant is attempting to demonstrate compliance or justify noncompliance with
those specific subchapter standards.
      (2)   Description of existing conditions. This division (B)(2) shall
present a description of existing characteristics of the property with respect
to geology, topography, ground and surface water hydrology, soils, vegetation
and existing improvements and uses of property.
      (3)   Map. A map, at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet and
a contour interval of two feet indicating the location of the property and all
proposed improvements.
      (4)   Submission of information. The developer/applicant shall submit
information for the affected properties indicating the presence of any of the
following carbonate features: depressions; fissures; lineaments; faults; ghost
lakes; bedrock outcrops; sinkholes (on aerial photographs as an indication of
shallow weathered pinnacles); seasonal high water levels; soil mottling;
springs; surface drainage entering the ground; disappearing lakes or streams
and caverns; and fracture traces.
      (5)   Plan for repair or remediation. A recommended plan for the repair
or remediation of surface or subsurface features that may impact the proposed
development as well as the adjacent improved or unimproved properties.
      (6)   Basis of requested information. The information requested above
shall be based upon previously published data and field survey, including
aerial photographs; which may include test borings, excavation of test pits,
air-track probes and geophysical methods.
   (C)   In addition to the carbonate ordinance assessment report, the
developer shall also be required to provide the following information:
      (1)   A plan indicating the existing and proposed drainage conditions,
locations of all proposed private and public sewage disposal systems, and the
location of existing private and public water supplies on adjoining properties
(within 1,000 feet of applicant property);
      (2)   Type, location and phasing of proposed site disturbance and
construction, as well as proposed future ownership, utilization and maintenance
of the property and the proposed improvements;
      (3)   Proposed measures to control potential adverse environmental
impacts on groundwater quality and stormwater management resulting from the
development and utilization of the property; and
      (4)   Plans describing the design and construction of the proposed
stormwater management facilities proposed for the project. A description of the
minimum requirements are outlined below.
   (D)   Stormwater management.
      (1)   All submissions for proposed developments must include a stormwater
management plan prepared in accordance with adopted regulations and which
limits surface water runoff and the intrusion of concentrated flow of surface
water into the subsurface. Facilities that are required as part of the
stormwater management plan include the collection of all runoff from
commercial, office and industrial building roofs into storm drains by
watertight gasketed joint conduits or adequately lined drainage swales and the
collection of surface water flow on pavements into drop inlets connected to a
watertight gasketed joint stormwater conduit or adequate lined drainage swale.
The stormwater conduit must discharge into lined detention basins.
      (2)   Approved stormwater conduits include HDPE, PVC, concrete, steel and
cast iron pipe all with watertight rubber gaskets at each joint. The use of
corrugated metal pipe is not permitted. Construction of the piping system must
follow all other applicable ordinances. Where rock is encountered at or above
the planned conduit design grade, the rock shall be undercut and over excavated
a minimum of one foot and backfilled with a compacted fine-grained soil.
      (3)   All detention basins in areas of sinkhole prone soil shall be
lined. The liner used in a detention basin may consist of a clay liner, a
composite synthetic and soil liner or a synthetic liner. The type of liner
required shall depend on the condition of the detention basin bottom and the
probability of sinkhole occurrence resulting from the construction of the
detention basin. The use of low flow channel may also be required depending on
the duration and frequency of stormwater discharge into the detention basin.
Subsurface detention systems must be in leak proof tanks or piping. The Borough
Engineer shall make the final determination as to what is an acceptable form of
liner for the proposed detention basins.
   (E)   Additional items that must be included in the stormwater management
plan include details with regard to the sealing of all pavement curbs and
gutters, manholes and drop inlets.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.221 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Generally. The carbonate ordinance assessment report must be received
by the borough when a plan is submitted for preliminary land development or
subdivision approval. However, the report may be submitted at the time of
sketch plan review. Four copies of the report shall be submitted to the
borough. The report shall be reviewed by the Borough Engineer and other
consultants as designated by the borough. Based on this review, the borough may
require additional information to be submitted, if the borough concludes that
such information would be instrumental in assessing the proposed development as
it relates to this subchapter.
   (B)   Approvals required.
      (1)   Where compliance with this section is required as part of an
application for subdivision or land development approval, the borough’s
decision on whether compliance has been achieved shall be made as part of this
review of the subdivision or land development application.
      (2)   Where the application is part of a request for zoning permit, the
Zoning Officer shall issue no permit until he or she receives adequate written
substantiation from the appropriate designated experts referred to above, the
terms of this section and any conditions imposed upon the use of the property
at the time of subdivision or land development approval are satisfied.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 154.222 LIMITATIONS.
   In carbonate areas, alteration and development of land may be hazardous with
respect to foundation safety of structures, the creation of unstable land as a
result of changes in drainage, and the contamination of ground and surface
waters. Within the limitations of the information available at the time of the
review of individual applications, the borough shall attempt to make reasonable
judgments as to the applicant’s compliance with this subchapter. Under no
circumstances shall the borough or any officer or employee of the borough or
consultant to the borough assume any liability for any damages that may result
from an applicant’s or any interested party’s reliance upon the regulations of
this subchapter or any decisions made by the borough in the administration of
such regulations by an applicant, developer and/or any interested party.
(Ord. 214, passed 2-7-2005)
LICENSED CABLE OPERATORS
§ 154.235 EXTENDING LINES TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND/OR LAND DEVELOPMENTS.
   In extending lines to new subdivisions and/or land developments within the
borough, each cable operator shall accept from the developer only those
easements which provide non-exclusive rights to operate a cable system within
such subdivision and/or land development. No such easement shall prevent any
other cable operator authorized to operate within the borough, then or in the
future, from using such easement to extend other and further lines to such
subdivision and/or land development. In each new subdivision and each new land
development, the developer shall, upon notifying public utilities of the
opportunity to serve such subdivision or land development, shall also notify
all cable operators licensed to operate a cable system in the borough, of the
opportunity to install cable facilities to serve the subdivision or land
development. Each owner of a separate tract of land of record in such
subdivision or land development and all persons within the borough shall have
the right to freely choose any cable operator permitted in the borough to serve
such person with such cable operator’s cable system.
(Ord. 2004-212, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by a municipality, pay a judgement of not more
than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the borough as a result thereof and any closely related engineering fees
permitted to be recovered by law, unless a higher penalty is established under
state law. This shall include, but not be limited to, any person, partnership
or corporation that accomplishes any act listed under §
154.004 without following the procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt
the seller or transferor from such penalties or from the remedies herein
provided.
   (C)   See § 515.3, “Enforcement Remedies”, of the Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. § 515.3 regarding each day of violation being considered a
separate violation. See also the “Remedies” provisions of §
154.013(C).
   (D)   Actions to enforce this chapter shall be brought by the Borough
Council, or its authorized representatives. All fines collected for such
violations shall be paid over to the borough.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FORM
   Tatamy Borough
   Application Form for
   Subdivision or Land Development
   Tatamy Borough
   Application Form for
   Subdivision or Land Development
 
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
FILE NUMBER
                                                 
     New Submission          Resubmission
Date of Application                      (to be filled in by borough staff)
     Sketch Plan Review
     Preliminary Plan         Name of Development                                                               
     Final Plan
     Minor Subdivision      Location                                                                                  
     Resubdivision
     Boundary Line Adjustment
Landowner’s Name                                                                Telephone #                           
   Address                                                                                                                                      
Applicant’s Name                                                                  Telephone #                           
   Address                                                                                                                                      
Plan Preparer’s Name                                                             Telephone #                           
   Address                                                                                                                                      
Total Acreage               Number of Lots           
Water Supply: On lot well:                   Public:                   Other:                
Sewage System: Private (on lot):                   Public:                   Other:               
Submit three copies of this form to the borough staff. A copy will be receipted and returned to you.
Previous subdivision or construction on this tract within the past 5 years:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
Any relevant zoning variances/special exception approvals on this tract (and dates):
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                        
Application Fees Paid:   1.   Check to Tatamy Borough                                
               2.   Check to Joint Planning Commission                  
I HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE AND REQUEST REVIEW OF THIS APPLICATION
      Applicant’s Signature                                                                      
I hereby authorize the Planning Commissioners, Borough Council members, Borough Engineer, code enforcement staff and any borough wetlands consultant to
enter the exterior premises of this property, between 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. at their own risk, while this plan is being considered for approval, as
needed to determine compliance with borough ordinances (Optional)
      Applicant/Land Owner’s Signature                                                   
 
   (Lower Half of Page For Borough Use Only)
Initial Review Received From Borough Engineer:                  (check off)
Joint Planning Commission Review:   Date Sent to:                       
                  Date Review from:              
Final Action by Borough Planning Commission:   Date:                   
   Action Taken:                                                      
Final Action by Borough Council:   Date:                                 
   Action Taken:                                                                                   
Date Applicant Notified of Borough Council Final Action:                            
Borough Staff Initial Review Comments:                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
APPENDIX B: PLAN PREPARER AND OWNER’S STATEMENT AND APPROVAL BLOCKS
   (A)   Appendix B.1: plan preparer’s statements (model forms).
PLAN PREPARER’S STATEMENTS
   I,                             , a registered surveyor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, do hereby certify
that the plan, prepared from a field survey on,                            , 20      correctly represents the
property boundary of the proposed subdivision or land development.
                                                                             
   Date            Registered Surveyors’ Signature
   I,                                    , a registered surveyor, registered landscape architect or licensed
professional engineer in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, do hereby certify that the accompanying application,
plans and supporting documentation are true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge.
                                                                             
   Date            Plan Preparer’s Signature
                                                                                      
   Address            Printed Name
 
   (B)   Appendix B.2: owner’s statement (model form).
OWNER’S STATEMENT
   We, the owners of the land involving the accompanying plans, being duly
sworn according to law, state that we are the majority owners or are the
authorized officers of the corporation that are the majority owners of this
property in peaceful possession of it, and that there are no suits pending
affecting the title of same, and that we acknowledge and endorse the
accompanying plans and that we will propose a record plan for recording (as
applicable), after receiving all required municipal approvals.
                                                                   
   Owner’s or Authorized Corporate Officer’s Signatures
                                                                  
   Printed Name         Printed Name
   SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE THIS            DAY OF            , 20  .
                                                               
      NOTARY SEAL                  NOTARY PUBLIC
 
   (C)   Appendix B.3: approval/review block.
   REVIEWED BY THE JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                                                                          
   Joint Planning Commission Staff Person Responsible for Review   Date
   REVIEWED BY THE BOROUGH ENGINEER
                                                                                  
   Borough Engineer                         Date
   REVIEWED BY THE TATAMY BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                                                      
   Chair                     Secretary/Treasurer          Date
   APPROVED BY RESOLUTION OR MOTION OF THE TATAMY BOROUGH COUNCIL AND ACCEPTED FOR RECORDING
                                                                                         
   Chair                     Secretary/Treasurer             Date
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
APPENDIX C: OFFER/ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION
   (A)   Appendix C.1: offer of dedication (model form).
 
OFFER OF DEDICATION
The undersigned owner(s) offer to dedicate to the Tatamy Borough for public use and
ownership all street rights-of-way, utility easements and all public improvements to
be constructed within their limits and within any proposed public open spaces, as
shown and/or noted on the official approved final plans.
                                                                                     
Date      Signature of Owner         Signature of Owner
 
   (B)   Appendix C.2: acceptance of dedication plan notation (model form).
 
ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION PLAN NOTATION
THE BOROUGH COUNCIL OF TATAMY BOROUGH HEREBY ACCEPT THE STREET RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY INDICATED HEREON FOR
PUBLIC USE.
                                                                                                     
Chair, Borough Council      Borough Secretary/Treasurer      Date
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
APPENDIX D: IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT
IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT
This form is to be completed by the applicant’s engineer, and is subject to review and approval by the Borough Engineer.
Name of Development/Phase                                                                                                                         
Date of Final Plan Approval                                                                                                                         
Name of Applicant/Developer                                                                                                                      
Name, Address and Phone No. of Person Completing This Form                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                
Date of Completion of Form                                                                                                                        
Date of Review by Borough Engineer                                                                                                                 
I hereby recognize this estimate of the costs of the improvements of the development and agree to provide adequate financial security to the Borough of Tatamy
to ensure their completion.
                                                                                   
Signature of Applicant/Developer         Date
                                                                                                                                                              
TYPE OF IMPROVEMENT   # UNITS   COST PER UNIT       TOTAL COST
(Type “NA” if not applicable)                     (to nearest $)
STREETS:
GRADING/CLEARING:
STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS:
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION:
MONUMENTS:
 
                                                                                                                                                              
TYPE OF IMPROVEMENT   # UNITS   COST PER UNIT       TOTAL COST
(Type “NA” if not applicable)                     (to nearest $)
BUFFER PLANTINGS:
STREET AND REGULATORY SIGNS:
SANITARY SEWER:
CURBS AND SIDEWALKS:
STREET LIGHTS AND ELECTRIC/TELEPHONE TRENCHING:
CENTRAL WATER:
FIRE HYDRANTS:
SUB-TOTAL:
CONTINGENCIES:
TOTAL:
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-1992)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose and objectives
   
155.002   Application
   
155.003   Public utility exemptions
   
155.004   Authority exception
   
155.005   Interpretation
   
155.006   Severability
   
155.007   Repealer
   
155.008   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.020   Permits; general procedure
   
155.021   Permits and certificates
   
155.022   Zoning Officer
   
155.023   Amendments
   
155.024   Curative amendments
   
155.025   Filing fees and costs
   
155.026   Enforcement; violations; remedy
   
155.027   Conditional use process
   
155.028   Special exception use process
   
155.029   Liability
   
155.030   Site plan review for major uses not requiring conditional use,
subdivision or land development approval
   
155.031   Submission requirements for conditional uses and major uses requiring
site plan review
Zoning Hearing Board; Variances; Hearings and Appeals
   
155.045   Appointment
   
155.046   Vacancies
   
155.047   Member removal
   
155.048   Organization
   
155.049   Functions
   
155.050   Time limitation for appeals
   
155.051   Stay of proceedings
   
155.052   Time limitations on permits, variances
   
155.053   Hearings
   
155.054   Appeals
Districts and Permitted Uses
   
155.065   Districts designated
   
155.066   Application of district regulations
   
155.067   Zoning map; street classification maps
   
155.068   District boundaries
   
155.069   Setbacks across municipal boundaries
   
155.070   Table of permitted uses by district
   
155.071   Table of lot and setback requirements by district
   
155.072   Purpose of each zoning district
Overlay District Regulations
   
155.085   Title
   
155.086   Definitions
   
155.087   Purpose
   
155.088   Community development objectives
   
155.089   Applicability
   
155.090   Permitted uses by right
   
155.091   Prohibited uses
   
155.092   Area and bulk regulations
   
155.093   Building standards and orientation
   
155.094   Signs
   
155.095   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.096   Streetscape performance regulations
   
155.097   Traffic management
Main Street Commercial District
   
155.110   Title
   
155.111   Definitions
   
155.112   Purpose
   
155.113   Community development objectives
   
155.114   Applicability
   
155.115   Permitted uses by right
   
155.116   Area and bulk regulations
   
155.117   Building standards and orientation
   
155.118   Signs
   
155.119   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.120   Streetscape performance regulations
   
155.121   Traffic management
Additional Requirements for Specific Uses
   
155.135   Applicability
   
155.136   Specific principal uses
   
155.137   Accessory uses
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.150   Frontage onto improved streets; number of uses or buildings
   
155.151   Height exemption; airport approaches
   
155.152   Special lot and yard requirements, sight distance and buffer yards
   
155.153   Landscaping
   
155.154   Establishment of future street right-of-way widths
   
155.155   Non-conformities
   
155.156   Temporary structure or use
   
155.157   Storm water management and bonus for resolving existing problems
   
155.158   Recreation land and fee requirements
Environmental Protection
   
155.170   Environmental preservation required
   
155.171   Nuisances and hazards to public safety
   
155.172   Wetlands
   
155.173   Setbacks from surface waters
   
155.174   Floodplain areas
   
155.175   Storage of explosive and hazardous substances
   
155.176   Sewage disposal
   
155.177   Noise
   
155.178   Vibration
   
155.179   Odors and open burning
   
155.180   Light, glare and heat control
   
155.181   Placement, screening of waste containers; required fencing of outdoor
storage
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.195   Required number of off-street parking spaces
   
155.196   General regulations for off-street parking
   
155.197   Design standards for off-street parking
   
155.198   Parking of commercial vehicles in residential districts and
unregistered vehicles
   
155.199   Off-street loading
Signs
   
155.210   Scope and applicability
   
155.211   Non-conforming signs
   
155.212   Miscellaneous signs not requiring permits
   
155.213   Freestanding, wall and window signs
   
155.214   Abandoned or outdated signs
   
155.215   Location of signs
   
155.216   Illuminated signs
   
155.217   Vehicle signs
   
155.218   Prohibited signs
   
155.219   Signs identifying major residential and business developments
   
155.220   Measurement and major types of signs
   
155.221   Construction of signs
   
155.222   Off-premises signs (including billboards)
Airport Approach Zoning
   
155.235   Purpose and applicability
   
155.236   Airport zoning agencies
   
155.237   Airport zoning map
   
155.238   Airport zones
   
155.239   Height regulations
   
155.240   Maximum height
   
155.241   Non-conformities
   
155.242   Variances
   
155.243   Hazards; markings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter is hereby adopted:
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements and purposes (including § 604 or
its successor section, which is included by reference) of the state’s
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended;
   (B)   In accordance with the goals and objectives (which are included by
reference) of the Tatamy Borough Comprehensive Plan of 1990 (as may be
amended), which constitutes an overall program;
   (C)   In consideration of the character of the borough, its various parts
and the suitability of the various parts for particular uses and structures;
and
   (D)   To assist in carrying out the goals and purposes of the Constitution
of the commonwealth (especially Art. I, § 27), the state’s Floodplain
Management Act, the state’s Storm Water Management Act, the state’s DER
regulations on erosion and sedimentation control, the state’s Department of
Transportation regulations on highway access control and other relevant federal
and state laws, regulations, official policies and relevant court decisions.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 101)
§ 155.002 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An activity regulated by this chapter shall only occur in such a way
that conforms with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter regulates matters authorized by § 603, Ordinance
Provisions, of the state’s Planning Code or such successor section.
   (C)   All readers maintain the responsibility to procure the latest
amendments to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 102)
§ 155.003 PUBLIC UTILITY EXEMPTIONS.
   See § 619 of the state’s Planning Code.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 103)
§ 155.004 AUTHORITY EXEMPTION.
   The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to uses or structures owned
by the borough or by municipal authorities created solely by the borough, for
uses and structures that are intended for a legitimate governmental or public
health and safety purpose.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 104)
§ 155.005 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall be
interpreted as the minimum requirements to promote public health, safety and
general welfare. Where a provision of this chapter differs or conflicts with
any other provision of this chapter or any other ordinance, regulation or law,
the provision that is more restrictive upon uses and structures shall apply.
   (B)   Uses not specifically regulated. If a use clearly is not permitted by
right, by condition or by special exception by this chapter within any zoning
district, the use is prohibited in the borough, except the applicant may apply
to the Zoning Hearing Board. The Zoning Hearing Board may permit such use if
the applicant proves all of the following to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board:
      (1)   The use would clearly be less offensive in impacts and nuisances
than uses permitted in that district;
      (2)   The use would be compatible with permitted uses in that district;
      (3)   The proposed use would be compatible with the purposes of the
district;
      (4)   The use can meet the general criteria listed in § 11B, entitled
“Standards for Decisions”; and
      (5)   The use is not “specifically prohibited” in the district.
   (C)   Sketches. Sketches in this chapter are for illustrative purposes only
and are not regulatory.
   (D)   Interpretation of chapter text and boundaries. The Zoning Officer
shall apply the wording of this chapter and the location of all district
boundaries to particular applications. In case of uncertainty by the Zoning
Officer, he or she shall request an interpretation of the specific uncertainty
by the Zoning Hearing Board, with the applicant not liable for the application
fee for that particular request. The Zoning Officer may also request an
advisory opinion from the Borough Solicitor or the Zoning Hearing Board
Solicitor. See §§
155.045 through
155.052 of this chapter and the borough’s fee schedule concerning appeals by an
applicant.
   (E)   Definitions. In matters of dispute, the Zoning Hearing Board shall
have the authority to define words that are not specifically defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 105)
§ 155.006 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that if a court of
competent jurisdiction declares any provisions of this chapter to be invalid or
ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such decision shall be limited
to those provisions which are expressly stated in the decision to be invalid or
ineffective, and all other provisions of this chapter shall continue to be
separately and fully effective.
   (B)   The Borough Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter and each section or part thereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections or parts thereof be declared invalid.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 106)
§ 155.007 REPEALER.
   All other borough ordinances or resolutions or parts thereof that were
adopted prior to this chapter and are clearly in direct conflict with this
chapter are hereby repealed, including the pre-existing zoning ordinance, as
amended, but not including
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 107)
§ 155.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General interpretation. For the purposes of this chapter, words and
terms used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Words in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   “Used” or “occupied”, as applied to any land or building include
the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied”.
      (3)   “Should” means that it is strongly encouraged but is not mandatory.
“Shall” is always mandatory.
      (4)   “Sale” shall also include rental.
      (5)   The singular shall include the plural and vice-versa. The masculine
gender shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa.
      (6)   If a word is not defined in this chapter, but is defined in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, as amended, the definition in that
chapter shall apply. If a word is defined in both this chapter and another
borough ordinance, each definition shall apply to the provisions of each
applicable ordinance.
      (7)   Any word or term not defined in this chapter or
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, as amended, shall be used with the
meaning of standard usage within the context of the section.
      (8)   The words “such as”, “includes”, “including” and “specifically”
shall provide examples, but shall not by themselves limit a provision only to
items specifically mentioned, if other items would otherwise comply with the
provision.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 201)
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ABUT. Areas of contiguous lots that share a common lot line, except not
including lots entirely separated by a street or a perennial waterway. See
definition of ADJACENT.
      ACCESS DRIVE or ACCESSWAY. A privately-owned, constructed and maintained
vehicular access roadway accessing more than one dwelling unit or more than one
commercial, institutional or industrial principal use. See also DRIVEWAY.
      ACCESS POINT. One combined entrance/exit point, or one clearly defined
entrance point separated from another clearly defined exit point. This term
shall not include accessways or driveways that are strictly and clearly limited
to use by only emergency vehicles; such accesses are permitted by right as
needed.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building which is subordinate and accessory to a
principal building on the same lot and which is used for purposes that are
clearly customarily incidental to the uses of the principal building. Any
portion of a principal building used for an accessory use shall not be
considered to be an ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, such as a private garage or private
swimming pool, serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the
principal building and located on the same lot as the principal building.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use
or building.
      ACRE. Forty-three thousand five hundred sixty square feet.
      ADJACENT. Includes contiguous lots that share a common lot line or that
are separated only by a street or waterway.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. A use having a significant portion of the market value
of its stock in trade and/or of the number of total items of its stock in trade
in books, films, magazines, video tapes, novelties or other periodicals which
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to uncovered male or female genitals or “specified
sexual activities”. This shall include, but not be limited to, materials that
would be illegal to sell to persons under age 18 under state law.
      ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. A use providing supervised care and assistance
primarily to persons over age 60 and/or disabled persons who need such daily
assistance because of physical disability, old age or mental problems that are
not criminal or violent in nature. This use may involve occasional overnight
stays, but shall not primarily be a residential use. The use shall involve
typical stays of less than 60 hours per week per person.
      ADULT MOVIE THEATER. A use involving the presentation typically to three
or more persons at one time of motion pictures, video tapes or similarly
reproduced images distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depiction of
“specified sexual activities” for observation by patrons therein and that is
related to some form of monetary compensation by the persons viewing such
matter. This shall include, but not be limited to, any theater that shows any
one or multiple motion pictures that is restricted to persons over age 18,
regardless of the presence of parents or guardians, over a total of more than
14 days in any calendar year.
      ADULT USE. This shall include only the following: adult bookstore; adult
movie theater; massage parlor; or cabaret.
      AGRICULTURE. “Crop farming”, “plant nursery” and “animal husbandry”. See
definition of each.
      AIRPORT. An area of land or water or a surface of a building which is
designated, used or intended to be used for the landing and take-off of
motorized aircraft weighing more than 50 pounds each, and any related aircraft
support facilities such as for maintenance, refueling and parking. A PUBLIC
AIRPORT shall be one that does not meet the definition of a PRIVATE AIRPORT. A
PRIVATE AIRPORT shall be one that is limited to a maximum total of 15 flights
and/or take-offs in any seven-day period and that is not available for use by
the general public.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
      AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA. A device, partially or wholly exterior to a
building, that is used for receiving and/or transmitting electronic signals or
short-wave or citizens band radio frequencies. This includes any accessory
supporting structures.
      ANIMAL CEMETERY.
         (a)   Land or buildings used for the internment or burial of the
remains of:
            1.   Three or more non-cremated animals on a lot of less than 30
acres; and
            2.   Ten or more animals on a lot of 30 or more acres.
         (b)   Burial of cremated animals or fewer numbers of non-cremated
animals on a lot shall be a permitted by right accessory use in all districts.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Shall have the same meaning as “veterinarian office.”
      ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The raising and keeping of livestock, poultry or
insects for any commercial purposes or the keeping of any animals for any
reason beyond what is allowed under the §
155.137(D)(9)(k) of this chapter and beyond what is allowed within the
definition of “crop farming”. For the purposes of this chapter, the KEEPING OF
LIVESTOCK shall have the same meaning as ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
shall not include a slaughterhouse, nor a stockyard used for the housing of
animals awaiting slaughter.
      APARTMENT. See DWELLING TYPES.
      APPLICANT. The person(s), company, partnership, profit or non-profit
corporation or trust responsible for a particular application for an approval
or permit under this chapter.
      AUDITORIUM, COMMERCIAL. A commercial area or structure involving indoor
or outdoor space for exhibits, meetings, live performances or sports events,
but not a use that meets the definition of a “movie theater”, “adult cabaret”
or “standard or fast-food restaurant”.
      AUTO, BOAT AND/OR MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SALES. A building or area,
other than a street, used for the outdoor or indoor display, sale or rental of
one or more of the following in operable condition: motor vehicles; recreation
vehicles; boat trailers; farm machinery; motorcycles; trucks; utility trailers;
construction vehicles or boats; or transportable mobile/manufactured homes in a
livable condition. This use may include an auto repair garage as an accessory
use; provided that, all requirements of such use are complied with. This use
shall not include a mobile/manufactured home park or a junkyard.
      AUTO REPAIR GARAGE. A building and/or land where repairs, improvements
and installation of parts and accessories for motor vehicles and/or boats are
conducted that involves work that is more intense in character than work
permitted under the definition of “auto service station”. An AUTO REPAIR GARAGE
shall include, but not be limited to, any use that involves any of the
following work: major mechanical or body work; straightening of body parts;
painting; welding or rebuilding of transmissions. Any use permitted as part of
a “auto service station” is also permitted as part of an AUTO REPAIR GARAGE.
      AUTO SERVICE STATION. A building and/or land where gasoline is sold, and
where no repairs are conducted, except work that may be conducted that is
closely similar in character to the following: sale and installation of oil,
lubricants, batteries and belts and similar accessories; and safety and
emission inspections. This use may include the sale of ready-to-eat food for
consumption off of the lot and common household products as a clearly accessory
use; provided that, the total parking requirements of §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter are complied with.
      BASEMENT. An enclosed floor area partly or wholly underground. A BASEMENT
shall be considered a “story” if more than 50% of the perimeter walls at the
basement ceiling height are five feet or higher above the adjacent finished
grade.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. The use of a maximum of four transient rental units
within a dwelling. This shall only include a use that is operated primarily by
a permanent resident(s) of the dwelling. No person (other than the operator and
his or her family) shall occupy the use for more than 21 days in any 60- day
period.
      BETTING USE. A use where lawful gambling activities are conducted,
including, but not limited to, off-track pari-mutual betting. This term shall
not include betting under the State Lottery programs or betting under the
“small games of chance” provisions of state law, which shall instead be
regulated under the regulations applicable to the principal use of the property
(such as a “membership club”).
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. Any off-premises sign with any total
sign area greater than 50 square feet.
      BLAST or BLASTING. The explosion of dynamite, black powder, fuse,
blasting cap, detonators, electric squibs or other explosives.
      BOARD. The Zoning Hearing Borough of Tatamy Borough.
      BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Borough Council of Tatamy Borough.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A residential use in which two or more individual rooms
that do not meet the definition of a dwelling unit are rented for habitation or
a dwelling unit that includes greater than the permitted maximum number of
unrelated persons, and which does not meet the definition of a hotel,
dormitory, motel, life care center, personal care center, bed and breakfast
use, group home or nursing home. A college fraternity or sorority house used as
a residence shall be considered a type of BOARDING HOUSE. A BOARDING HOUSE may
either involve or not involve the providing of meals to residents. This use
shall only involve renting living accommodations for minimum periods of five
consecutive days.
      BOROUGH. The Borough of Tatamy, Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
      BUFFER YARD. A strip of land separating a land use from another land use
or feature, and which is not occupied by any principal or accessory building,
parking, outdoor storage or any use other than open space or approved
pedestrian pathways. A BUFFER YARD may be a part of the minimum setback
distance, but land within an existing or future street right-of-way shall not
be used to meet a BUFFER YARD requirement.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a permanent roof and intended for the
shelter, work area, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, vehicles,
equipment or materials and that has a total area under roof of greater than 50
cubic feet. BUILDING is interpreted as including “or part thereof”. See the
separate definition of STRUCTURE. Any structure involving a permanent roof
(such as a covered porch or a carport) that is attached to a principal building
shall be considered to be part of that principal building.
      BUILDING COVERAGE. The percentage obtained by dividing the maximum
horizontal area in square feet of all principal and accessory buildings on a
lot by the total lot area of the lot upon which the buildings are located.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building used for the conduct of the principal use
of a lot, and which is not an accessory building.
      BUILDING LENGTH. The horizontal measurement between the two most distant
portions, other than portions measured diagonally, of any one building or of
attached buildings.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
      BUILDING WIDTH. The horizontal measurement between two structural walls
of one building that are generally parallel, measured in one general direction
that is most closely parallel to the required lot width. For a townhouse, this
WIDTH shall be the width of each dwelling unit.
      BULK RECYCLING CENTER. A use involving the bulk commercial collection,
separation and/or processing of types of waste materials found in the typical
household for some productive reuse, but which does not involve the actual
processing or recycling of hazardous or toxic substances, and which does not
primarily involve the processing of non-recycled solid waste, unless the use
also meets the applicable requirements for a solid waste transfer facility.
This definition shall, not include a junkyard.
      BULK STORAGE. Storage beyond what is reasonably needed for customary use
on-site. This includes storage of substances intended to be sold or re-sold for
use off-site.
      CABARET. A use including live entertainment involving persons displaying
uncovered male or female genitals or completely nude female breasts or engaging
in simulated or actual “specified sexual activities” related to some form of
monetary compensation paid to an operator of the use or to persons involved in
such activity.
      CAMPGROUND. A use that is primarily recreational in nature that involves
the use of tents or sites leased for recreational vehicles for transient and
seasonal occupancy by persons recreating or travelers, or the use of tents or
cabins for seasonal occupancy by organized groups of persons under age 18 and
their counselors.
      CARPORT. A building intended for the storage of one or more motor
vehicles, but which is not enclosed on all sides. If any portion of a CARPORT
is attached to a principal building, it shall be considered to be part of that
building.
      CARTWAY. The paved portion of a street designed for vehicular traffic and
on-street parking, but not including the shoulder of the street.
      CEMETERY. Land or buildings used for the burial of deceased humans, but
not animals. The internment of remains of cremated humans is not regulated by
this chapter.
      CHAIRPERSON. Includes chairman, chairwoman, chair and acting chairperson
(when applicable).
      CHRISTMAS TREE FARM or TREE FARM. A type of crop farming involving the
raising and harvesting of evergreen trees for commercial purposes. This may
include the retail sale of trees from November 15 to December 30 that were
produced on the premises.
      COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure, partially or wholly
exterior to a building, used for transmitting or retransmitting electronic
signals. COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS include, but are not limited to,
antenna used for transmitting commercial radio or television signals or
cellular telephone communications, but shall not include an amateur radio
antenna.
      COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. The C District.
      COMMERCIAL FORESTRY. The harvesting of more than 25 live trees with a
trunk width of six inches or more at a height three feet above the average
ground level on any tract or lot within a calendar year. This term shall not
apply to the following, which are permitted by right uses in all districts:
         (a)   Cutting of trees that involve less than 20% of all trees on one
or more abutting lots with a trunk width of greater than six inches;
         (b)   Cutting of trees with a trunk width less than six inches;
         (c)   Cutting of fewer than 25 such trees in a calendar year;
         (d)   Christmas tree farms; nor
         (e)   Clearing of portions of a lot that is clearly the minimum
necessary for construction.
      COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION. An area which has a total building
coverage of less than 15%, is used principally for active or passive recreation
and is used for a profit-making purpose.
      COMMERCIAL USE. Includes retail sales, offices, personal services, auto
sales, auto repair garages and other uses of a similar nature. The sale of
goods or services from a vehicle on a lot shall also be considered to be a
COMMERCIAL USE.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Borough of Tatamy.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A non-commercial use that exists solely to provide
leisure and educational activities and programs to the general public or
certain age groups. The use also may include the non-commercial preparation
and/or provision of meals to low-income elderly persons. This shall not include
residential uses.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The document entitled the Borough Comprehensive Plan,
or any part thereof, adopted by the Borough Council, as amended.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is allowed or denied by the Borough Council
within the provisions of §
155.027 of this chapter, after review by the Planning Commission.
      CONDOMINIUM. A set of individual dwelling units or other areas of
buildings each owned by an individual person(s) in fee simple, with such owners
assigned a proportionate interest in the remainder of the real estate which is
designated for common ownership, and which is created under either the state’s
Unit Property Act of 1963 or the state’s Uniform Condominium Act of 1980, as
amended.
      CONSTRUCTION. Includes the placing of construction materials in permanent
position and fastening in a temporary or permanent position and/or the
demolition of a pre-existing building.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A use that primarily sells routine household goods,
groceries and prepared ready-to-eat foods to the general public, but that is
not primarily a restaurant, and that includes a building with a floor area of
less than 5,000 square feet. This use may also include the accessory sale of
gasoline; provided, the requirements for an “auto service station” are also
met.
      CONVERSION. To change or adapt land or structures to a different use.
      COUNTY. The County of Northampton, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Joint Planning Commission, Lehigh-
Northampton Counties.
      CRIMINAL TREATMENT CENTER. A type of institutional use, other than a
prison or a permitted type of “hospital”, providing living accommodations and/
or treatment facilities for persons needing such treatment because of offenses
or actions that are criminal in nature. This shall include, but not be limited
to, persons requiring such treatment or housing because of current, illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined by federal law. This use
shall include, but not be limited to, drug rehabilitation centers, half-way
houses for persons recently released from prison, holding centers for persons
who would otherwise be imprisoned, facilities for the housing and treatment of
persons who suffer from a mental illness that is criminal in nature and
holding/treatment centers for drunk drivers.
      CROP FARMING. The cultivating, raising and harvesting of products of the
soil and the storage of these products produced on the premises. The definition
of CROP FARMING shall also include orchards and Christmas tree farms, but shall
not include animal husbandry, commercial forestry, riding academies or kennels.
If a CROP FARMING LOT includes more than 15 acres, it may also include the
keeping of up to ten additional animals as a permitted accessory use, in
addition to what is permitted under the “keeping of pets” in §
155.137(D)(9).
      CULTURAL CENTER. A building and/or land open to the public which contains
exhibits of clearly artistic or cultural interest, such as a museum, art
gallery or indoor nature study area. This shall not include uses that are
primarily commercial in nature.
      CURATIVE AMENDMENT. A proposed zoning amendment made to the Borough
Council by any landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of an ordinance which prohibits or restricts the use or development of
land in which they have an interest.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A use involving the supervised care of children under
age 16 outside of the children’s own home primarily for periods of less than 18
hours during the average day. This use may also include educational programs
that are supplementary to state required education, including a “nursery
school”. See also the definition of ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. (See also the
standards of §§
155.136 and
155.137 of this chapter, which generally treat a DAY CARE CENTER serving seven
or more children as a principal use, and a DAY CARE CENTER serving six or fewer
children as an accessory use.)
      DAYS. Calendar days.
      DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units divided by the “lot area”,
unless otherwise stated.
      D.E.R. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources, or its
successor, and its relevant subparts.
      DETACHED BUILDING. A building that is surrounded on all sides by open
yards and that is not attached to any other building.
      DEVELOPMENT. Construction, erection or expansion of a structure or
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
The term also includes any activities defined as LAND DEVELOPMENT under
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      DISTRIBUTION. The processing of materials so as to sort out which
materials are to be transported to different locations and the loading and
unloading of such materials. This term shall not include a “truck terminal”.
      DISTRICT or ZONING DISTRICT. A land area within the borough within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
      DORMITORY. A principal or accessory building that includes residential
areas occupied exclusively by faculty or students of an accredited college or
university or state-licensed teaching hospital or accredited public or private
primary or secondary school.
      DRIVEWAY. A privately-owned, constructed and maintained vehicular access
from a street or access drive to only one dwelling unit, commercial unit,
institutional or industrial principal use. See also ACCESS DRIVE.
      DUMP. Any area used for solid waste disposal that does not operate under
a valid solid waste permit issued by the state’s DER and that is not a
permitted junkyard under this chapter.
      DWELLING. A building used as non-transient living quarters, but not
including a boarding house, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home or any group
residence. A DWELLING may include a use that meets the definition of a
“sectional home”. This chapter categorizes DWELLINGS into the following types.
         (a)   CONVERSION APARTMENT. A new dwelling unit created within an
existing building.
         (b)   GARDEN APARTMENTS. Three or more dwelling units within a
building that are separated by only horizontal floors or by a combination of
horizontal floors and vertical walls (see definition of TOWNHOUSES). This shall
include buildings with a maximum height of three and one-half stories or 35
feet, whichever is lesser. The individual dwelling units may be leased or sold
for condominium ownership.
         (c)   MID-RISE APARTMENTS. Three or more dwelling units within a
building that is higher than 35 feet or three and one-half stories, and less
than 60 feet or six stories (whichever is less).
         (d)   SECTIONAL HOME. A type of dwelling that meets a definition of
single-family detached dwelling, single-family semi-detached dwelling,
townhouse or garden apartment that is substantially, but not wholly produced in
two or more major sections off the site and then is assembled and completed on
the site, and that does not meet the definition of a “mobile/manufactured home”
and that is supported structurally by its exterior walls and that rests on a
permanent foundation.
         (e)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING.
            1.   A dwelling unit accommodating a single family and having open
area on all sides.
            2.   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME.
               a.   A type of single-family detached dwelling that meets all of
the following requirements:
                  i.   Is transportable;
                  ii.   Is designed for permanent occupancy;
                  iii.   Is contained in a single piece, or two substantial
pieces designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of again being
separated for repeated towing;
                  iv.   Which arrives at a site complete and ready for
occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations
and constructed so that it may be used with or without a permanent foundation;
                  v.   Is not a “recreation vehicle”; and
                  vi.   Includes a minimum of 300 square feet of interior floor
space.
               b.   The terms “mobile home” and “manufactured home” have the
same meaning. See the definition of SECTION HOME.
         (f)   SINGLE-FAMILY SEMI-DETACHED DWELLING. One dwelling unit
accommodating one family that is attached and completely separated by a
vertical unpierced fire resistant wall to only one additional dwelling unit.
One side yard shall be adjacent to each dwelling unit. This use is commonly
known as one-half of a duplex or one-half of a twin home. Each unit may or may
not be on a separate lot.
         (g)   TOWNHOUSE. One dwelling unit that is attached to two or more
dwelling units, and with each dwelling unit being completely separated from
each other by vertical fire resistant walls. Each dwelling unit shall have its
own outside access. Side yards shall be adjacent to each end unit. TOWNHOUSES
are also commonly referred to as ROWHOUSES or SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLINGS.
         (h)   TWO-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. Two dwelling units accommodating
one family each, with both dwelling units within a single building on a single
lot, and without the dwelling units being completely separated by a vertical
wall. The building shall have two side yards.
      DWELLING UNIT. One dwelling occupied by only one “family”. See definition
of FAMILY. Each dwelling unit shall have its own sanitary, sleeping and cooking
facilities and separate access to the outside, or to a common hallway or
balcony that connects to outside access at ground level. A DWELLING UNIT shall
have cooking facilities within a single room or two abutting rooms that open
into each other. No DWELLING UNIT shall include a separate living area that is
completely separated by interior walls so as to prevent interior access from
the remainder of the living area.
      EMERGENCY SERVICES STATION. A building for the housing of fire, emergency
medical or police equipment and for related activities. A membership club may
be included if it is a permitted use in that district. This may include housing
for emergency personnel while on-call.
      EMPLOYEES. The highest number of workers (including both part-time and
full-time, both compensated and volunteer and both employees and contractors)
present on a lot at any one time, other than clearly temporary and occasional
persons working on physical improvements to the site.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Uses that are necessary for the preservation of the
public health and safety, and that are routine, customary and appropriate to
the character of the area in which they are to be located. See standards in §
155.137 of this chapter. ESSENTIAL SERVICES shall not include a central sewage
treatment plant, a solid waste disposal area or facility, commercial
communications towers, a power generating station, septic or sludge disposal,
offices, storage of trucks or equipment or bulk storage of materials.
      EXERCISE CLUB. A facility that offers indoor or outdoor recreational
facilities, such as the following: weight rooms; exercise equipment; non-
household pool; racquetball courts; and training for these activities.
      FAMILY. One or more persons living in a single dwelling unit and
functioning as a common household unit. A FAMILY shall not include more than
five persons who are not related to each other by blood, official foster
relationship, marriage or adoption. The term FAMILY may specifically include a
maximum of five unrelated persons living within a “group home” (including the
highest number of staff present during any one shift); except that, the
provisions for groups homes in §
155.136 of this chapter may allow a greater number of unrelated persons in
certain circumstances. A “criminal treatment center” shall not be considered a
FAMILY or a “group home”.
      FENCE. A human-made barrier placed or arranged as a line of demarcation,
an enclosure or a visual barrier and that is constructed of wood, chain-link
metal, vinyl or aluminum and/or plastic inserts. Human-made barriers
constructed principally of masonry, concrete, cinder block or similar materials
shall be considered a “wall”. The term “wall” does not include engineering
retaining walls, which are permitted uses as needed in all districts. The terms
FENCE and “wall” do not include hedges, trees or shrubs.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment primarily involved with loans and
monetary, not material, transactions and that has routine interactions with the
public.
      FLOODPLAIN (100-YEAR). See definitions in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
      FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE. The horizontal floor area within an enclosed
building that:
         (a)   Is heated;
         (b)   Is intended to be used by humans; and
         (c)   Has a minimum floor-to-ceiling clear height of six feet five
inches.
      FORESTRY, COMMERCIAL. See COMMERCIAL FORESTRY.
      FRATERNITY. A type of “boarding house”.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE OR HOUSEHOLD. An enclosed building for the storage of one
or more motor vehicles. No business, occupation or service shall be conducted
in a private garage that is accessory to a dwelling, except as may be allowed
as a home occupation.
      GARAGE SALE. The accessory use of any lot for the occasional sale or
auction of only common household goods and furniture and items of a closely
similar character. See §
155.137 of this chapter.
      GLARE. A sensation of brightness within the visual field which causes
annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance, visibility and/or ability
to focus.
      GROUP HOME.
         (a)   The use of a permitted dwelling unit in such a way that it meets
all of the following criteria:
            1.   Involves the care of less than 15 persons, or a lower maximum
number of persons provided by §
155.136 of this chapter;
            2.   Involves the care of persons who need non-routine support
services and oversight in order to reasonably function, because of physical
illness or infirmity, old age, physical disability, mental illness, mental
retardation or emotional disability or other “handicap” as defined by the
relevant federal law or regulation, but not including any use that meets the
definition in this section of a “criminal treatment center”. (Note: as of 1990,
the Federal Fair Housing Act defined “handicap” with respect to a person” as
follows: “(1) a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities, (2) a record of having such an
impairment, or (3) being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term
does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance
as defined in section 802 of Title 21.”);
            3.   Involves persons living together and functioning as a common
household;
            4.   Meets all of the standards in §
155.136 of this chapter;
            5.   Does not involve the housing of persons who constitute a
direct threat to the physical safety of others, including, but not limited to,
persons prone to physical violence against others.
         (b)   Either of the following shall not by itself cause the
regulations of §
155.136 of this chapter to apply other than what applies to a “family”:
            1.   The care of one or two persons in a group home type of
setting; and
            2.   The care of persons who are related to each other or to a
resident caregiver by blood, marriage, adoption or formal foster relationship.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those wastes where significant potential exists for
causing adverse public health or environmental impacts if the waste is handled,
stored, transported, treated or disposed of in a manner customarily accepted
for ordinary solid wastes. This also includes wastes subject to special state
or federal licensing or regulation, including, but not limited to, the state’s
Solid Waste Management Act.
      HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the
average proposed surrounding ground level to the highest point of a structure.
See exemptions for certain types of structures in §
155.151 of this chapter.
      HELIPORT. An area used for the take-off and landing of helicopters,
together with any related support facilities such as for maintenance, refueling
and storage. This chapter is not intended to regulate the non-routine emergency
landing and take-off of aircraft to pick-up seriously injured or ill persons.
         (a)   PUBLIC HELIPORT. A heliport that does not meet the definition of
a “private heliport”.
         (b)   PRIVATE HELIPORT. A heliport limited to a maximum total of 15
flights or take-offs in any seven-day period and that is not available for use
by the general public. This is also known as a HELISTOP.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use conducted or administered primarily by
one or more permanent residents of a dwelling within that dwelling or its
accessory building, and that is clearly incidental and secondary to the
principal residential use, and that does not meet the definition and standards
for a “home office”. See §
155.137 of this chapter.
      HOME OFFICE.
         (a)   The routine, accessory and customary use of a portion of a
dwelling for conduct of administrative work, clerical work, sales over the
phone or the receiving of mail that:
            1.   Is conducted solely by permanent residents of the dwelling;
and
            2.   Does not involve retail or wholesale sales on the premises
(other than over the phone and through the mail), nor any industrial use.
         (b)   See §
155.137 of this chapter.
      HOSPITAL. A use involving the diagnosis, treatment or other medical care
of humans that includes, but is not limited to, care requiring stays overnight.
A medical care use that does not involve stays overnight shall be considered a
“medical office or clinic”. A HOSPITAL may involve care and rehabilitation for
medical, dental or mental health, but shall not include housing of the
criminally insane and shall not primarily involve the housing or treatment of
persons actively serving an official sentence after being convicted of a
felony. A HOSPITAL may also involve medical research and training for health
care professions.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or buildings including rooms rented out to
persons as clearly transient and temporary living quarters. Any such use that
customarily involves the housing of persons for periods of time longer than 30
days shall be considered a “boarding house” and shall meet the requirements of
that use. See also “bed and breakfast” use.
      IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE. The total area of all “impervious surfaces” on a lot
(including building coverage) divided by the total lot area.
         (a)   Areas being voluntarily dedicated as common open space may be
included in the acreage for determining IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE of an adjoining
lot.
         (b)   The NON-IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE may be partially or wholly met by
land that abuts the use, even if such land is in a different zoning district,
an adjoining municipality and/or an abutting lot, if such land will be deed
restricted as permanent open space and be so clearly stated on official
recorded plans. In such case, such land shall be properly maintained by the
abutting use.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Area covered by roofs, concrete, asphalt or other
human-made cover which has a coefficient of runoff of 0.8 or greater. Any
dispute over whether an area is IMPERVIOUS shall be decided by the Borough
Engineer. Areas of land paved for the sole purpose of non-commercial tennis
courts, bicycle trails or basketball courts or closely similar active outdoor
recreation may be deleted from impervious surfaces, unless they would also be
used for non-recreational uses (such as parking).
      INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS. Includes the LI District.
      INDUSTRIAL USE. Includes manufacturing, distribution, warehousing and
other operations of an industrial and not primarily of a commercial,
institutional or residential nature.
      JUNK.
         (a)   Any discarded, scrap or abandoned human-made or human-processed
material or articles, such as the following types: metal, furniture,
appliances, motor vehicles, aircraft, glass, plastics, industrial waste,
machinery, equipment, containers, structures, used building materials and
building materials left on a site after completion of the portion of
construction to which those building materials relate.
         (b)   JUNK shall not include:
            1.   Solid waste that is temporarily stored as is customary in an
appropriate container that is routinely awaiting collection and disposed of in
a manner consistent with state regulations;
            2.   Toxic wastes;
            3.   Grass clippings, leaves or tree limbs; or
            4.   Items clearly awaiting imminent recycling at an approved
recycling use.
      JUNK VEHICLE. Includes any vehicle or trailer that meets any of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Does not display a license plate with a current registration
sticker;
         (b)   Does not have a valid state safety inspection sticker, or valid
temporary failed sticker, where that would be required for it to travel on a
public street;
         (c)   Cannot be immediately moved under its own power, in regards to a
vehicle designed to move under its own power, other than a vehicle clearly
needing only minor repairs;
         (d)   Cannot be immediately towed, in regards to a vehicle designed to
be towed;
         (e)   Has been demolished beyond repair;
         (f)   Has been separate from its axles, engine, body or chassis; and/
or
         (g)   Includes only the axle, engine, body parts and/or chassis,
separated from the remainder of the vehicle.
      JUNKYARD.
         (a)   Land or a structure used for the collection, storage,
dismantling, processing and/or sale, other than within a completely enclosed
building, of material of one or more of the following types:
            1.   Junk;
            2.   A greater number of junk vehicles than is permitted under §
155.198 of this chapter that are partly or fully visible from an exterior lot
line, dwelling and/or public street. This shall not apply to such vehicles
allowed to be stored within the specific requirements of an auto repair garage
or auto service station; and
            3.   One or more mobile/manufactured homes that are not in a
habitable condition.
         (b)   Junk stored within a completely enclosed building shall be
considered a warehouse and shall meet the requirements of that use.
      KENNEL. The keeping of a greater number of dogs or cats on a lot or
within a dwelling unit beyond that number permitted under the “keeping of pets”
or the “crop farming” provisions of §
155.137 of this chapter. A non-profit animal shelter is a type of KENNEL.
      LANDOWNER. The owner of a legal or equitable interest in land, including
the holder of a written, signed and active option or contract to purchase or a
leasee (if authorized under the lease to exercise the right of the landowner),
or authorized officers of a partnership or corporation that is a LANDOWNER or
other person having a proprietary interest in land. A person who has clearly
received formal notarized powers of attorney relating to a LANDOWNER may act in
the capacity of the LANDOWNER, if legally authorized.
      LEAF COMPOSTING. The collection and processing of vegetative material to
allow it to biologically decompose under controlled anaerobic or aerobic
conditions to yield a humus-like product.
      LIGHTING, DIFFUSED. Illumination that passes from the source through a
translucent cover or shade.
      LINE, STREET. The street right-of-way line. This shall be the future
street right-of-way line, if one is required to be established.
      LOT. A separate parcel of land that is recorded or that will be recorded
after borough final subdivision approval in the office of the County Recorder
of Deeds. A parcel under common ownership that is completely separated into two
parts by a public street shall be considered to be one tract, but two LOTS.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot which has an interior angle of less than 135 degrees
at the intersection of two street lines. A lot abutting upon a curved street or
streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if the tangent to the curve at the
points beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side
lot lines with the street lines intersect at an angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot that abuts two approximately parallel
streets, but only has access onto one street.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot that abuts two approximately parallel streets.
      LOT, FLAG OR KEYHOLE. An irregularly shaped lot characterized by an
elongated extension from a street to the principal part of the lot. The flag or
keyhole shape of the lot is normally intended to provide for access to an
otherwise landlocked interior parcel. See §
155.150 of this chapter.
      LOT AREA. The horizontal land area contained within the lot lines of a
lot (measured in acres or square feet). LOT AREA shall not include the
following:
         (a)   Areas within existing street rights-of-way;
         (b)   Areas that are currently or will be dedicated as common open
space; or
         (c)   For residential lots only, areas within rights-of-way intended
for overhead electrical lines of 35 kilovolts or higher capacity.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines, measured through the approximate center of the lot.
      LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot. Wherever a property line
borders a public street, the LOT LINE shall be considered to be the existing
street right-of-way.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE (STREET LINE). A lot line separating the lot from
the future street right-of-way.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. A lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. (A three- sided lot has no REAR LOT LINE.)
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
A SIDE STREET LOT LINE is a side lot line separating a lot from a street.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the minimum front yard building setback line, unless otherwise stated.
      MANUFACTURE. The making, with substantial use of machinery, of some
product for sale and/or associated assembly, fabrication, cleaning, testing,
processing, recycling, packaging, conversion, production, distribution and
repair, with substantial use of machinery, of products for sale. This term
shall not include the following: retail sales, personal services, solid waste
disposal facility or truck terminal.
      MASSAGE. The performance of manipulative exercises using the hands and/or
a mechanical device on a person(s) by another person(s) that is related to
certain monetary compensation.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment that meets all of the following
criteria:
         (a)   “Massages” are conducted;
         (b)   The person conducting the massage is not licensed as a health
care professional or licensed massage therapist by the state;
         (c)   The massages are conducted within private or semi-private rooms;
and
         (d)   The use is not clearly a customary and incidental accessory use
to a permitted exercise club or a high school or college athletic program.
      MEDICAL OFFICE OR CLINIC. A use involving the treatment and examination
of patients by state-licensed physicians or dentists; provided that, no
patients shall be kept overnight on the premises. This use may involve the
testing of tissue, blood or other human materials for medical or dental
purposes.
      MEMBERSHIP CLUB. An area of land or building used by a recreational,
civic, social, fraternal, religious, political or labor union association of
persons for meetings and routine socializing and recreation that are limited to
members and their occasional guests, and persons specifically invited to
special celebrations, but which is not routinely open to members of the general
public. This use shall not include a target range for outdoor shooting,
boarding house, a tavern, a restaurant or an auditorium unless that particular
use is permitted in that district and the requirements of that use are met.
      MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal from the surface or beneath the surface
of the land of bulk mineral resources using significant machinery. MINERAL
EXTRACTION includes, but is not limited to the extraction of sand, gravel,
topsoil, limestone, sandstone, coal, clay, shale and iron ore. The routine
movement of and replacement of topsoil during construction shall not, by
itself, be considered to be MINERAL EXTRACTION.
      MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME. See under DWELLING TYPES.
      MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership
which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more mobile/
manufactured homes for non-transient residential use. The individual
manufactured homes may be individually owned. A development of mobile/
manufactured homes that is subdivided into individual lots shall be regulated
in the same manner as a subdivision of site-built homes, and shall not be
considered to be a MOBILE HOME PARK.
      MOTEL. See HOTEL.
      MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE. The state’s Municipalities Planning Code,
Act 248 of 1968, as amended.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot which does not conform with the minimum lot
width or area dimensions specified for the district where such lot is situated,
but was lawfully in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter or is
legally established through the granting of a variance by the Zoning Hearing
Board.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure manifestly
not designed to comply with the applicable lot area, dimensional and other
provisions in this chapter, as amended, where such structure lawfully existed
prior to the enactment of such ordinance or amendment. Such NON- CONFORMING
STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, signs.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or of a structure, which does
not comply with the applicable use provisions in this chapter or amendments
heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior
to the enactment of this chapter or amendment.
      NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the state for the housing and
intermediate or fully-skilled nursing care of three or more persons.
      OFFICE. A use that involves administrative, clerical, financial,
governmental or professional operations and operations of a similar character.
This use shall not include retail, nor industrial uses, but may include
business offices, medical or dental offices, clinics or laboratories,
photographic studios and/or television or radio broadcasting studios.
      OFFICIAL MAP. Any official map that may be adopted or amended by the
Borough Council in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code.
      OFFICIAL STREET CLASSIFICATION PLAN. The map as adopted by the Borough
Council classifying the streets of the borough. See definition of STREET
CLASSIFICATION. This map may be amended by resolution of the Borough Council.
      OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. The map as adopted by the Borough Council which
designates the location and boundaries of zoning districts.
      OPEN SPACE, COMMON. A parcel or parcels of land, or an area of water, or
a combination of land and water within a tract which is:
         (a)   Designed, intended and suitable for active or passive recreation
by residents of a development or the general public;
         (b)   Which is covered by a system for perpetual maintenance;
         (c)   Is deed restricted to permanently prevent the use of land for
uses other than “common open space”; and
         (d)   Which does not include any of the following: existing or future
street rights-of-way, accessways, buildings (other than accessory buildings and
pools clearly intended for non-commercial recreation), off-street parking
(other than that clearly intended for non-commercial recreation), any area
needed to meet a requirement for an individual lot, any area deeded over to an
individual property owner for their own use, land with rights-of-way intended
eventually for overhead electrical transmission of 35 kilovolts or greater
capacity.
      ORDINANCE. The Tatamy Borough Zoning Ordinance, including the Official
Zoning Map and Official Street Classification Map, as amended. Also referred to
herein as THIS CHAPTER.
      PA. Pennsylvania.
      PARKING. Off-street parking, unless otherwise stated.
      PAVED AREA. All areas covered by gravel and/or impervious surfaces, other
than buildings and concrete public sidewalks.
      PENNDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, or its successor,
and its subparts.
      PERMIT. A document issued by the proper borough authority authorizing the
applicant to undertake certain activities.
         (a)   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit indicating that a proposed
construction, alteration or reconstruction of a structure is, to the best
knowledge of the borough staff, in accordance with the provisions of any
Building Code which may be adopted by the borough.
         (b)   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued indicating that a proposed use,
building or structure is, to the best knowledge of the borough staff, in
accordance with this chapter and which authorizes an applicant to proceed with
said use, building or structure, within all other applicable laws and
regulations. For the purposes of this chapter, a ZONING PERMIT or A PERMIT
UNDER THIS CHAPTER shall mean the applicable portions of a construction permit,
unless a specific system of zoning permits has been established.
      PERMITTED BY RIGHT USE. Uses that do not have to be approved as uses by
the Zoning Hearing Board or the Borough Council. (A site plan review by the
Planning Commission and the Borough Council is required for certain PERMITTED
BY RIGHT USES to ensure that the use would comply with all borough ordinances.)
A non-conforming use shall not be considered to be a PERMITTED USE.
      PERSONAL CARE CENTER. A residential use providing residential and support
services primarily to persons over age 60 and/or the disabled and that is
licensed as a PERSONAL CARE CENTER by the commonwealth.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. An establishment that provides a service oriented to
personal needs of the general public and which does not involve primarily
retail or wholesale sales or services to businesses. PERSONAL SERVICES include
barber and beauty shops, shoe repair shops, household appliance repair shops
and other similar establishments, but shall not include a massage parlor.
      PICNIC GROVE. An area of open space and pavilions that is not publicly
owned and which is rented for picnics and outdoor recreation.
      PLACES OF WORSHIP. Buildings, synagogues, churches, religious retreats,
monasteries, seminaries and shrines used primarily for religious and/or
spiritual worship and that are operated for non- profit and non-commercial
purposes. If such use is primarily residential in nature, it shall be regulated
under the appropriate “dwelling type”.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Borough of Tatamy.
      PLANT NURSERY. The indoor and/or outdoor raising of trees, plants, shrubs
or flowers for sale, but not primarily including commercial forestry for
lumber. A PLANT NURSERY may include the growth of trees for sale for internal
decoration of homes, such as a Christmas tree farm.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which the principal use of a lot is
conducted. Any building that is physically attached to a PRINCIPAL BUILDING
shall be considered part of that PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The dominant use(s) or single main use on a lot, as
opposed to an accessory use.
      PROPERTY LINE. Has the same meaning as LOT LINE.
      PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice required by the state’s Planning Code.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED RECREATION. Land and/or facilities that are owned by a
government agency or the borough and are available for use by the general
public for leisure and recreation.
      RECREATION, PRIVATE OR COMMERCIAL. Leisure-time activities that are only
open to members, guests or some specific groups and/or that are principally
operated for commercial purposes.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is designed primarily to transport
a person for primarily recreational instead of transportation purposes, or a
vehicle that serves as a mobile, temporary dwelling. This may include a vehicle
that is self-propelled, towed or carried by another vehicle, but shall not
include camper cabs that fit over pickup trucks. This term shall also include
the following: watercraft with a hull longer than 14 feet; motor homes; travel
trailers; all terrain vehicles; and snowmobiles.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE AREA. An outdoor area used for the storage
of three or more recreational vehicles. Retail sales or major repair work shall
only be allowed if those uses are permitted in that district.
      RECYCLING CENTER, BULK. See BULK RECYCLING CENTER.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER. A use for collection and temporary storage
of more than 500 pounds of common household materials for recycling, but that
does not involve processing or recycling other than routine sorting, baling and
weighing of materials. This term shall not include the indoor storage of less
than 500 pounds of household recyclables and their customary collection, which
is a permitted by right accessory use in all districts, without additional
regulations. A RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER is also a permitted by right
accessory use to a public or private primary or secondary school, a place of
worship, a borough-owned use, an emergency services station or a college or
university.
      RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A use or structure that
is clearly accessory, customary and incidental to a principal residential use
on a lot, including the following uses and uses that are very similar in
nature: garage (private); carport; tennis court; garage sale; basketball
backboard; storage of a recreational vehicle; private swimming pool; nursery
school/day care center (as an accessory use); volleyball court; home office;
gazebo; storage shed; greenhouse; children’s playhouse; and children’s play
equipment.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The R-1, R-2 and R-3 Zoning Districts.
      RESIDENTIAL LOT LINES. The lot line of a lot containing an existing
dwelling or the lot line of undeveloped land zoned as a residential district.
      RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.
         (a)   An establishment that sells ready-to-consume food or drink, that
routinely involves the consumption of at least a portion of such food on the
premises and that does not meet the definition of a “standard restaurant”.
         (b)   A FAST-FOOD RESTAURANT may include the accessory sale of
alcoholic beverages; however, if such sale is a primary or substantial portion
of the total trade, the requirements of a “tavern” must be met.
         (c)   If a primary or substantial portion of the total trade is in
admission charges for entertainment and the use has a capacity of more than 300
persons for such entertainment, the requirements for an “auditorium” shall be
met.
      RESTAURANT, STANDARD.
         (a)   An establishment that serves ready-to-consume food or drink for
compensation in which the majority of the customers order their food while
seated inside a building from a waiter or waitress and then the food is
delivered to their table and consumed at the table.
         (b)   A STANDARD RESTAURANT may include the accessory sale of
alcoholic beverages; however, if such sale is a primary or substantial portion
of the total trade, the requirements of a “tavern” must be met.
         (c)   If a primary or substantial portion of the total trade is in
admission charges for entertainment and the use has a capacity of more than 300
persons for such entertainment, the requirements for an “auditorium” shall be
met.
      RETAIL STORE. A use in which merchandise is sold or rented to the general
public, but not including the following: sales of motor vehicles or boats;
adult movie theater; adult bookstore; manufacturing; tavern; car wash; auto
service station; auto repair garage; convenience store; or restaurant.
      RETIREMENT VILLAGE. A residential development limited exclusively to
persons aged 55 years and older and their spouses.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved for the public or others for use as a street
or other purpose. Unless otherwise stated, RIGHT-OF-WAY shall mean the existing
street right-of-way line.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, EXISTING OR LEGAL. The line separating a lot from the
established official street right-of-way that will be owned by the borough or
the commonwealth after the completion of any proposed subdivision, land
development or development of a use under this chapter.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, FUTURE. Land that is dedicated or is required to be defined
or reserved for future dedication for use as a street and for related public
improvements. The terms ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY, RIGHT-OF-WAY RESERVED FOR FUTURE
DEDICATION and FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY shall have the same meaning. See §
155.154 of this chapter. If a FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY is not required to be
defined, then FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY shall have the same meaning as existing
right-of-way.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A type of solid waste disposal area involving the
depositing of solid waste on land, compacting the waste, covering the waste
with soil and then compacting the soil, and which has a permit to operate as a
sanitary landfill from the state.
      SATELLITE ANTENNA. A ground-based reflector, usually parabolic in shape,
intended to receive electronic signals from a satellite. This shall also
include any pedestal or attached structure.
      SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PRIMARY or SECONDARY SCHOOL. An educational
institution primarily for persons between the ages of five and 19 that
primarily provides state-required or state-funded educational programs.
      SCREENING. A year-round vegetative material of substantial height and
density designed to buffer two uses from each other. See requirements in §
155.152(D) of this chapter.
      SELF-STORAGE DEVELOPMENT. A building or group of buildings divided into
individual separate access units which are rented or leased for the storage of
personal and small business property.
      SEPTAGE. Materials pumped from a residential on-lot septic treatment
system that was installed and is maintained in compliance with DER regulations.
      SETBACK LINE.
         (a)   The line within a lot defining the required minimum distance
between any structure to be erected or use to be developed and the adjacent
street right-of-way or exterior lot line (when the property is not abutted by a
right-of-way). Such line shall be measured at right angles from and parallel to
the front lot line.
         (b)   Any building setbacks shall be measured from the foundation,
exterior wall or other component of a structure that is closest to the right-
of-way line or lot line from which the setback is being measured. See
exceptions for eaves and cornices in §
155.152(B) of this chapter.
         (c)   Unless otherwise stated, setback distances are for both
accessory and principal structures.
         (d)   For a building setback measured from a private street, the
SETBACK shall be measured from the right-of-way of such a street, if a right-
of-way exists. If a private street does not have a right-of-way, the SETBACK
shall be measured from the edge of the cartway.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system to collect, treat and dispose of sewage.
No such system shall be permitted that does not comply with local, state and
federal requirements.
         (a)   PUBLIC SEWER SERVICE. Service at the time of occupancy of a use
by a central sewage treatment plant that is owned by a governmental agency or
municipal authority.
         (b)   ON-LOT OR NON-PUBLIC SEWER SERVICE. Any form of sewage service
permitted under local, state and federal law that does not meet the definition
of “public sewer service”.
      SEWAGE SLUDGE or SLUDGE. The treated, conditioned digested accumulated
settled solids deposited as a result of sewage treatment processes that occur
within the requirements of a state or federal environmental pollution or on-lot
septic system permit. This shall only include substances adequately stabilized
so that they are suitable for land application.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A use combining four or more retail or personal service
uses. Such a use may also include offices.
      SIGHT DISTANCE. An area required to be kept free of visual obstruction.
See §
155.152 of this chapter.
      SIGN. Any device for visual communication that is used for the purpose of
attracting attention from the public and that is visible from beyond an
exterior lot line, including all symbols, words, models, displays, banners,
flags, devices or representations. See definitions of types of SIGNS in §§
155.212 and
155.220 of this chapter. This shall not include displays that only involve
symbols that are clearly and entirely religious in nature, and which do not
include advertising.
      SIGN AREA. See §
155.220 of this chapter.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to an object, product,
service, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business that is
primarily offered or located at a location other than the lot upon which the
sign is located. See also BILLBOARD.
      SITE PLAN REVIEW. Review of a site plan by the Planning Commission and/or
the Borough Council that is required for certain uses under §
155.030 of this chapter.
      SLAUGHTER HOUSE. A use involving the killing of animals for the
production of food or some other commercial product. A commercial stockyard or
similar facility that primarily involves the bulk storage or transferring of
animals on the way to slaughter shall also be considered a SLAUGHTER HOUSE.
This shall not include a custom “butcher shop” that does not involve killing of
animals (which is a retail sales use).
      SLOPE. The vertical change of an area of land divided by the horizontal
change, measured in percent.
      SLUDGE OR SEPTAGE APPLICATION. The application of sewage sludge and/or
septage to land for its plant nutrient value or as a soil conditioner.
      SOLICITOR. Unless otherwise stated, shall mean the appointed Solicitor to
the Borough Council.
      SOLID WASTE.
         (a)   Any garbage, refuse, sewage sludge or other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, institutional, public, household, commercial or mining
activities;
         (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following materials shall
not be considered to be SOLID WASTE:
            1.   Portions of trees or shrubs, leaves, mulch and rocks;
            2.   Substances legally disposed of into the air or water through a
federal or state pollution discharge permit;
            3.   Customary residual wastes from a permitted mineral extraction
use; or
            4.   Materials of a character such as paper, plastic, aluminum and
metal that have been separated from the waste stream for recycling.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.
         (a)   Land or structures where solid waste is processed, incinerated
or disposed of. This shall only include the following facilities, each of which
shall be required to have all permits required by the state in place prior to
initiation of the use: sanitary landfill; solid waste transfer facility; or
solid waste-to-energy facility.
         (b)   The following uses for the purposes of this chapter shall not be
considered to be a SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: junkyard; recycling
collection center; leaf composting; clean fill; or septage or sludge
application.
      SOLID WASTE-TO-ENERGY FACILITY. A type of “solid waste disposal facility”
that utilizes waste (such as trash, sludge or any other non-hazardous
commercial, residential or industrial materials) as a fuel to produce usable
energy (such as steam or electricity) in bulk to be marketed for reuse to
offset disposal costs. Also see the definitions of each of these terms in Title
25 of the state’s DER regulations.
      SOLID WASTE TRANSFER FACILITY. A type of “solid waste disposal facility”
which receives and temporarily stores solid waste at a location other than the
generation site, and which facilitates the bulk transfer of accumulated solid
waste to a facility for further processing or disposal, and which may or may
not involve the separation of recyclables from solid waste. Also see the
definitions of each of these terms in Title 25 of the state’s DER regulations.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use for which the Zoning Hearing Board may grant
permission following a public hearing and findings of fact consistent with this
chapter; provided, the use complies with the conditions and standards required
by this chapter. See §
155.028 of this chapter.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. One or more of the following:
         (a)   Human male genitals in an obvious state of sexual stimulation;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral sex or
sodomy; and/or
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals.
      STABLE, NON-HOUSEHOLD. Any housing of more than two horses. This may
include a commercial or private riding club. The housing of one or two horses
shall be considered an accessory use under the “keeping of pets”. (See §
155.137 of this chapter.)
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and its agencies.
      STATE PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania State Municipalities Planning Code,
Act 247 of 1968, as amended.
      STORY and HALF-STORY. A level of a building accessible to humans having
an average vertical clearance six feet or greater shall be considered a FULL
STORY, except as provided for in the definition of “basement”. Any level of a
building having an average vertical clearance of less than six feet shall be
considered a HALF-STORY.
      STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords principal means of
access to abutting properties or that is an expressway, but not including an
alley or a driveway. The terms STREET, HIGHWAY and ROAD have the same meaning
and are used interchangeably.
      STREET CENTERLINE. The center of the existing street right-of-way or,
where such cannot be determined, the center of the traveled cartway.
      STREET CLASSIFICATION. The functional classification of streets into the
following types, as shown on the Official Street Classification Map in §
155.067 of this chapter for existing streets and as determined by the Borough
Engineer for future streets.
         (a)   ARTERIAL. A street whose function is to provide for the movement
of high volumes of through-traffic and direct access to abutting properties;
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use.
         (b)   COLLECTOR. A street which provides for the movement of moderate
volumes of traffic between arterials and local roads and direct access to
abutting property.
         (c)   EXPRESSWAY. A limited access street on which access is provided
only at interchanges.
         (d)   LOCAL. A street whose function is to provide for local traffic
movement with relatively low volumes and direct access to abutting properties.
      STREET, PROPOSED. A street which is planned or approved, but not yet open
to traffic.
      STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary
location on, below or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land,
subject to the following specific standards:
         (a)   The following specifically shall be considered to be STRUCTURES:
buildings; signs; stadiums; platforms; communications towers; walkways, porches
or decks that are covered by a permanent structure; swimming pools (whether
above or below ground); storage sheds; carports; and garages; and
         (b)   Any STRUCTURE shall be subject to the principal or accessory
setbacks of this chapter, as applicable, unless specifically exempted or unless
a specific setback is established for that particular type of structure by this
chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. See the definition in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. The Tatamy Borough Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, as amended. See
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      SWIMMING POOL, HOUSEHOLD OR PRIVATE. A human-made area with walls of
human- made materials intended to enclose water at least 18 inches deep for
bathing or swimming and that is intended to serve the residents of only one
dwelling unit and their occasional guests.
      SWIMMING POOL, NON-HOUSEHOLD.
         (a)   A human-made area with walls of human-made materials intended to
enclose water at least 18 inches deep for bathing or swimming and that does not
meet the definition of a “household” swimming pool. This includes:
            1.   A “semi-public” pool that serves only residents of a
development or members of a club and their occasional guests; or
            2.   A “public” pool intended to serve the general public.
         (b)   See also the provisions for “recreational facilities” limited to
use by employees of a use or residents of a development as an accessory use,
which may include a swimming pool, at the end of §
155.070 of this chapter.
      TAVERN. A place where alcoholic beverages are served as a primary or
substantial portion of the total trade. The sale of food may also occur. See
also the definitions of RESTAURANTS and AUDITORIUMS.
      THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to the showing of
motion pictures or theatrical or performing arts productions as a principal
use, but not including an outdoor drive-in theater or adult movie theater.
      THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An outdoor area devoted primarily to the
showing of motion pictures or theatrical productions to patrons seated in motor
vehicles or outdoors.
      TIRE STORAGE, BULK. The storage of more than 250 tires on a lot, except
for manufacture or wholesale or retail sales of new tires.
      TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING TYPES.
      TRACT. In certain districts, the tract is the minimum amount of adjacent
land area (which may be separated by alleys, streets or waterways) within the
borough that is required to be approved as part of an overall preliminary
subdivision or land development plan in order to allow certain types of uses or
to allow the creation of lots smaller than a certain specified lot area. An
area of land shall meet the following requirements in order to be considered a
TRACT:
         (a)   Shall only include lands within an approved preliminary plan
that includes a well-defined internal circulation system, maximum coordination
between lots and carefully limited points of vehicular access onto streets
exterior to the tract; and
         (b)   Shall only include lands that at the time of the approval of the
preliminary plan have one “landowner” (as defined hereby), unless the applicant
proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer that there is a legally
binding commitment between two or more “landowners” to coordinate the access
and development of the tract as shown in the approved preliminary plan.
      TRADE SCHOOL. A facility that is primarily intended for education of a
work-related skill or craft or a hobby and that does not primarily provide
state-required education to persons under age 16. This shall include a dancing
school, martial arts school or ceramics school.
      TRUCK TERMINAL. A use involving a large variety of materials, including
materials owned by numerous corporations, being transported to a site to be
unloaded primarily from and reloaded onto tractor-trailer trucks.
         (a)   A use that primarily involves loading materials from tractor-
trailers onto smaller trucks or smaller trucks onto tractor-trailers shall be
considered a “distribution” use.
         (b)   A TRUCK TERMINAL may include the following as clearly accessory
uses if they are closely related to the principal use: repair, washing,
refueling and maintenance facilities for trucks using the terminal;
administrative uses for the terminal; and rest facilities for drivers of trucks
using the terminal.
      USE. The purpose, activity, occupation, business or operation for which
land or a structure is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
USES specifically include, but are not limited to, the following: activity
within a building, activity outside of a building, any structure, recreational
vehicle storage or parking of commercial vehicles on a lot.
      VARIANCE. The granting of specific permission by the Zoning Hearing Board
to use, construct, expand or alter land or structures in such a way that
compliance is not required with a specific requirement of this chapter. Any
VARIANCE shall be only be granted within the limitations of the state’s
Municipalities Planning Code.
      VETERINARIAN OFFICE. A building routinely used for the treatment of
animals and related housing or boarding of sick animals. Treatment of “small
animals” includes only small domestic animals, including, but not limited to,
dogs, cats, rabbits, birds or fowl. Treatment of “large animals” includes all
types of animals including horses, cows and pigs. The housing primarily of
healthy animals shall be considered a “kennel” and shall meet the requirements
of that use.
      WALL. See FENCE.
      WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings primarily used for the indoor
storage, transfer and distribution of products and materials, but not including
retail uses or a truck terminal, unless such uses are specifically permitted in
that zoning district.
      WATER SYSTEM. A system designed to transmit water from a source to users,
in compliance with the requirements of the appropriate state agencies and the
borough.
         (a)   ON-LOT OR NON-PUBLIC WATER SERVICE. Service by a water system
that does not meet the definition of a “public water service”. In most cases,
this would involve an individual well serving an individual lot, but may also
include a common well or another duly approved system.
         (b)   PUBLIC WATER SERVICE. Service by a central water system that is
owned and operated by a municipal authority or a water company with a service
area defined by the state’s Public Utility Commission which transmits water
from a common source to more than 50 dwellings or principal uses.
      WETLANDS. An area of land and/or water meeting one or more definitions of
a WETLAND under federal and/or state law and/or regulations. (Note: as of 1990,
the following was the official U.S. Army Corps of Engineers definition of
WETLANDS: “Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs
and similar areas.” WETLANDS are technically defined on the basis of types of
vegetation and soils and the level of the water table below the surface. As of
1990, the regulations are enforced by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the state’s Department of Environmental
Resources.)
      WHOLESALE. Sales that primarily involve transactions with other
businesses and their agents and not to the general public.
      WILDLIFE SANCTUARY. A non-commercial preservation of land for providing
wildlife habitats, forests or scenic natural features that involves no
buildings other than a nature education and/or study center and customary
maintenance buildings.
      YARD. An area not covered by buildings and that is on the same lot as the
subject structure or use. Regulations of specific districts prohibit principal
and accessory structures within specified required minimum yards.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard between the front lot line (which usually is the
future street right-of-way line) and the closest portion of the subject
structure or use and that extends the full width of the lot and from side lot
line to side lot line.
         (a)   The FRONT YARD shall be on a side that faces towards a public
street, whenever one public street abuts the lot.
         (b)   When a lot abuts onto two or more public streets, the applicant
may choose which is the FRONT YARD, unless the Zoning Officer determines that
the FRONT YARD should follow the clearly predominant front yard orientation of
the development of abutting lots.
         (c)   No accessory or principal structure shall extend into the
required front yard, except as provided in this chapter.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full-width of the lot and situated
between the rear line and the closest portion of the subject building, and
stretching between the side lot lines parallel to the rear lot line. A
principal building shall not extend into the required REAR YARD for a principal
building and an accessory structure shall not extend into the required REAR
YARD for an accessory structure, except as provided in this chapter.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard situated between the closest portion of the subject
building and the entire length of the side lot line, and extending from the
front lot line to the rear lot line. A structure shall not extend into the
applicable minimum SIDE YARD, except as provided for in this chapter.
      ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning Map of Tatamy Borough, Northampton
County, Pennsylvania.
      ZONING OFFICER. The administrative officer charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, or his or her officially designated
assistant(s).
      ZONING ORDINANCE. The Tatamy Borough Zoning Ordinance, as amended.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 202; Ord. 157-1993, passed 4-5-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.020 PERMITS; GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   After receiving a proper application, the Zoning Officer shall
either:
         (a)   Issue the permit under this chapter; or
         (b)   Refuse the permit indicating the reason.
      (2)   If specifically requested in writing by an applicant, reasons for a
refusal shall then be stated in writing.
   (B)   Certain activities require review and/or approval of the Zoning
Hearing Board and/or of the Borough Council, and/or the recommendations of the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   If refused a permit by the Zoning Officer, the applicant may appeal to
the Zoning Hearing Board for further consideration.
   (D)   After the permit under this chapter has been received by the
applicant, the applicant may undertake the action permitted by the permit under
this chapter, within other borough ordinances. However, it is recommended that
applicants wait 30 days to begin construction if there is a possibility of an
appeal by another party to have the permit revoked. Any commencement of
construction or a use within this 30-day appeal period shall be at the risk of
the applicant.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 108)
§ 155.021 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Applicability. Any of the following activities or any other activity
regulated by this chapter shall only be carried out after receipt of any
required approval or permit and in compliance with this chapter:
      (1)   Erection, construction, movement, placement or extension of a
structure, building or sign;
      (2)   Change of the type of use or expansion of the use of a structure or
area of land; and/or
      (3)   Creation of a lot or alteration of lot lines.
   (B)   Exemption. Ordinary repairs and maintenance to existing structures
that do not infringe upon a required setback may be made without a permit under
this chapter, if such work does not involve a change in use or an expansion,
construction or placement of a structure and does not involve any other
activity regulated by this chapter.
   (C)   Types of uses.
      (1)   Permitted by right uses. The Zoning Officer shall issue a permit
under this chapter in response to an application for a use that is “permitted
by right” if it meets all of the requirements of this chapter, including any
specific additional requirements listed for that use in §§
155.136 and
155.137 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special exception use or use requiring a variance. A permit under
this chapter for a use requiring a special exception or variance shall be
issued by the Zoning Officer only upon the written order of the Zoning Hearing
Board after a hearing.
      (3)   Conditional use. A permit under this chapter for a conditional use
shall be issued by the Zoning Officer only upon the written order of the
Borough Council, after the Planning Commission has been given an opportunity to
review the application.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Any request for a decision, interpretation or variance by the
Zoning Hearing Board or for a permit under this chapter shall be made in
writing on a form provided by the borough. Such completed application, with any
required fees, and with any required site plans or other required information,
shall be submitted to a borough employee responsible for processing such
application. The applicant is responsible to ensure that a responsible borough
official notes the date of the official receipt on the application.
      (2)   Six copies of a site plan shall be submitted if an application
requires action by the Zoning Hearing Board, and three copies shall be
submitted in action by the Board is not required. Such site plan shall be drawn
to scale.
      (3)   If an application does not require action by the Zoning Hearing
Board, then the site plan shall show the following, unless the Zoning Officer
determines that such a plan is unnecessary for determination of whether the
proposal complies with this chapter:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of the lot;
         (b)   Existing and proposed locations, dimensions and uses of
structures and/or areas of land;
         (c)   Name and address of the applicant or appellant;
         (d)   Name and address of the owner of the affected property;
         (e)   Such additional information that the Zoning Officer may
determine is reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this chapter;
and
         (f)   All other applicable information listed on the official borough
application form.
      (4)   If an application requires action by the Zoning Hearing Board, then
the site plan shall show the following, unless the Zoning Officer determines
that such information is unnecessary for determination of whether the proposal
complies with this chapter:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of the lot;
         (b)   Existing and proposed locations, dimensions and uses of
structures and/or areas of land;
         (c)   Name and address of the applicant or appellant;
         (d)   Name and address of the owner of the affected property;
         (e)   Such additional information that the Zoning Officer may
determine is reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this chapter;
         (f)   All other applicable information listed on the official borough
application form;
         (g)   The present zoning district and major applicable lot
requirements; and
         (h)   A description of the proposed use of the property and a listing
of any sections of this chapter being appealed, with the reasons for any
appeal.
      (5)   The Zoning Officer may withhold issuance of a permit under this
chapter if there is clear knowledge by him or her that such a use would violate
another borough, state or federal law or regulation.
      (6)   No person other than a landowner or his, her or their specifically
authorized agent or a tenant or leasee with written permission of the landowner
shall submit a zoning application. (See definition of “landowner” in §
155.008 of this chapter.)
      (7)   The Zoning Officer may submit a copy of any plan and application to
any appropriate agencies and/or individuals (such as the Planning Commission or
Borough Engineer) for review and comment.
   (E)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   At least three copies of any permit required under this chapter
shall be made.
      (2)   One copy of any such permit shall be retained in borough files and
one copy shall be retained by the applicant. A copy of any such permit shall be
shown by the applicant to the Zoning Officer upon the Zoning Officer’s request.
      (3)   (a)   After the issuance of a permit under this chapter by the
Zoning Officer or any related borough approval, no changes of any kind shall be
made to the approved application without the written consent of the Zoning
Officer. Changes of a site plan approved by the Zoning Hearing Board or Borough
Council shall require approval of the changes by such bodies if the Zoning
Officer determines that such changes significantly affect matters that were
within their review.
         (b)   Such approval by the Hearing Board or Council is not required
for minor technical adjustments or corrections of plans, as determined by the
Zoning Officer.
   (F)   Revocation of permits. The Zoning Officer shall revoke a permit or
approval issued under the provisions of this chapter in case of:
      (1)   Any false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application
or on the plans on which the permit or approval was based; (The state’s
Criminal Code provides for penalties for providing false information to a
municipal employee in the carrying out of his or her duties.)
      (2)   Upon violation of any condition lawfully imposed upon a special
exception or conditional use;
      (3)   Any work being accomplished or use of land or structures in such a
way that does not comply with this chapter or an approved site plan or approved
permit application; or
      (4)   For any other just cause set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   Temporary permit. See §
155.156 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 109)
§ 155.022 ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Zoning Officer(s) shall be appointed by the Borough
Council. The Zoning Officer(s) shall not hold any elective office within the
borough, but may hold other appointed offices.
   (B)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall:
         (a)   Administer this chapter;
         (b)   Receive and examine all applications required under the terms of
this chapter, and issue or refuse permits within this chapter;
         (c)   Receive complaints of violation of this chapter, and issue a
written notice of violation to any person violating any provision of this
chapter; and
         (d)   Keep records of applications, permits, certificates, written
decisions and interpretations issued, of variances granted by the Board, of
complaints received, of inspections made, of reports rendered and of notice or
orders issued; and make all required inspections and perform all other duties
as called for in this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall not have the power to permit any activity
which does not conform to this chapter, or all other ordinances of the borough.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 110)
§ 155.023 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Council generally. Borough Council may amend, challenge or repeal any
or all portions of this chapter on:
      (1)   Its own motion; or
      (2)   Upon agreeing to hear a written request of any person, entity or
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Public hearing by Council. Before voting on the enactment of an
amendment, the Borough Council shall hold a public hearing thereon, following
the procedural requirements of the state’s Planning Code, including public
notice.
   (C)   Planning Commission. In the case of an amendment other than that
prepared by or under the direction of the Planning Commission, the Borough
Council shall submit each such amendment to the Planning Commission at least 30
days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment and permit the Commission
an opportunity to provide recommendations.
   (D)   JPC review.
      (1)   The Borough Council or Planning Commission shall submit the
proposed amendment to the Joint Planning Commission (JPC) for recommendations
at least 30 days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Borough Council until any JPC
comments are received, unless 30 days pass without such comments being
received.
   (E)   Changes after a hearing. If, after any public hearing held upon an
amendment, the proposed amendment is revised, or further revised, to include or
exclude land previously not affected by it, the Borough Council shall hold
another public hearing, pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on
the amendment.
   (F)   Application for amendment. Any request for amendment of this chapter
(including supplement, change or repeal) by any person or entity (other than
the borough staff, Planning Commission, Borough Council or committee appointed
by the Borough Council or under the direct oversight of such entity) shall
include the following:
      (1)   A statement of why the change would be in the best interests of the
borough;
      (2)   A statement of how the proposal will relate to the Borough
Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   A statement addressing any adverse affects on adjacent residences;
      (4)   A statement addressing any major traffic access or congestion
concerns;
      (5)   A map showing the proposed boundaries of any proposed map changes,
the existing zoning of the land and of adjacent lands and the current uses of
adjacent lots; and
      (6)   A statement explaining proposed extensions and major improvements,
if needed, of public water and sewer systems to serve the land area.
   (G)   Traffic impact report. The Planning Commission or the Borough Council
may require an applicant for a zoning amendment to fund a traffic impact study
following standard methods and completed by a qualified traffic engineer. Such
a study shall take into account the entire land area proposed for a change,
with an emphasis on the net projected traffic increases from the proposed
amendment compared to the existing zoning, based upon reasonable assumptions
about the intensity and type of development.
   (H)   Notification of proposed zoning map amendment. If a zoning map
amendment is requested by a private entity and is not considered at the same
public hearing as zoning map amendments proposed by borough officials, then at
least ten days prior to the hearing the proposed change, the applicant shall
send or have delivered in person written notice of the proposed change and the
hearing date to all owners of record of all property proposed to be rezoned and
all property directly abutting the land to be rezoned.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 114)
§ 155.024 CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of this chapter which prohibits or restricts the use or development of
land in which he has an interest, may submit a curative amendment to the
Borough Council with a written request that this challenge and proposed
amendment be heard and decided as provided in the Municipalities Planning Code.
   (B)   For a curative amendment request, the applicant shall pay the borough
all fees required under the applicable borough fee schedule and, at a minimum,
shall compensate the borough for all actual expenses for legal advertising.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 115)
§ 155.025 FILING FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Borough Council has established by resolution a schedule of fees
and a collection procedure relating to all applications filed pertaining to
this chapter.
   (B)   No application or appeal shall be considered filed until all fees are
paid.
   (C)   This fee schedule may be based upon the type of application and the
breath of the proposed development including acreage, numbers of lots and type
of use, to most accurately reflect the borough’s actual costs.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 116)
§ 155.026 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; REMEDY.
   See §§ 616 and 617 of the Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 117)
§ 155.027 CONDITIONAL USE PROCESS.
   (A)   Applicability. Certain uses that are permitted by this chapter as
“conditional uses” shall be required to follow the review and zoning approval
procedures described in this section.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   A conditional use submission shall not be considered officially
accepted for review until any needed zoning variance(s) or special exception
approval that is directly relevant to the site layout and nature of the use is
received. The applicant may request an informal review by the Planning
Commission of a site plan prior to requesting variances or a special exception.
      (2)   Ten complete copies of any required site plan meeting the
requirements of §
155.031 of this chapter shall be submitted to the borough. The Zoning Officer
shall refuse to accept an incomplete application which does not provide
sufficient information to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   A conditional use approval by itself shall not relieve the
applicant of any obligation under a borough ordinance, nor constitute a
recommendation for a zoning variance.
      (4)   The borough shall distribute copies of the site plan to the
Planning Commission and the Borough Council. A minimum of one copy shall be
retained in the borough files. The Borough Fire Services should be given an
opportunity for a review, if deemed appropriate by the Zoning Officer.
      (5)   The Zoning Officer or his or her designee shall report in writing
or in person to the Planning Commission or Borough Council stating whether the
proposal complies with this chapter. The borough staff, Planning Commission or
Borough Council may request a review by the Borough Engineer.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall be given an opportunity to review the
conditional use application and submit a recommendation to the Borough Council
prior to action of the Borough Council.
      (7)   The Borough Council shall not act to approve or deny a conditional
use application until they have received the reports of the Zoning Officer and
the Planning Commission, unless a period of 60 days has passed from the date of
the application.
      (8)   The Borough Council shall approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the conditional use submission within 90 days from the date of the
first regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting following the submission
of a complete and proper application, unless the applicant has agreed to an
extended review period. In granting a conditional use, the Borough Council may
require such reasonable conditions and safeguards (in addition to those
expressed in this chapter) as it determines are necessary to implement the
purposes of this chapter.
      (9)   The decision of the Borough Council shall be in writing and shall
be directly communicated to, delivered to or mailed to the last known address
of the applicant or his or her representative.
   (C)   Approval of conditional uses. The Borough Council shall approve any
proposed conditional use if it finds adequate evidence that the proposed use
will meet:
      (1)   All of the standards listed in §
155.027 of this chapter;
      (2)   Any specific standards for the proposed use listed in §§
155.135 through
155.137 of this chapter;
      (3)   All other applicable sections of this chapter; and
      (4)   Generally be capable of meeting applicable sections of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances and all other applicable borough
ordinances.
   (D)   Standard for decisions. Each conditional or special exception use
shall comply with all of the following standards:
      (1)   Other laws. Not clearly in conflict with other borough ordinances
or state or federal laws or regulations known to the borough;
      (2)   Traffic. Will not result in or significantly add to a significant
traffic hazard or significant traffic congestion;
      (3)   Safety. Will not create a significant public safety hazard,
including fire, toxic or explosive hazards;
      (4)   Storm water management. Will follow adequate and professionally
accepted engineering methods to manage storm water. This shall not be a
criteria of a decision under this chapter if the application clearly would be
subject to a separate engineering review and an approval of storm water
management by the Borough Council under another borough ordinance;
      (5)   Neighborhood. Will not significantly negatively affect the
desirable character of an existing residential neighborhood;
      (6)   Design. Will involve adequate site design methods, including
screening, setbacks and traffic control, to avoid significant negative impacts
on adjacent uses; and
      (7)   Performance standards. Will not have a serious threat of future
inability to comply with the performance standards of this chapter, as stated
in §§
155.170 through
155.181 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 118)
§ 155.028 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PROCESS.
   (A)   Purpose. The special exception process is designed to allow careful
review of uses that have some potential of conflicts with adjacent uses or
areas.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   All applicants for a special exception use shall submit eight sets
of site plans for the proposed use to the Secretary to the Zoning Hearing Board
together with a written application. The Zoning Officer may waive the site plan
requirement for home occupations that are not intense and other uses not
involving new construction, nor additional off-street parking. Photographs of
the existing site or buildings may also be requested to be presented by the
applicant.
      (2)   All site plans shall contain the information required in §
155.021 of this chapter.
      (3)   The borough shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission, Zoning Hearing Board and its solicitor. A minimum of one copy shall
be retained in the borough files.
      (4)   The Zoning Officer should, prior to the next Zoning Hearing Board
meeting where the application will be discussed, review the plan to determine
compliance with this chapter and report these findings to the Zoning Hearing
Board.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall be given an opportunity to review the
proposed special exception use at its next regular meeting and submit an
advisory recommendation to the Zoning Hearing Board. However, the Zoning
Hearing Board may rule on the case without receiving a review by the Planning
Commission if such decision by the Board must be made at such time to comply
with the time restrictions of this section.
      (6)   The Board shall review any reports or recommendations that may have
been received from the Zoning Officer and/or Planning Commission.
      (7)   The Board shall hear and decide such request for a special
exception use under the procedures of §
155.028 of this chapter and the state’s Planning Code. The Board shall schedule
the first hearing within 60 days of a proper application, unless granted a
written extension by the applicant. The Board shall issue a decision within 45
days after the conclusion of the final hearing on the matter.
      (8)   The decision of the Board shall be in writing and shall be
communicated to the applicant or his, her or their representative in accordance
herewith.
      (9)   A site plan review by the Planning Commission and the Borough
Council may also be required for certain uses. See §
155.030 of this chapter.
   (C)   Approval of special exception uses. The Zoning Hearing Board shall
approve any proposed special exception use if they find adequate evidence that
any proposed use will meet:
      (1)   All of the standards listed in §
155.027(D) of this chapter;
      (2)   All of the specific standards for the proposed use listed in §§
155.135 through
155.137 of this chapter; and
      (3)   All other applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Conditions, safeguards. In granting a special exception, the Board may
require such reasonable conditions and safeguards (in addition to those
expressed in this chapter) as it determines is necessary to implement the
purposes of this chapter. Conditions imposed by the Zoning Hearing Board shall
automatically become conditions of the construction permit issued pursuant
thereto, and any failure to comply with said conditions shall be a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 119)
§ 155.029 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Neither the approval nor the granting of any review, issuance of
permit or approval related to construction, activity within the floodplain,
site plan review, subdivision or land development approval, erosion control,
storm water runoff, activity on steep slopes or any other review or permit of
this chapter, by an officer, employee, consultant or agency of the borough,
shall constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the
borough, or its employees, officials, consultants or agencies, of the
practicality or safety of any structure, use or subdivision, and shall create
no liability upon, nor a cause of action against such public body, official,
consultant nor employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
   (B)   If the Zoning Officer mistakenly issues a permit under this chapter,
the borough shall not be liable for any later lawful withdrawal of such permit
for valid cause shown.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 120)
§ 155.030 SITE PLAN REVIEW FOR MAJOR USES NOT REQUIRING CONDITIONAL USE,
SUBDIVISION OR LAND DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applicability. This section requires a site plan review by the
Planning Commission and Borough Council for any of the following uses if such
use is not required to be approved as a conditional use, as a subdivision or as
a land development:
      (1)   Any expansion of more than 2,000 square feet in the floor area of a
structure of one of the following types:
         (a)   Industrial, office or commercial building or use;
         (b)   School, place of worship or institutional building; or
         (c)   Animal husbandry.
      (2)   Any new or expanded paved area of greater than 5,000 square feet;
      (3)   Conversion of a non-commercial or non-industrial building to a new
principal commercial use; and
      (4)   Any change from one commercial or industrial use to a different
commercial or industrial use that would require the addition of at least 15
off-street parking spaces beyond what was previously provided.
   (B)   Procedures. The following procedures shall be followed for any use
required to be reviewed under this section.
      (1)   Submission. Eight complete copies of any required site plan shall
be submitted to the borough. The Zoning Officer shall refuse to accept an
application if it does not contain sufficient information to determine
compliance with this chapter. A minimum of one copy shall be retained in
borough files.
      (2)   Time. The Planning Commission shall be given an opportunity to
review the site plan and provide any advisory comments in writing to the Zoning
Officer and the Borough Council. The Borough Council shall review the site plan
and provide any advisory comments in writing within 90 days after the first
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting after the receipt of a complete
site plan submission, unless the applicant grants a written time extension.
      (3)   Effect. A site plan review by Borough Council or the Planning
Commission shall not by itself constitute official action by the borough.
      (4)   Review. The Zoning Officer shall review the site plan and determine
its compliance or non- compliance with this chapter, based upon his or her
review and any comments of the Borough Council and Planning Commission.
      (5)   Compliance. Once a site plan is reviewed by the borough and found
to be in compliance with this chapter by the Zoning Officer, the applicant or
his or her successor shall comply with that approved site plan. Any changes to
the site plan shall be resubmitted to the borough for approval under this
section, except for changes that the Zoning Officer determines and states in
writing are minor corrections of information or clearly minor adjustments that
do not affect the overall site plan.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 121)
§ 155.031 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USES AND MAJOR USES REQUIRING
SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   The following information, as applicable, shall be submitted by the
applicant for any conditional use or any use required to submit a site plan
under §
155.030 of this chapter, except for information waived by the Planning
Commission as not applicable or necessary:
   (A)   A statement describing the proposed use;
   (B)   Layout: a site layout drawn to scale (preferably one inch equals 50
feet) showing the location, dimensions and area of each lot; the location,
dimensions and height of proposed and any existing structures; the required
setback areas; the location and width of proposed or abutting streets; and the
proposed areas to be used for different purposes within the development,
including outdoor storage or display areas;
   (C)   Landscaping: the width of any buffer yard and the heights, spacing and
types of plants to be used for screening. General numbers, locations and types
of landscaping to be provided in off-street parking lots, along streets and in
other areas;
   (D)   Parking: the locations and numbers of parking spaces; the location,
direction and widths of aisles; the location and sizes of off-street loading
areas. The method of calculating the off-street parking requirement shall be
shown, based upon §
155.195 of this chapter;
   (E)   Lighting and signs: the height, location and approximate intensity of
exterior lighting. The sign area, height, location and method of lighting of
signs;
   (F)   Sidewalks: the location and width of any proposed sidewalks and
curbing;
   (G)   Utilities: general proposed method of providing wastewater treatment
and water supply;
   (H)   Nuisances and safety: a description of any proposed industrial or
commercial operations or storage in sufficient detail to indicate potential
nuisances and hazards regarding noise, large trucks, glare, air pollution,
odors, fire or toxic or explosive hazards or other significant hazards to the
public health and safety;
   (I)   Grading and storm water: proposed and existing contours if any earth
disturbance is proposed. Identification of any slopes between 15% and 25% and
greater than 25%. Proposed method of managing storm water runoff. See §
155.157 of this chapter. Delineation of any floodplains from the official
floodplain maps;
   (J)   A location map showing the boundaries of the project and its relation
to surrounding streets. Lot lines of abutting lots within 50 feet of the
project, with identification of abutting land uses;
   (K)   Zoning district and major applicable requirements;
   (L)   Name and address of the person who prepared the site plan, the
applicant and the owner of record of the land; and
   (M)   Such other data or information as the Zoning Officer, Planning
Commission or Borough Council deem is reasonably necessary to determine
compliance with borough ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 122)
ZONING HEARING BOARD; VARIANCES; HEARINGS AND APPEALS
§ 155.045 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall be continued and shall consist of three
residents of the borough appointed by the Borough Council, unless a differing
number of members are authorized by another valid borough ordinance. Alternate
members may be appointed within the provisions of the state’s Municipalities
Planning Code.
   (B)   Board members shall serve terms of three years, so fixed that the term
of office of no more than one member expires each year.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall hold no elected office in the borough.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.046 VACANCIES.
   The Board shall promptly notify the Borough Council of any vacancies which
occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the unexpired portion
of a term.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.047 MEMBER REMOVAL.
   See § 905 of the Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.048 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Officers. The Board shall elect officers from its own membership
officers shall serve annual terms and may succeed themselves.
   (B)   Quorum. For the conduct of any hearing and taking of any action, a
quorum shall be not less than a majority of all members of the Board; except
that, the Board may appoint a hearing officer from its own membership to
conduct any hearing on its behalf and the parties may waive further action by
the Board, as provided by the state’s Municipalities Planning Code.
   (C)   Rules. The Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with all applicable borough ordinances and state law.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.049 FUNCTIONS.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall be responsible for the following.
   (A)   Appeal of a decision by the Zoning Officer.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the
appellant (a person affected or any agency of the borough) that the Zoning
Officer has failed to follow prescribed procedures or has misinterpreted or
misapplied any valid provision of this chapter.
      (2)   See time limitations for appeals in §
155.054 of this chapter.
   (B)   Challenge to the validity of the ordinance or map.
      (1)   The Board shall hear challenges to the validity of this chapter
filed with the Board in writing by the landowner affected, any officer or
agency of the borough, or any person aggrieved.
      (2)   After the conclusion of the hearing(s), the Board shall decide all
questions and shall make findings on all relevant issues of fact, within the
time limits of the Municipalities Planning Code.
   (C)   Variance.
      (1)   The Board shall hear requests for variances filed with the Board in
writing by any landowner (or any tenant with the permission of such landowner).
      (2)   The Board may grant a variance only within the limitations of state
law as of 1990, the Municipalities Planning Code; provided that, all of the
following findings must be made, where relevant:
         (a)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions (including
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property)
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this chapter
in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
         (b)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is
no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and a variance is therefore necessary to enable the
reasonable use of the property;
         (c)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant;
         (d)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
         (e)   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance
that will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of
the regulation in issue.
      (3)   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this chapter.
   (D)   Special exception.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and decide requests for all special exceptions
filed with the Board in writing by any landowner (or any tenant with the
permission of such landowner), as provided in this chapter and in accordance
with such standards and criteria contained in this chapter.
      (2)   In granting a special exception, the Zoning Hearing Board may
attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to those
expressed in the ordinance, as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes
and intent of this chapter.
   (E)   Hearings. The Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in
accordance with §
155.053 of this chapter and the Municipalities Planning Code.
   (F)   Records and reports. The Board shall keep full public records of its
business.
   (G)   Court appeals.
      (1)   In the case of an appeal from the Board to the Court of Common
Pleas, the appellant shall make the return required by law, and should promptly
notify the Borough Zoning Hearing Board Solicitor of such appeal.
      (2)   Any decision of the Board not appealed within 30 days after notice
thereof shall be final, except as may be permitted under state law.
   (H)   Appeal by the Zoning Officer. See §
155.022 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.050 TIME LIMITATION FOR APPEALS.
   The time limitations for appeals shall be as follows.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to file any appeal with the Zoning Hearing
Board later than 30 days after the decision by the Zoning Officer that is being
appealed has been officially made, or appeal with the County Court of Common
Pleas later than 30 days after the decision by the Zoning Hearing Board, except
as may be provided for under state law.
   (B)   The failure of an aggrieved person other than the landowner to appeal
an adverse decision directly related to a preliminary subdivision or land
development plan shall preclude an appeal from a final plan approval, except in
the case where the final submission substantially deviates from the approved
preliminary plan.
   (C)   This 30-day time limit for appeals shall not apply to the revocation
of a permit under §
155.021(F) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.051 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   See § 916 of the State Planning Code.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.052 TIME LIMITATIONS ON PERMITS, VARIANCES.
   (A)   After a variance is approved or approval is officially authorized
under this chapter, then a permit shall be secured by the applicant within nine
months after the date of such approval or authorization. Such action under such
permit shall then begin within 12 months of the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   If the applicant submits complete plans for a required site plan
review or subdivision or land development approval or special exception or
conditional use approval that is related to the variance or issuance of a
permit under this chapter within the above time limits, then such time limits
shall begin after such plan review is completed or such plan approval is
granted.
   (C)   For good cause, the Zoning Officer may, upon application in writing
stating the reasons therefore, extend in writing to 18 months the nine-month
application period.
   (D)   If an applicant fails to obtain the necessary permits within the above
time period, or after obtained the permit fail to diligently commence
substantial construction thereunder within such time period, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the applicant has waived, withdrawn or abandoned the
approval, and all such approvals, variances and permits shall be deemed
automatically rescinded.
   (E)   Any building construction shall be completed within 36 months of
issuance of an applicable permit.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 111)
§ 155.053 HEARINGS.
   The Board shall conduct bearings and make decisions in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   Notice of hearings. Notice of all hearings of the Board shall be given
as follows.
      (1)   Public notice shall be published, as defined by § 107 of the
Municipalities Planning Code. The notice shall state the time and place of the
hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be considered.
      (2)   Notice of such hearing shall be conspicuously posted on the
affected tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that such notice is posted and
remains posted until the hearing.
      (3)   Written notice shall be given to the applicant and the Zoning
Officer. Notice should be given to the Planning Commission, Borough Council and
owners of record of property abutting or within 100 feet of the lot lines of
the subject property. Also, such notice shall be given to any other person or
group (including civic or community organizations) who has made a written
timely request for such notice. Any such notices should be mailed or delivered
by a borough representative to the last address known to the borough. Such
notice should be intended to be received at least five days prior to the
hearing date.
      (4)   (a)   In any matter which relates to a property which lies within
250 feet of the boundary of another municipality, except boundaries separated
by a perennial river, and which the borough staff determines may have a
significant impact on that municipality, the borough staff should transmit to
the offices of the adjacent municipality a copy of the official notice of the
public hearing on such matter at least seven days prior to the hearing date.
         (b)   Representatives of such adjacent municipality shall have the
right to appear and be heard at the public hearing.
      (5)   The Borough Council may, by resolution, establish a reasonable fee
schedule, based on cost, to be paid by:
         (a)   The applicant for any notice required by this chapter; and
         (b)   Those persons requesting any notice not required by this
chapter.
   (B)   Parties.
      (1)   The parties to a hearing shall be the borough, any person affected
by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the Board,
and any other person including civic or community organizations permitted to
appear by the Board.
      (2)   The Board shall have power to require that all persons who wish to
be considered parties enter appearances in writing on forms provided by the
Board for that purpose.
   (C)   Oaths and subpoenas. The Chair of the Board or Hearing Officer shall
have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of relevant documents and papers, including
witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
   (D)   Representation by counsel. The parties shall have the right to be
represented by legal counsel and shall be afforded the opportunity to respond
and present evidence and argument and cross-examine adverse witnesses on all
relevant issues.
   (E)   Evidence and record. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded. The
Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall keep a record of the
proceedings as required by state law.
   (F)   Ex parte communications.
      (1)   The Board shall not meet with, visit the site with or directly
communicate with the applicant or any officially protesting party or their
representatives in connection with any issue involved, except if opportunity is
provided for the applicant and any officially protesting party to participate.
      (2)   The Board shall not take notice of any communication, reports,
staff memoranda, or other materials unless the parties are afforded an
opportunity to contest the material so noticed. This restriction shall not
apply to advice from the Board’s solicitor.
   (G)   Planning Commission review. The Zoning Hearing Board may request that
the Planning Commission provide an advisory review on any matter before the
Board.
   (H)   Initiation of hearings. A hearing required under this chapter shall be
initiated within 60 days of the date of an applicant’s request for a hearing,
unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time. A request
for a hearing by an applicant shall not be accepted prior to submission of a
duly filed application.
   (I)   Decision/findings.
      (1)   The Board shall render a written decision or make written findings
(when no decision is called for) on the application, within 45 days after the
last hearing before the Board, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an
extension of time.
      (2)   Where the application is contested or denied, the decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon, together with
the reasons therefor.
      (3)   Any conclusion based on any provision, of the Municipalities
Planning Code or of this chapter, or of any other ordinance, rule or regulation
shall contain a reference to the provision relied on.
   (J)   Notice of decision. A copy of the final decision or a copy of the
findings (when no decision is called for) shall be personally delivered or
mailed to the applicant or his or her representative or his, her or their last
known address.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 112)
§ 155.054 APPEALS.
   (A)   In general. All appeals of this chapter or any action of the Borough
Council or borough officials under this chapter shall conform with Art. X of
the State Planning Code.
   (B)   Procedural defects in enactment. Allegations that this chapter or any
amendment was enacted in a procedural defective manner shall be appealed
directly to the court and be filed not later than 60 days from the intended
effective date of the ordinance or amendment.
   (C)   To the Zoning Hearing Board. Appeals to the Board shall comply with §
155.053 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 113)
DISTRICTS AND PERMITTED USES
§ 155.065 DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the borough is hereby divided into
the following types of zoning districts:
C    Commercial District
CR   Conservation and Recreation District
LDR  Low Density Residential District
LI   Light Industrial District
MDR  Medium Density Residential District
MLDR Medium Low Density Residential District
R-1  Residential District
R-2  Residential District
R-3  Residential District
-    Overlay District
 
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the zoning districts named in
division (A) above shall be of the number, size, shape and location shown on
the “Official Zoning Map”.
   (C)   Any use of the abbreviations listed in division (A) above shall mean
the district name that is listed beside the abbreviation.
   (D)   The floodplain area, as defined by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, shall serve as an overlay area to all
of the underlying districts. The documents and mapping referenced by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, as amended, are hereby included in this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 301)
§ 155.066 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law or specifically in this chapter
(including §
155.005(B) of this chapter), no land or building or structure shall be used or
occupied, except for a use specifically listed in this chapter as permitted in
the zoning district within which the land or building or structure is located.
   (B)   The regulations set by this chapter shall apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure or land, except as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be erected, used,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered and no building or
structure or part thereof shall hereafter be used or occupied unless it is in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the use and district in
which it is located.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (E)   Any territory which may hereafter be annexed to the borough shall be
classified as the zoning district of the borough most similar to the zoning of
such territory before annexation (as determined by the Zoning Hearing Board)
until otherwise classified.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 302)
§ 155.067 ZONING MAP; STREET CLASSIFICATION MAPS.
   (A)   Zoning map.
      (1)   A map entitled “Tatamy Borough Zoning Map” accompanies this chapter
and is declared a part of this chapter.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall bear the adoption date of this
chapter and the words “Official Zoning Map”.
      (3)   Changes of any nature to the Official Zoning Map shall only be made
in conformity with the amendment procedures set forth in this chapter. All
changes should be noted by date with a brief description of the nature of the
change.
      (4)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official
Zoning Map, which may from time to time be made or published, the Official
Zoning Map shall be located in the borough office and shall be the final
authority on boundaries and districts.
      (5)   (a)   If the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret because of changes and additions, the Board of
Supervisors may, by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall
supersede the prior Official Zoning Map.
         (b)   The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall
include an amendment thereof, unless the amendment has been duly advertised and
adopted.
         (c)   Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any part or parts thereof remaining shall
be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
   (b)   Street classification map.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 303; Ord. 268-2015, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 155.068 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to boundaries of any district as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   District boundary lines are intended to follow or be parallel to the
centerline of street rights-of-way, streams and railroads, and lot lines as
they existed on a recorded deed or plan of record in the County Recorder of
Deeds’ office at the time of the adoption of this chapter, unless such district
boundary lines are fixed by dimensions as shown on the zoning map.
   (B)   Where a district boundary is not fixed by dimensions and where it
approximately follows lot lines, such boundary shall be construed to follow
such lot lines unless specifically shown otherwise.
   (C)   In unsubdivided land or where a district boundary divides a lot, the
location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall be
determined by the use of the scale appearing on the maps.
   (D)   Interpretation of boundaries, see §
155.005(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 304)
§ 155.069 SETBACKS ACROSS MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The intent is to continue the objective of compatible land uses across
municipal boundaries.
   (B)   This chapter requires additional setbacks and the provision of buffer
yards when certain uses would abut an existing dwelling or a residential zoning
district.
   (C)   These same setback and buffer yard provisions shall be provided for
uses proposed within the borough if an abutting existing residence or abutting
principally residential zoning district is located in an abutting municipality.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 305)
§ 155.070 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only the following uses shall be permitted as follows
in each respective zoning district and within all other requirements of this
chapter:
Types of Uses (see definitions in §  Business Zoning Residential Zoning
155.008)                              Districts       Districts
                                      C LI            CR R-1 R-2 R-3
                                                                          Business  Residential
Types of Uses (see definitions in §                                      Zoning    Zoning
155.008)                                                                  Districts Districts
                                                                          C  LI     CR R- R- R-
                                                                                       1  2  3
ACCESSORY USES
Accessory apartment, one, within an existing single-family detached
dwelling or single-family semi-detached dwelling (twin dwelling) (see §  P  P      N  N  P  P
155.137)
Accessory to a permitted commercial use (other than what is customary for P  P      N  N  N  N
a permitted plant nursery)
Day care center accessory to a place of worship; provided, there is a     P  P      P  P  P  P
minimum lot area of 2 acres
Heliport (see §                                                          N  C      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Home occupation (see §                                                   SE SE     SE SE SE SE
155.137)
Home office (see §                                                       P  P      P  P  P  P
155.137)
Outdoor storage accessory to a permitted industrial use outdoor storage   N  P      N  N  N  N
or display
Retail sales and/or personal services limited to 5% of the floor area of  P  P      N  N  N  N
an industrial or office use
See list of additional accessory uses in the following divisions
AGRICULTURAL USES
Animal husbandry (see §                                                  N  P      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Commercial forestry (see §                                               P  P      N  P  P  P
155.136)
Crop farming                                                              P  P      P  P  P  P
Crop storage, commercial as principal use                                 P  P      N  N  N  N
Leaf composting                                                           P  P      P  P  P  P
Retail sales of agricultural products grown primarily on the premises     P  P      N  C  C  C
Sale or mixing of agricultural fertilizers, seeds or animal feed (not     P  P      N  N  N  N
involving manufacturing)
Septage or sludge application (see §                                     N  C      N  N  N  N
155.136)
COMMERCIAL USES
Adult bookstore, adult movie theater, cabaret or massage parlor (see §   N  C      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Airport (see §                                                           N  N      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Amusement park                                                            N  P      N  N  N  N
Auditorium, commercial (see §                                            P  P      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Auto repair garage (see §                                                C  N      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Auto service station - not primarily intended to service tractor-trailer
trucks (see §                                                            C  N      N  N  N  N
155.136)
Auto service station - primarily intended to service tractor-
trailer trucks (see §                                            N N N N N  N
155.136)
Auto, boat or mobile/manufactured home sales (see §              P N N N N  N
155.136)
Bakery                                                            P P N N N  N
Bed and breakfast use (see §                                     P P N N N  N
155.136)
Betting use                                                       N C N N N  N
Beverage distributor                                              P N N N N  N
Business services                                                 P P N N N  N
Bus terminal (see §                                              P P N N N  N
155.136)
Campground (see §                                                P N N N N  N
155.136)
Car wash (SW) (see §                                             P N N N N  N
155.136)
Commercial outdoor recreation (includes miniature golf course)    P N N N N  N
Commercial indoor recreation (includes bowling alley, roller or   P N N N N  N
ice skating, driving range and closely similar uses)
Conference center                                                 P P N N N  N
Construction company headquarters or storage                      P N N N N  N
Convenience store                                                 P N N N N  N
Communications tower, commercial (see §                          N P N N N  N
155.136)
Crafts or artisan’s studio                                      P N N N N  N
Exercise club                                                     P P N N N  N
Financial institution (see §                                     P P N N N  N
155.136)
Flea market                                                       P N N N N  N
Funeral home (1.5-acre minimum lot area required)                 P N N N N  H
Heliport (see §                                                  N C N N N  N
155.136)
Kennel (see §                                                    N P N N N  N
155.136)
Laundry/laundromat (other than for use only by tenants) (SW)      P N P P P  P
Lumber yard                                                       P P N N N  N
Medical office or clinic - limited to 1 physician or dentist on a P P N N SE N
lot abutting an arterial street
Other medical office or clinic                                    P P N N N  N
Motel or hotel (see §                                              P P N N N N
155.136)
Office                                                              P P N N N N
Personal services (includes tailoring, custom dressmaking,
haircutting/styling, dry-cleaning, shoe repair and closely similar  P N N N N N
uses)
Plant nursery not including retail sale of items not primarily
grown on the premises (see §                                       P P P P P P
155.136)
Plant nursery including retail sale of items not primarily grown on
the premises (see §                                                P P N N N N
155.136)
Race track, commercial (see §                                      N N N N N N
155.136)
Restaurant, fast-food (SW) (including a use primarily involving
delivery of ready-to-eat food) (see §                              P N N N N N
155.136)
Restaurant, standard (SW)                                           P N N N N N
Retail store (not including uses listed individually in this table) P N N N N N
Stable, non-household (see §                                       N P P N N N
155.136)
Target range, completely indoor and enclosed                        N P N N N N
Target range, not completely indoor and enclosed (see §            N C N N N N
155.136)
Taxi terminal                                                       P N N N N N
Tavern                                                              C N N N N N
Theater, indoor                                                     P N N N N N
Theater, outdoor movie (see §                                      N P N N N N
155.136)
Trade school                                                        P N N N N N
Veterinarian office                                                 P N N N N N
INDUSTRIAL USES
Assembly and packaging of materials produced elsewhere or that are  N P N N N N
permitted to be manufactured on-site
Asphalt plant                                                       N N N N N N
Beverage bottling (SW)                                              N P N N N N
Building supply sales                                               P P N N N N
Cement plant                                                        N N N N N N
Distribution (other than truck terminal)                            N P N N N N
Finishing of previously prepared resin, vinyl, polymer or rubber    N P N N N N
products
Industrial equipment sales and rental, other than vehicles          P P N N N N
primarily intended to be operated on public streets
Junk, outdoor storage, display or processing of, other than within an        N N N N N N
approved junkyard or solid waste disposal area
Junk yard (see §                                                            N C N N N N
155.136)
Liquid fuel storage, bulk                                                    N N N N N N
Manufacture and/or bulk processing of:
   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizers or pesticides                      N N N N N N
   Animal feed, bulk manufacture for off-site use                         N C N N N N
   Apparel, textiles, shoes and apparel accessories                       N P N N N N
   Cement, gypsum, concrete or plaster products                           N N N N N N
   Ceramics products                                                      N P N N N N
   Chemicals, bulk manufacture or bulk storage of hazardous or toxic
chemicals, including not limited to the following acids: hydrochloric,       N N N N N N
nitric, picric, sulfuric, sulphanous or carbolic
   Chemical products that are not hazardous or toxic, other than fertilizeNsN N N N N
or pesticides
   Coke or potash work, including coke oven                               N N N N N N
   Creosote, including treatment with                                     N N N N N N
   Electrical and electronic machines supplies and equipment              P P N N N N
   Explosives, fireworks, ammunition or gunpowder, including bulk storage N N N N N N
(except government-owned facility)
   Fabricated metal products (except ammunition or explosives)            N N N N N N
   Food products (not including uses listed individually in this table) (SN)P N N N N
   Furniture and wood products (not including raw paper pulp)             N P N N N N
   Glass and glass products                                               N P N N N N
   Incineration, reduction, distillation, storage or dumping of
slaughterhouse refuse, rancid fats, garbage, bones, dead animals or offal    N N N N N N
(other than within an approved solid waste facility)
   Jewelry and optical goods                                              P P N N N N
   Leather, clay and pottery products                                     P P N N N N
   Manufactured or modular housing                                        N P N N N N
   Metal products, primary                                                N N N N N N
   Microelectronic components                                             P P N N N N
   Oilcloth                                                               N N N N N N
   Paper and cardboard products (not including manufacture of paper pulpN P N N N N
   Paper, raw or paper pulp                                             N N N N N N
   Paving or roofing materials, including asphalt                       N N N N N N
   Petroleum or kerosene refining or distillation                       N N N N N N
   Pharmaceuticals                                                      N P N N N N
   Plastics, polymers, resins or vinyl                                  N N N N N N
   Products from previously produced materials, such as glass, leather, N P N N N N
cellophane, textiles, rubber or synthetic rubber
   Rubber, natural or synthetic                                         N N N N N N
   Scientific, electronic and other precision instruments               P P N N N N
   Stockyard, slaughterhouse or bulk meat-packing plant                 N N N N N N
   Soaps, detergents, paints, varnishes or enamels                      N N N N N N
   Tar, including tar distillation                                      N N N N N N
   Tire retreading                                                      N N N N N N
   Transportation equipment                                             N P N N N N
Mineral extraction (see §                                                 N C N N N N
155.136)
Packaging                                                                  P P N N N N
Package delivery services distribution center                              N P N N N N
Photo processing, bulk                                                     P P N N N N
Printing or bookbinding                                                    N P N N N N
Recycling collection center (see §                                        P P N C C C
155.136)
Recycling center, built                                                    P P N N N N
Research, engineering or testing facility or laboratory                    N P N N N N
Sanitary landfill (see §                                                  N N N N N N
155.136)
Sawmill/planing mill                                                       N P N N N N
Self-storage development (see §                                           P N N N N N
155.136)
Slaughterhouse or stockyard (see §                                        N N N N N N
155.136)
Solid waste to energy plant (see §                                        N N N N N N
155.136)
Solid waste transfer facility (see §                                      N C N N N N
155.136)
Truck terminal (see §                                                     N N N N N N
155.136)
Warehousing (other than truck terminal) (see §                       N P N N   N   N
155.136)
Wastewater treatment plant, central serving uses off the tract        N C N N   N   N
Welding                                                               N P N N   N   N
Wholesale sales                                                       P P N N   N   N
Other industrial uses not listed above (except as provided for in §  N N N N   N   N
155.005 of this chapter)
All uses that would have a serious threat of being unable to comply
with the performance standards of this chapter, especially including  N N N N   N   N
the environmental protection requirements
INSTITUTIONAL
Animal cemetery (see §                                               N P N N   N   N
155.136)
Cemetery without crematorium                                          P P P P   P   P
Crematorium                                                           N C N N   N   N
College or university - educational and support buildings             P P N N   N   N
College, university or primary or secondary school - dormitory        C C N N   N   N
Community center                                                      P P P N   N   N
Criminal treatment center                                             N C N N   N   N
Cultural center or museum                                             P p P N   N   N
Day care center, adult (see §                                        P p N N   N   P
155.136)
Day care center/child nursery (see §
155.136)                                                              P P N P** P** P
(see also as accessory use)
** provided that, the lot is adjacent to an arterial street
Golf course (see §                                                   P P P P   P   P
155.136)
Hospital (see §                                                      P P N N   N   N
155.136)
Membership club                                                       P P P N   N   N
Nursing home or personal care center (SW) (see §                     P P N N   N   N
155.136)
Place of worship (see §                                              P P P P   P   P
155.136)
Picnic grove, private (see §                                         P P P N   N   N
155.136)
School, public or private, primary or secondary (SW) (see §          P N P P   P   P
155.136)
RESIDENTIAL USES
Boarding house (SW) (see §                                           C N N N   N   N
155.136)
Conversion of an existing building into 2 or more dwelling units (SW)
(other than one accessory apartment within an existing single-family  P N N N   N   P
detached dwelling) (see §
155.136)
Garden apartment (SW) (see §                                       N N N N N P
155.136)
Group home within a permitted dwelling unit, not including a
criminal treatment center (see §                                   P N P P P P
155.136)
Manufactured/mobile home park (SW) (see §                          N N N N N P
155.136)
Single-family detached dwelling (including manufactured/mobile home
(see §                                                             N N P P P P
155.136)
Single-family semi-detached dwelling (twin) (SW)                    N N N N P P
Townhouse (SW) (see §                                              N N N N N P
155.136)
PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC
Borough-owned uses                                                  P P P P P P
Emergency services station                                          P P P P P P
Nature preserve                                                     P P P P P P
Publicly-owned recreation                                           P P P P P P
Public utility facility (facilities not exempted by §              P P N N N N
155.003 or as “essential services”
Swimming pool, non-household (see §                                P P P P P P
155.136)
U.S. postal service facility                                        P P P P P P
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted by right (decision by Zoning Officer)
C = Conditional use (decision by Borough Council with review by Planning
Commission)
SE = Special exception use (decision by Zoning Hearing Board with review by
Planning Commission)
N = Not permitted
(SW) = Public sewer and central water service both required (except as may be
permitted with capped sewers by other sections of this chapter)
 
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses in all districts. The following accessory
uses are permitted by right as accessory uses to a permitted by right, special
exception or conditional principal use in all districts, within the
requirements of §
155.137 of this chapter and all other requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Air conditioning equipment, other than central equipment for a
commercial or industrial use;
      (2)   Amateur radio antennas;
      (3)   Basketball backboard, which may be within a required setback area;
provided, it is a minimum of two feet from any lot line;
      (4)   Crop storage as an accessory use to crop farming;
      (5)   Day care center as an accessory use, within the limits on number of
children in §
155.137 of this chapter;
      (6)   Fence or wall*;
      (7)   Flag pole;
      (8)   Garage, household;
      (9)   Garage sale*;
      (10)   Home gardening;
      (11)   Indoor storage that is customarily accessory to a permitted use;
      (12)   Keeping of pets*;
      (13)   Loading, off-street, only to serve a use that is permitted in that
district;
      (14)   Parking, off-street, only to serve a use that is permitted in that
district;
      (15)   Recreational facilities limited to use by employees of a lot or a
development and their occasional guests;
      (16)   Recreational facilities limited to use by residents of a
development and their occasional invited guests;
      (17)   Recycling collection center as an accessory use;
      (18)   Recreational vehicle, storage of one or two*;
      (19)   Residential accessory structure (see definition in §
155.008 of this chapter)*;
      (20)   Satellite antennas*;
      (21)   Signs, as permitted by §§
155.210 through
155.222 of this chapter;
      (22)   Solar energy system;
      (23)   Stable, household*;
      (24)   Swimming pool, household;
      (25)   Tennis/raquetball court;
      (26)   Volleyball court;
      (27)   Windmill; and
      (28)   Such other accessory use or structure that the applicant proves to
the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer is clearly customary and incidental to a
permitted by right, special exception or conditional principal use.
      * See standard for each in §
155.137(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses to business and institutional uses. The
following are permitted by right accessory uses only to a permitted by right,
special exception or conditional commercial, industrial or institutional use;
provided that, all requirements of this chapter are met:
      (1)   Amusement machines, coin or token operated;
      (2)   Food, beverage and toy machines, coin operated;
      (3)   Newspaper sales machines, coin operated;
      (4)   Telephones, coin operated; and
      (5)   The following accessory uses; provided that, the use is clearly
limited to employees, patients, residents and families of employees of the use:
         (a)   Standard or fast-food restaurant without drive-thru service;
         (b)   Day care center; or
         (c)   Non-commercial recreational facilities.
   (D)   Essential services. The following are “essential services” that are
permitted by right as a principal or as an accessory use in all districts:
      (1)   The following essential services are not required to meet the
accessory or principal setback, lot area or other lot requirements of this
chapter; except that, any newly created lot shall meet the applicable lot
requirements if future building or subdivision of the lot would reasonably be
possible for a different use:
         (a)   Oil pipelines and natural gas transmission and distribution
lines and accessory compressing stations;
         (b)   Electrical transformers as an accessory use to dwellings;
         (c)   Electrical, telephone and street light poles;
         (d)   Electrical transmission and distribution lines and meters;
         (e)   Wells, standpipes, water transmission lines, cisterns and
meters;
         (f)   Sewage pumping stations, but not including a central sewage
treatment plant; provided that, such use be setback a minimum of 75 feet from
any dwelling or any residential lot line;
         (g)   Cable television and telephone lines;
         (h)   Storm water pipes, outfalls, detention basins, swales and
catchbasins;
         (i)   Shelters and benches for buses that transport school children or
that are owned, operated or financed by a public transit authority, and that do
not include off-premises signs;
         (j)   U.S. mailboxes;
         (k)   Boxes for receiving individual newspapers;
         (l)   Railroad lines;
         (m)   Fire hydrants and emergency callboxes;
         (n)   Engineered retaining walls that are clearly necessary to hold
back slopes;
         (o)   Sidewalks and curbs;
         (p)   Residential driveways;
         (q)   Ramps primarily intended for handicapped access;
         (r)   Ground level porches that are not covered by a permanent roof;
         (s)   Steps leading into the entrance of a building;
         (t)   On-lot septic disposal systems; and
         (u)   Construction. Temporary storage of vehicles and materials and/or
construction office trailers that are clearly needed and being actively used
for current construction on the same or an adjacent lot or within the same
subdivision; provided, such items are removed from the site within 30 days of
completion of the portion of the construction that they relate to.
      (2)   The following are permitted essential services and are required
(except within §
155.006 of this chapter) to meet all of the applicable requirements of this
chapter:
         (a)   Electrical substations and bulk industrial or commercial
transformers that are not an accessory use to dwellings. Electric substations
involving outdoor structures at least ten feet in height shall be required to
provide evergreen screening within the requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter on sides that are within 150 feet of a dwelling,
undeveloped residentially zoned land or an expressway or an arterial street;
         (b)   Water towers (see height exemption in §
155.151 of this chapter), water filtration plants and pressure stations;
         (c)   Emergency and other electrical generators and compressors;
         (d)   Solid waste bulk dumpsters and bulk compactors;
         (e)   Telephone switching stations;
         (f)   Industrial or commercial central air conditioning equipment; and
         (g)   Central sewage treatment facility meeting all State DER and
borough regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 306)
§ 155.071 TABLE OF LOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The following lot and setback requirements shall apply for each
respective district, unless a more restrictive requirement is listed for a
particular use in §§
155.170 through
155. 181 of this chapter or elsewhere in this chapter.
Lot and Setback Requirements     Residential Zoning Districts
(see definitions of terms in §  CR R-1
155.008)
Lot and Setback Requirements                                                Residential
(see definitions of terms in §                                             Zoning
155.008)                                                                    Districts
                                                                            CR      R-1
Minimum habitable floor area per dwelling (sq. ft.)                                 1,110
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.)
(per dwelling unit for residential uses)
   Single-family detached dwelling with public sewer and central water   130,000 12,000
service
   Single-family detached dwelling without both public sewer and central 130,000 38,000
water service
   Single-family detached dwelling with central water service and capped
sewers acceptable to the Borough Sewer Authority and with certification by  130,000 12,000
such authority that the dwelling can reasonably be expected to be connected
to a public sewage system within 3 years of final subdivision approval
   Other permitted uses                                                  130,000 38,000
                                                                                   80,
                                                                                   except
                                                                                   150 for
                                                                                   lots
                                                                                   required
                                                                                   to have
Minimum lot width at the minimum front yard building setback line (ft.)        200 a
                                                                                   minimum
                                                                                   lot area
                                                                                   of
                                                                                   38,000
                                                                                   sq. ft.
                                                                                   or more
Minimum lot width at the street right-of-way line (after development) (ft.)
   For a lot granted final approval after the adoption of this chapter that 120 120
will have direct traffic access onto an arterial street
   For any other lot                                                        25  25
Minimum width and length of a dwelling (ft.)                                   16  16
Minimum building setback for principal structure (ft.)
   Front yard                                                               30  30
   Side yard - each side                                                    8   8
   Side yard - two combined                                                 20  20
   Rear yard                                                                35  35
   For yards adjacent to a public street (other than an alley)              30  30
   For residential buildings abutting an industrially zoned area            60  60
Minimum building setback for accessory structures (ft.)
                                                                               Not
                                                                               permitted in
                                                                               required
   Front yard                                                               front yard,
                                                                               unless
                                                                               specifically
                                                                               permitted by
                                                                               this chapter
   Side yard - adjacent to a public street (other than an alley)            30  30
   Other side yard                                                          5   5
   Rear yard                                                                5   5
Maximum height (ft.)                                                           35  35
Maximum number of stories                                                      2.5 2.5
Maximum building coverage                                                      10% 25%
Maximum impervious coverage                                                    20% 50%
Minimum habitable floor area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.)                         950
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.) for use other than places of worship, townhouses, garden apartments
and manufactured home parks (per dwelling unit for residential uses)
   Permitted dwelling with public sewer and central water service
      Single-family detached dwelling                                      7,800  7,800
      Single-family semi-detached dwelling (half of a twin)                7,000  6,000
   Single-family detached dwelling without both public sewer and central water38,000 38,000
service
   Permitted dwelling with central water service and capped sewers acceptable to the Borough
Sewer Authority and with certification by such Authority that the dwelling can reasonably be
expected to be connected to a public sewage system within 3 years of final subdivision
approval
      Single-family detached dwelling                                      12,000 12,000
      Single-family semi-detached dwelling (half of a twin)                12,000 12,000
      Other permitted uses                                                 38,000 38,000
Minimum lot width at the minimum front yard building setback line (ft.) for uses other than
townhouses, garden apartments and manufactured home parks (per dwelling unit for residential
uses)
   Single-family detached dwelling with public sewer or approved capped sewer 65     65
and public water
   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (half of a twin)                      45     45
   Other permitted principal uses                                             150    150
* For townhouses, garden apartments and mobile/manufactured home parks, see also the specific
standards in §
155.136 of this chapter.
Minimum lot width at the street right-of-way line (after development) for uses other than
townhouses and individual spaces within a manufactured home park (ft.)
   For a lot granted final approval after the adoption of this chapter that wi120    120
have direct traffic access onto an arterial street
   For any other lot                                                          25     25
Minimum building setback for principal structures for uses other than a manufactured home park
(ft.)
   Front yard                                                                 30     30
   Side yard - each side **                                                   8      8
   Side yard - two combined **                                                18     18
   Rear yard                                                25  25
   For yards adjacent to a public street (other than an alle30  30
   For residential buildings abutting an industrially zoned 60  60
area
Minimum building setback for accessory structures (ft.) for uses other than a
manufactured home park
                                                               Not permitted in
                                                               required front
   Front yard                                               yard, unless
                                                               specifically
                                                               permitted by
                                                               this chapter
   Side yard
      Adjacent to a public street (other than an alley)  30  30
      Other side yard**                                  5   5
   Rear yard                                                5   5
Minimum width and length of a dwelling (ft.)                   19  -
Maximum height (ft.)                                           35  35
Maximum number of stories                                      2.5 2.5
Maximum building coverage                                      35% 40%
Maximum impervious coverage                                    50% 65%
Notes to Table:
* For townhouses, garden apartments and mobile/manufactured home parks, see
also the specific standards in §
155.136 of this chapter.
** Except 0 ft. along lot lines where dwellings are attached.
 
Lot and Setback Requirements                                                   Business Zoning
(see definitions of terms in § 155.008)                                       Districts
                                                                               C      LI
                                                                                      87,000,
                                                                                      except for
                                                                                      43,560 for
                                                                                      a lot
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.)                                                     43,560 permanently
                                                                                      deed
                                                                                      restricted
                                                                                      to non-
                                                                                      industrial
                                                                                      uses
Minimum lot width at the minimum front yard building setback line (ft.)        150    200
Minimum lot width at the street right-of-way line (after development) (ft.)
   For a lot granted final approval after the adoption of this chapter that 250    250
will have direct traffic access onto an arterial street
   For any other lot                                                                25        25
Minimum building setback for both principal and accessory structures (ft.)
                                                                                       60 feet,
                                                                                       except 35
                                                                                       feet if
                                                                                       there
                                                                                       will be
                                                                                       not
                                                                                       vehicular
   Front yard                                                                       parking   35
                                                                                       in the
                                                                                       area
                                                                                       between
                                                                                       the
                                                                                       building
                                                                                       and the
                                                                                       front lot
                                                                                       line
   Side yard each side                                                              10        10
   Rear yard                                                                        20        20
   For yards adjacent to a public street (other than an alley)                      50        50
      From an abutting residential district boundary or from an existing principally residential
building
         For a non-industrial use (including office portions of an industrial 60        60
building)
         For an industrial use or an area routinely used for the movement, par175**     175**
storage or loading/unloading of tractor-trailer trucks or refrigerated trucks
Maximum height (feet)                                                                  40        40
Maximum number of stories                                                              2.5       2.5
Maximum building coverage                                                              40%       40%
Maximum impervious coverage
   With public sewage service                                                       75%       75%
   Without public sewage service                                                    60%       60%
Notes to Table:
** This setback may be reduced to 120 feet if an earthen berm meeting the following standards is
provided by the business use abutting the residential use or district.
-The berm shall have a minimum average height of 5 feet above the average finished ground level
(disregarding drainage channels) on the outside of the berm. The berm may vary in height as long as
the minimum average height is met.
-Any evergreen screening required by §
155.152 of this chapter shall be provided on the top or on the residential side of the berm.
-Any chain link fencing shall be provided on the inside of the berm.
-The berm shall have a maximum side slope of 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
-The berm shall be maintained with an all-season natural ground cover.
 
   (B)   See additional requirements in the following sections:
      (1)   Regulations of each zoning district;
      (2)   Regulations for specific types of uses in §§
155.135 through
155.137 of this chapter;
      (3)   Off-street parking requirements in §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter (including paved area setbacks in §
155.197 of this chapter);
      (4)   Sign requirements in §§
155.210 through
155.222 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Buffer yard requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 307; Ord. 157-1993, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 155.072 PURPOSE OF EACH ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   LDR District: to provide for the orderly expansion of areas that offer
neighborhoods of single- family detached houses at a low density. To carefully
protect these areas from uses that may not be fully compatible.
   (B)   MLDR District: to provide for the orderly expansion of areas that
offer residential neighborhoods at a medium low density. To carefully control
the types of housing to ensure compatibility with existing houses. To carefully
protect these areas from uses that may not be fully compatible. To strongly
encourage these lands to be developed only after such time as both public sewer
and public water service is available.
   (C)   MDR District: to provide for a variety of carefully-designed housing
types at medium densities. To make sure that varied housing types are
compatible with any existing single-family detached houses. To make sure that
the street system of the borough and other community facilities and services
are fully able to handle moderately dense growth in an area. To work to
encourage affordable housing, especially for young families and senior
citizens. To encourage these areas to be developed for townhouses and
apartments only after both public water and public sewer service is available.
   (D)   C District: to provide for a wide range of needed commercial uses in
locations that are less likely to Involve conflicts with existing residences.
To use special care and control on access onto arterial and collector streets
to avoid traffic hazards.
   (E)   LI District: to provide sufficient space, in appropriate locations, to
meet current and anticipated future regional needs for large-site industrial
related and limited types of commercial development appropriate to the
community. To help generate agglomeration economies that will aid in attracting
new industries. To control the types of uses to protect the public health and
safety. To maintain an attractive physical environment that will aid in
attracting new industry. To encourage development within
industrial parks, with deed restriction controls and interior access systems.
To encourage development that follows an overall plan with common design and
landscaping themes. To encourage buildings that relate in scale and materials
to adjacent buildings. To avoid the eventual placement of a large number of
driveways that would enter onto arterial streets, and to provide for unified
and coordinated development.
   (F)   CR District: to limit the intensity of development on areas that are
very environmentally sensitive. To seek to preserve the water quality of
important creeks. To recognize areas that include significant amounts of
wetlands, high water table soils and flood-prone areas. To direct development
towards areas of the borough that are more environmentally suitable.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 308)
OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.085 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Tatamy Borough Overlay
District Regulations”. The boundaries of the overlay district are shown in the
exhibit attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.086 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BIOLOGICAL HAZARDS. Also known as BIOHAZARDS. These wastes contain
pathogens of sufficient virulence and quantity that exposure to these wastes by
a susceptible human host could result in infection. Examples of these wastes
include wastes generated from patients with communicable diseases, cultures and
stocks of etiologic agents, surgery and autopsy wastes, sharps and contaminated
laboratory wastes.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The location of any goods, wares, merchandise,
commodities, junk, debris or any other item outside of a completely enclosed
building for a continuous period longer than 24 hours.
      RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT OR TESTING LABORATORY. An establishment engaged in
conducting research and experimental development or analytical testing services
in the physical, engineering and life sciences, such as agriculture,
electronics, environmental, biology, biotechnology,
botany, computers, chemistry, food, fisheries, forests, geology, health,
mathematics, medicine, oceanography, pharmacy, physics, veterinary and other
related subjects. Testing services may occur in a laboratory or on-site.
      ROUTE 33/MAIN STREET INTERCHANGE PROJECT. A project to construct a new
full-diamond highway interchange at the existing crossing of PA Route 33 and
Main Street in the northern end of Palmer Township. The project includes the
replacement of the existing Main Street bridge structure over Route 33, the
installation of new on and off-ramps between Route 33 and Main Street, traffic
signals at the intersection of the new ramps with Main Street, widening of Main
Street and associated improvements that include signage, storm water management
systems, storm conveyance systems, utility pole relocations and highway
lighting. This new interchange will provide access to areas east and west of
Route 33, including areas immediately adjacent to the interchange.
   (B)   Definitions, general interpretation and terms defined, Chapter 154 of
this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.087 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide sufficient space to meet current and anticipated future
regional needs for light industrial, office and commercial development that
will benefit the borough and the region, both economically and aesthetically;
   (B)   To recognize that the north west corner of the borough will not be a
reasonable location for light industrial, office and commercial development
unless the Route 33/Main Street Interchange Project is constructed;
   (C)   To provide a mechanism that will allow areas planned for light
industrial, office and commercial uses to be developed in conjunction with the
construction of the Route 33/Main Street Interchange Project; and
   (D)   To allow for prudent business decision making by future property
owners and encourage investments in land and infrastructure to be made with the
knowledge that the borough will permit such light industrial, office and
commercial development to be occupied and operate only in the event that the
Route 33/Main Street Interchange Project is constructed.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.088 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   To promote light industrial, office and commercial development in
appropriate locations to provide wider employment choices and improve overall
economic development for the borough;
   (B)   To ensure that sufficient road capacity and utilities are in place
before new development occurs;
   (C)   To provide a safe and efficient transportation network that is closely
coordinated with land use; and
   (D)   To proactively manage the streetscape and character of the area
through the application of coordinated amenities including sidewalks,
landscaping and signage.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.089 APPLICABILITY.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Tatamy Borough Overlay
District; provided that, all other requirements of borough ordinances are met.
   (A)   Applicability of base zoning district provisions.
      (1)   The provisions of the base zoning district(s) shall continue to be
applicable to the property within the Tatamy Borough Overlay District only
until such time that the plans for construction of the Route 33/Main Street
Interchange Project have been approved by the state’s Department of
Transportation (PennDOT), any financial security required by PennDOT for the
completion of said improvements has been posted by the entity responsible for
completing the construction of said improvements, and primary construction
contracts relative to the completion of said project have been executed.
      (2)   After the Zoning Officer has evidence that the Route 33/Main Street
Interchange Project is open to public traffic, then the name of this district
shall be changed to the “Tatamy Borough Business District”, subject to the
requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   Procedure for application process in the Tatamy Borough Business
District.
      (1)   Applications for zoning permits for uses provided for in the Tatamy
Borough Business District shall be accepted for review by the Zoning Officer
only in the event that the applicant provides the Zoning Officer with
documentation from PennDOT verifying that plans for the construction of the
Route 33/Main Street Interchange Project have been approved by PennDOT, any
financial security required by PennDOT for the completion of said improvements
has been posted by the entity responsible for completing the construction of
said improvements, and primary construction contracts relative to the
completion of said project have been executed.
         (a)   Applications for zoning permits related to the construction of
structures permitted in the Tatamy Borough Business District shall include the
following information:
            1.   Size of building, in square feet; and
            2.   Architectural renderings of the building showing compliance
with the design provisions of §
155.093 of this chapter.
         (b)   Applications for zoning permits for uses provided for in the
Tatamy Borough Business District shall include the following additional
information:
            1.   Description of business and/or services provided;
            2.   Hours and days of operation;
            3.   Maximum number of employees expected on any one shift;
            4.   Expected number of outside customers or visitors; and
            5.   Number of trucks and expected hours of truck traffic.
      (2)   Applications for building permits related to the construction of
structures permitted within the Tatamy Borough Business District shall be
approved only in the event that all relevant provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances have been met.
      (3)   Applications for certificates of occupancy for structures within
the Tatamy Borough Business District shall be granted only in the event that
the interchange improvements have been approved by PennDOT, any financial
security required by PennDOT for the completion of said improvements has been
posted by the entity responsible for completing the construction of said
improvements in accordance with the development agreement with PennDOT and any
policies and procedures set forth by PennDOT and all other applicable
provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances have been met.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.090 PERMITTED USES BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Within the boundaries of the Tatamy Borough Overlay District. All
developments shall be constructed in accordance with a well-coordinated,
integrated overall plan. If a development is to be carried out in progressive
phases, each phase shall be planned so that the requirements and intents of
this subchapter and this chapter shall be fully complied with at the completion
of any phase.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Uses permitted by right shall be as follows:
      (1)   Business, professional or government office, subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Such use shall be carried on wholly indoors and within the
principal building; and
         (b)   No structure designed for office use shall include any dwelling
unit or units.
      (2)   Medical office, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Such use shall be carried on wholly indoors and within the
principal building; and
         (b)   This use does not include treatment centers or mental care
facilities.
      (3)   Business services, as follows:
         (a)   Photocopying service;
         (b)   Package delivery service; and
         (c)   Sales, service, repair and/or maintenance of computers, business
machine and office equipment.
      (4)   Printing and publishing establishment;
      (5)   Information/data processing;
      (6)   Industrial activity involving processing, cleaning, assembling,
packaging, conversion, production, repair, manufacturing or testing of
materials, goods and/or products; provided that:
         (a)   All activity shall occur within completely enclosed structures;
         (b)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted; and
         (c)   No use shall be permitted that:
            1.   Creates dangerous, injurious or noxious conditions or fire,
explosive or toxic hazards; and
            2.   Does not comply with federal or state regulations regarding
storage or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes, as defined by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
      (7)   Research, development or testing laboratory; provided that:
         (a)   No use shall be permitted that:
            1.   Creates dangerous, injurious or noxious conditions or fire,
explosive or toxic hazards, biohazard or potential biohazard; and
            2.   Does not comply with federal or state regulations regarding
storage or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes, as defined by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and State Department of Environmental
Protection.
         (b)   All storage of explosive or hazardous substances or gases shall
comply fully with the standards of the National Fire Protection Association.
         (c)   The Borough Council shall require the applicant to provide
evidence of compliance with all current regulatory requirements.
      (8)   Distribution center, either as a stand-alone use or in combination
with other uses; provided that:
         (a)   The distribution and warehousing component of any building does
not exceed 100,000 square feet;
         (b)   Docking bays shall not be constructed or maintained on opposite
sides of the building;
         (c)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted;
         (d)   In addition to any loading areas for trucks, there shall be at
least one tractor-trailer parking space provided for every ten loading dock
positions. Each such space shall be 12 feet by 60 feet and shall be clearly
delineated with appropriate pavement markings; and
         (e)   All facilities with gated entrances shall provide for an on-site
queuing area for the stacking of a minimum of two tractor-trailers for every
four loading areas.
      (9)   Warehouse; provided that:
         (a)   Truck parking and loading shall meet the minimum standards of
this chapter and in unique situations shall be provided according to maximum
standards of the industry for the specific type of warehouse;
         (b)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted;
         (c)   No storage of trash, garbage, refuse, explosive or flammable
materials, hazardous, biohazardous or potential biohazardous substances,
animals, animal carcasses or skins or similar items shall be permitted; and
         (d)   Warehouse uses that would involve more than 20 tractor-trailer
trips in any 24-hour period shall be required to meet the additional standards
for a distribution center as listed under division (B)(8) above. A trip shall
be defined as one arrival at or one departure from the facility.
      (10)   Wholesale sales; provided that, no retail sales or sales to the
general public are permitted;
      (11)   Trade school;
      (12)   Child day care center, subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   The use shall comply with applicable State Department of Public
Welfare regulations.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be designed for safe and convenient drop-
off and pick-up of children.
         (c)   An outdoor recreation area shall be enclosed with a 48-inch high
fence and shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any rear lot line. The recreation
area shall be screened so as to protect adjoining properties and shall provide
adequate shade for the children.
         (d)   A child day care center shall be permitted as an accessory use
for any principal use permitted in this chapter; provided that, the use is
limited to employees and their children only.
      (13)   Appropriate government services and facilities.
   (C)   Multiple occupancy.
      (1)   A principal building may be occupied by more than one use; provided
that, all uses are permitted within this chapter; and, provided that, all other
requirements of this chapter are complied with.
      (2)   The applicant for each use within a multiple occupancy building
shall be required to apply for a separate building and zoning permit through
the required processes.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.091 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   All uses that are prohibited in §§
155.065 through
155.072 as listed in the C and LI Districts.
   (B)   All uses are prohibited that would have a serious threat of future
inability to meet the environmental preservation standards of this chapter, as
stated in the zoning ordinances including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Asphalt manufacturing or refining;
      (2)   Coke oven;
      (3)   Creosote treatment or manufacturing;
      (4)   Distillation of bones, coal or refuse (except in the manufacture of
gas);
      (5)   Explosives, fireworks, ammunition and gunpowder manufacture or
storage (except within a U.S. military facility);
      (6)   Fat rendering;
      (7)   Incineration, reduction, storage or dumping of slaughterhouse
refuse, rancid fats, garbage, dead animals or animal waste;
      (8)   Bulk manufacturing of acids or chemicals;
      (9)   Oilcloth or linoleum manufacturing;
      (10)   Paper mill;
      (11)   Petroleum or kerosene refining or distillation or bulk storage;
      (12)   Potash work;
      (13)   Stockyard or slaughterhouse; and
      (14)   Tar distillation or manufacturing.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.092 AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: three acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot width: 180 feet.
   (C)   Lot coverage:
      (1)   Maximum total building coverage: 40%; and
      (2)   Maximum total impervious coverage: 70%.
   (D)   Building setback from exterior lot lines:
      (1)   A minimum of 15 feet from the future right-of-way of any public
street;
      (2)   A minimum of 25 feet from all abutting lot lines of a lot not
within the Tatamy Borough Overlay District; and
      (3)   A minimum of 20 feet from all abutting lot lines of a lot that is
within the Tatamy Borough Overlay District.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 40 feet from finished ground level.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.093 BUILDING STANDARDS AND ORIENTATION.
   (A)   The main entrance of all buildings shall be located along the front or
side of the building that faces a street. The main entrance of a building shall
be identified by being recessed in from the surrounding wall or projecting out
from the surrounding wall, and/or by windows, changes in building height, roof
overhangs, awnings, lighting or combinations thereof.
   (B)   All exterior building walls that faces any street shall be finished
with brick, cut stone, smooth precast concrete, poured concrete panels, split-
face masonry blocks, stucco, plaster, clear or lightly tinted glass, or
combinations thereof. Standard concrete block shall not be permitted on walls
that face a street.
   (C)   Exterior building walls shall use neutral colors. Contrasting trim,
color bands and/or textures may be used to help break up the vertical monotony
of flat walls.
   (D)   For any property with loading docks, service bays and roll-up doors
shall be screened against view from Main Street and 8th Street.
   (E)   Loading bays and roll-up doors shall use the same color as the wall on
which they are located.
   (F)   Building mechanical systems, including, but not limited to, air-
conditioning units, exhaust systems, satellite dishes and elevator housing,
shall be located on the roof whenever possible. Any mechanical systems not
located on the roof of the building shall be enclosed with fencing and/or
covering that is the same color as the building. All equipment shall be
screened from residential view, including those on the ground and roofs.
   (G)   Public utility equipment shall be placed underground whenever
feasible.
   (H)   Trash receptacles and above-ground utility equipment shall be placed
to the side or rear of the nearest building.
      (1)   All trash receptacles shall be enclosed by landscaping, fencing,
walls or other enclosures.
      (2)   All fencing, walls and/or enclosures used for trash receptacles
shall be the same color as the building with which they are associated.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.094 SIGNS.
   (A)   Permitted signs. The following types of signs are permitted within the
Tatamy Borough Business District:
      (1)   Freestanding ground-supported (monument) signs, not to exceed one
sign per street frontage. The total sign area of each freestanding sign shall
not exceed 50 square feet. A freestanding digital sign or electronically
changing message sign is prohibited;
      (2)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Up to two wall signs shall be permitted for each principal
building. Each sign shall have a maximum total sign area of 50 square feet.
         (b)   Each principal use within a multiple occupancy building may also
have a wall sign with a maximum sign area of four square feet, which shall be
located near or on the main entrance to the use.
      (3)   Signs identifying major developments per the zoning ordinances;
      (4)   Signs not requiring permits per the zoning ordinances; and
      (5)   Temporary signs per the zoning ordinances.
   (B)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Freestanding pole signs are prohibited.
      (2)   Signs on mobile or movable stands are prohibited.
   (C)   Height.
      (1)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to a maximum height of ten
feet.
      (2)   The maximum height of wall signs shall be equal to the total height
of the wall on which they are located.
   (D)   Illumination.
      (1)   (a)   Externally illuminated signs shall be illuminated by a white
light that does not move or change intensity.
         (b)   External light shall be directed at the sign without light
spillover and without causing glare for motorists, pedestrians or neighboring
properties.
      (2)   (a)   Externally illuminated signs may be backlit with a diffused
or shielded light source to control glare.
         (b)   Backlighting shall illuminate the letters, characters or
graphics on the sign, but not its background.
      (3)   Internally illuminated signs shall have a dark background with
illuminated text that accounts for a maximum of 20% of the total sign area.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.095 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Parking. In addition to the off-street parking requirements in the
zoning ordinances and SALDO, the following requirements shall apply to uses
within the Tatamy Borough Business District.
      (1)   The design of parking and circulation areas on the site shall
address the needs of different users to the site, such as visitors, employees
and truck loading and unloading.
         (a)   Parking areas for visitors or customers shall be located
adjacent to the main entrance of the building.
         (b)   All parking areas on a lot shall be accessible from within the
lot.
         (c)   Clear access shall be provided to all sides of the building for
emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Where parking areas are located between the building and the
street, the parking areas shall be screened from view of the street using low
fencing, a low wall that matches the architectural style of the principal
building, earthen berms and variations in elevation, landscaping or
combinations thereof.
      (3)   (a)   Pedestrian walkways shall be provided for visitors, customers
and employees to travel between buildings and parking areas.
         (b)   Pedestrian walkways shall be constructed with a different
pavement material than that used for streets and parking areas so as to
differentiate the walkway from the driving areas. Pedestrian walkways may be
constructed with concrete, decorative brick, pavers or stone, not including
crushed stone.
   (B)   Loading. In addition to the loading requirements in this chapter and
SALDO, the following requirements shall apply to uses within the Tatamy Borough
Business District: loading and unloading areas, including areas for truck
parking and/or service, shall be located at the rear of a building, whenever
possible. If loading, unloading, truck parking and/or service bays are not
possible at the rear of a building, then they may be located at the side of a
building; provided that, they are not visible from the street. If loading,
unloading, truck parking and/or service areas are located at the side of a
building; they shall be shielded from view of the street using fencing, a wall
that matches the architectural style of the principal building or dense
landscaping or berms.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.096 STREETSCAPE PERFORMANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided for all uses within the Tatamy
Borough Business District. Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
borough specifications and installed to connect to the property line of
adjacent parcels.
   (B)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall be provided along all street
frontages in the Tatamy Borough Business District.
      (1)   Streetlight poles shall have a maximum height of 20 feet and shall
be placed a maximum of 100 feet apart.
      (2)   All streetlight poles and fixtures shall be supplied in accordance
with design standards set forth by the electric utility company.
      (3)   The design of streetlight poles and fixtures shall be consistent
throughout the Tatamy Borough Business District.
      (4)   Cobra-head style streetlights shall be prohibited.
      (5)   All street lighting shall be directed downward.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 155.097 TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Road capacity. To ensure that the road network is able to handle
additional traffic from intensive types of development, the following
conditions shall be met.
      (1)   A traffic impact report shall be submitted as required by Chapter
154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The Borough Engineer shall review, at the expense of the applicant,
any professional traffic studies that are presented and make recommendations to
the borough.
      (3)   The provisions of Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, entitled
“required traffic improvements”, shall also apply to any use that involves
construction of one or more new principal buildings.
   (B)   Access management.
      (1)   The Route 33/Main Street Interchange project will make Main Street
a critical corridor for traffic movement. The number of access points onto Main
Street needs to be minimized, and traffic shall be steered towards a minimum
number of strategically planned intersections and traffic signals.
      (2)   In order to minimize traffic congestion and hazards, the following
access management provisions shall apply.
         (a)   Access to lots shall be provided only onto and off of an
abutting collector or local street, and shall not be provided directly onto or
off of Main Street and 8th Street.
         (b)   Access to two or more adjoining lots may be combined, shared
and/or coordinated to minimize the number of access points onto a public
street. Shared parking lots and access drives or access points connecting
adjacent lots are strongly encouraged. The provision of joint access shall be
subject to the creation of an easement with the deed allowing cross access
between the properties within the access road area. The joint access
arrangements shall include a recorded joint agreement with the deed defining
the maintenance responsibilities of each of the property owners served by the
access road.
         (c)   Developments consisting of three or more principal structures
shall make use of a carefully coordinated interior street system.
            1.   Each principal building shall have its main vehicle access
onto a common parking lot, access drive, service road, marginal access street
or other alternative method approved by the borough, which shall then provide
access to an abutting collector or local street.
            2.   Vehicle access shall be provided to each use without causing
congestion to, hazards upon or interference with traffic movement on public
streets.
         (d)   The minimum distance between an access point or driveway and a
street intersection on the same or opposite side of a street shall be as
follows, measured from centerline to centerline:
            1.   From Main Street: 300 feet;
            2.   From a collector street: 200 feet; and
            3.   From a local street: 100 feet.
         (e)   An access point or driveway shall be separated a minimum
distance of 100 feet from any other access point or driveway onto the same
street, measured from centerline to centerline.
         (f)   The access control provisions of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances shall also apply.
(Ord. 260-2013, passed 7-1-2013)
MAIN STREET COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.110 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Main Street Commercial
District Regulations”. The boundaries of the district are shown in Exhibit A
attached to the ordinance codified herein and on the Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.111 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ROUTE 33/MAIN STREET INTERCHANGE PROJECT. A project to construct a new
full-diamond highway interchange at the existing crossing of PA Route 33 and
Main Street in the northern end of Palmer Township. The project includes the
replacement of the existing Main Street bridge structure over Route 33, the
installation of new on and off-ramps between Route 33 and Main Street, traffic
signals at the intersection of the new ramps with Main Street, widening of Main
Street and associated improvements that include signage, storm water management
systems, storm conveyance systems, utility pole relocations and highway
lighting. This new interchange will provide access to areas east and west of
Route 33, including areas immediately adjacent to the interchange.
   (B)   Definitions, general interpretation and terms defined,
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances and §
155.008 of this chapter.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 305-2024, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 155.112 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow for the creation of a planned
commercial center featuring the qualities of a traditional Main Street
neighborhood that will benefit the borough and the region, both economically
and aesthetically.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.113 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   To expand the variety and competitiveness of goods and services that
can be conveniently accessed by Borough residents and the public;
   (B)   To ensure safe and efficient pedestrian and vehicular connections
along the Main Street corridor by managing land uses and traffic conflicts, and
minimizing the number of curb cuts;
   (C)   To minimize the adverse visual impact of expansive parking lots by
establishing effective building and parking lot orientations and through the
use of shade trees, screening, and grade changes; and
   (D)   To proactively manage the streetscape and character of the area
through the application of coordinated amenities including sidewalks,
landscaping, street lighting and signage.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.114 APPLICABILITY.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Main Street Commercial
District; provided that, all other requirements of borough ordinances are met.
   (A)   Applications for zoning permits related to the construction of
structures permitted in the Main Street Commercial District shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Size of building, in square feet; and
      (2)   Architectural renderings of the building showing compliance with
the design provisions of §
155.117 of this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for zoning permits for uses provided for in the Main
Street Commercial District shall include the following additional information:
      (1)   Description of business and/or services provided;
      (2)   Hours and days of operation;
      (3)   Maximum number of employees expected on any one shift;
      (4)   Expected number of outside customers or visitors; and
      (5)   Number of trucks and expected hours of truck traffic.
   (C)   Applications for building permits related to the construction of
structures permitted within the Main Street Commercial District shall be
approved only in the event that all relevant provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances have been met.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.115 PERMITTED USES BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Within the boundaries of the Main Street Commercial District, all
tracts shall be developed as part of a planned commercial development, subject
to the following provisions.
      (1)   All developments shall be constructed in accordance with a well-
coordinated, integrated overall plan. If a development is to be carried out in
progressive phases, each phase shall be planned so that the requirements and
intents of this subchapter and this chapter shall be fully complied with at the
completion of any phase.
      (2)   The site shall utilize a carefully designed interior and exterior
system of vehicular access to minimize the number of driveways entering onto
public streets. The applicant shall prove that all proposed driveways or access
points are placed in the most logical and reasonable locations, considering
impacts upon abutting streets.
      (3)   Where a drive-through window is proposed for any use within the
development, a stacking lane shall be provided to serve a minimum of ten cars.
The stacking lane shall connect only to internal access drives and parking
lots, shall not have direct access drives and parking lots and shall not have
direct access from Main Street. The stacking lane shall not be used as a
parking lot circulation aisle nor shall it in any way conflict with the
circulation of traffic through the parking lot.
      (4)   The applicant will not place, display or maintain any merchandise,
equipment, goods, racks, products or other articles on the sidewalks adjacent
to the commercial, or exterior of the premises. All activity shall occur within
the completely enclosed structures unless special permission is granted by the
borough on a limited basis.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right shall be as follows:
      (1)   Shopping center;
      (2)   Retail store, as follows:
         (a)   Arts and crafts store;
         (b)   Beer, wine or liquor store;
         (c)   Book store, not to include an adult book store;
         (d)   Consumer electronics or appliance store;
         (e)   Florist;
         (f)   Gift shop;
         (g)   Grocery store or supermarket;
         (h)   Specialty food store, to include the following:
            1.   Bakery or delicatessen, when goods are not sold for immediate
consumption on the premises; and
            2.   Fresh food market.
         (i)   Furniture or home furnishings store;
         (j)   Jewelry store;
         (k)   Pharmacy or drug store;
         (l)   Health supplement store; and
         (m)   Office supply store.
      (3)   Convenience store, including automotive fuel sales subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Fuel pumps shall be at least 25 feet from any future street
right-of-way or 50 feet from the street centerline, whichever is greater;
         (b)   Adequate stacking capacity shall be provided to prevent traffic
from backing onto public streets; and
         (c)   Fueling spots will not be included in total parking space
calculations.
      (4)   Auto service station, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   All activities, except those to be performed at the fuel pumps
shall be performed within a completely enclosed building;
         (b)   Fuel pumps shall be at least 25 feet from any future street
right-of-way or 50 feet from the street centerline, whichever is greater;
         (c)   All automobile parts and dismantled vehicles are to be located
within a building;
         (d)   Full body paint spraying or body or fender work shall not be
permitted;
         (e)   Automobiles that are taken to a service station for outside
storage, which must be in a screened fenced area not visible from public access
point, may remain no longer than 60 days from the day vehicle arrives at the
station; and
         (f)   Adequate stacking capacity shall be provided to prevent traffic
from backing onto public streets.
      (5)   Car wash, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Traffic flow and ingress/egress shall not cause traffic backups
on adjacent streets;
         (b)   On-lot traffic circulation channels and parking areas shall be
clearly marked;
         (c)   Signs and outdoor lighting shall be in accordance with this
chapter;
         (d)   Adequate provisions shall be made for proper and convenient
disposal of refuse; and
         (e)   On-site recycling of water shall be required.
      (6)   Restaurant, standard, including those with outdoor seating;
      (7)   Restaurant, fast-food, including those with outdoor seating,
subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   A bakery or delicatessen shall be included in this use where
goods are prepared and sold for immediate consumption on the premises;
         (b)   Where a drive-through window is proposed, a stacking lane shall
be provided to serve a minimum of ten cars. Stacking lane shall not be used for
parking lot circulation isles, nor shall it in anyway conflict with through
circulation of parking;
         (c)   The use may provide an outdoor menu board with a maximum sign
area of 30 square feet (beyond the sign restrictions established by this
chapter) if drive-through service is provided from within the building to
customers in their vehicles; and
         (d)   Trash receptacles shall be provided outside the restaurant for
patron use.
      (8)   Tavern, bar or nightclub, not to include an after-hours club or
adult use, subject to the following provisions: the use shall not be open after
2:00 a.m., nor before 10:00 a.m.;
      (9)   Financial institution or bank, not to include a check-cashing
business, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Any drive-through windows and approach lanes shall be located to
avoid traffic conflicts and hazards within the site and along abutting streets;
and
         (b)   Cars: total stacking lane(s) shall not be used for parking lot
circulation isles nor shall it in any way conflict with through circulation of
parking.
      (10)   Personal services uses, as follows (not to include adult uses):
         (a)   Barber or beauty salon;
         (b)   Dry cleaner;
         (c)   Photo studio;
         (d)   Shoe repair or tailor; and
         (e)   Household appliance repair.
      (11)   Hotel/motel, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Units in such facilities shall contain a minimum of 200 square
feet of floor space, with a minimum of two rooms: a bedroom, and a separate
bathroom equipped with a flush toilet, a sink and a bathtub or shower, all
properly connected to a public water and sewer system;
         (b)   Indoor recreation facilities primarily directed towards guests
of the use and a restaurant may be permitted as accessory uses to a hotel or
motel;
         (c)   A hotel or motel shall serve only temporary guests. A use that
is routinely inhabited by any persons for periods longer than 60 days in any
90-day period shall not be permitted; and
         (d)   Complete coverage with an automatic fire alarm system and an
automatic sprinkler system shall be provided.
      (12)   Banquet hall, convention center or conference center, subject to
the following provisions:
         (a)   Food and/or alcoholic beverages may only be sold or served for
on-premises consumption and only during scheduled events; and
         (b)   The use shall comply with the noise level standards per §
155.177 of this chapter.
      (13)   Auditorium, commercial, including a stadium or arena, subject to
the following provisions:
         (a)   Lighting which is perceptible beyond the property line shall be
minimized in accordance with §
155.180 of this chapter;
         (b)   The use shall comply with the noise level standards per §
155.177 of this chapter; and
         (c)   The minimum land area required shall be one acre per each 100
seats.
      (14)   Cultural center, including museum, library or art gallery;
      (15)   Recreation, indoor commercial, including a theater or movie
theater (not including drive-in theater), amusement arcade, bowling alley,
skating rink or laser tag facility, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project audible sound in excess of the sound levels per §
155.177 of this chapter; and
         (b)   Lighting shall be allowed in accordance with §
155.180 of this chapter.
      (16)   Exercise club, indoor, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   All activities shall be performed within a completely enclosed
building;
         (b)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project audible sound beyond the property line; and
         (c)   Lighting shall be allowed in accordance with §
155.180 of this chapter.
      (17)   Business, professional or government office, subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Such use shall be carried on entirely indoors and within a
principal building; and
         (b)   No structure designed for office use shall include any dwelling
unit(s).
      (18)   Medical office, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Such use shall be carried on entirely indoors and within a
principal building; and
         (b)   This use does not include inpatient treatment centers or
inpatient mental care facilities.
      (19)   Business services, as follows:
         (a)   Photocopying service;
         (b)   Package delivery service; and
         (c)   Sales, service, repair and/or maintenance of computers, business
machine and office equipment.
      (20)   Essential services, §
155.070 of this chapter.
   (C)   Multiple buildings on a lot.
      (1)   An approved commercial lot may include more than one principal
building.
         (a)   The minimum building setback requirements shall only apply at
the lot lines of the property.
         (b)   A 25-foot wide minimum separation distance shall apply between
principal buildings, unless stated otherwise herein or in this chapter or
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The applicant for each use on a lot shall be required to apply for
a separate building and zoning permit.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy.
      (1)   A principal commercial building may be occupied by more than one
use; provided that, all uses are permitted within this chapter; and, provided
that, all other requirements of this chapter are complied with.
      (2)   The applicant for each use within a multiple occupancy building
shall be required to apply for a separate building and zoning permit through
the required processes.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 305-2024, passed 8-5-2024
§ 155.116 AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. Two acres; provided that:
      (1)   Each parcel shall be part of an overall commercial development;
      (2)   Vehicular access shall be provided as part of the coordinated
internal driveway system throughout the entire commercial development;
      (3)   No additional exterior access points shall be provided onto Main
Street other than a right in driveway pursuant to the approval of the state’s
Department of Transportation; and
      (4)   No additional exterior access points shall be provided onto Eighth
Street other than a right in/right out driveway pursuant to the approval of the
state’s Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. Individual outparcels shall have a minimum lot
width of 150 feet.
   (C)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum total building coverage: 35%;
      (2)   Maximum total impervious coverage: 80%; and
      (3)   Minimum landscaped area: 20%.
   (D)   Building setback from exterior lot lines.
      (1)   A minimum of 15 feet from the future right-of-way of any public
street;
      (2)   A minimum of 25 feet from all abutting lot lines of a lot not
within the Main Street Commercial District; and
      (3)   A minimum of 15 feet from all abutting lot lines of a lot that is
within the Main Street Commercial District.
   (E)   Parking setback. All parking areas shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from the Main Street right-of-way.
   (F)   Maximum building height. 35 feet from finished ground level.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 305-2024, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 155.117 BUILDING STANDARDS AND ORIENTATION.
   (A)   The main entrance of a building or use shall be identified by being
recessed in from the surrounding wall or projecting out from the surrounding
wall, and/or by windows, roof overhangs, awnings, lighting or combinations
thereof so as to be readily identifiable to persons visiting that building.
   (B)   Blank walls shall not be permitted along any wall that faces a street.
The first story facade of any wall that is visible from a street shall be at
least 25% transparent and may contain an entrance.
   (C)   All exterior building walls shall be finished with brick, cut stone,
smooth precast concrete, poured concrete panels, split-face masonry blocks,
stucco, plaster, clear or lightly tinted glass or combinations thereof.
Standard concrete block or metal shall not be permitted as a visible wall
material.
   (D)   For buildings that contain more than one use, the building shall be
designed to give the appearance of a separate facade for each use on the first
floor. Uses shall be differentiated by columns, alternate materials, recesses,
projections, roof overhangs, awnings or combinations thereof within an overall
design scheme.
   (E)   Exterior building walls shall use neutral colors. Contrasting trim,
color bands and/or textures may be used to create contrast.
   (F)   Loading doors or service entrances shall use the same color as the
wall on which they are located.
   (G)   Building mechanical systems, including, but not limited to, air-
conditioning units, exhaust systems, satellite dishes and elevator housing,
shall be located on the roof whenever possible. Any mechanical systems not
mounted on the roof shall be enclosed with fencing and/or covering that is the
same color as the building.
   (H)   Public utility service shall be placed underground whenever feasible.
   (I)   Trash receptacles and above-ground utility equipment shall be placed
to the side or rear of the nearest building.
      (1)   All trash receptacles shall be enclosed by landscaping, fencing,
walls or other enclosures.
      (2)   All fencing, walls and/or enclosures used for trash receptacles
shall be the same color as the building with which they are associated.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.118 SIGNS.
   (A)   Permitted signs. The following types of signs are permitted within the
Main Street Commercial District:
      (1)   Signs relating to a single use occupying an individual structure on
a single lot:
         (a)   Freestanding signs:
            1.   One freestanding ground-supported (monument) sign shall be
permitted with a total sign area not to exceed 30 square feet; and
            2.   If a lot has a total linear street frontage of more than 300
feet or if the lot has frontage on more than one street, a second freestanding
ground-supported sign is permitted with a total maximum sign area of 60 square
feet for the two signs together.
         (b)   Wall signs: one wall sign shall be permitted for each building
wall facing a public street, each with a total sign area not to exceed 15% of
the total area of the building wall on which the sign is located. The maximum
total wall sign area shall be 60 square feet;
         (c)   Window signs: the total sign area of window signs, as defined
herein, shall not exceed 20% of the total area of the window on which the sign
is located;
         (d)   Signs not requiring permits per §
155.212 of this chapter; and
         (e)   Temporary signs per §
155.212 of this chapter.
      (2)   Signs relating to more than one commercial use or building on a
lot:
         (a)   Freestanding signs:
            1.   One freestanding ground-supported (monument) sign shall be
permitted with a maximum sign area not to exceed 30 square feet, except where
such sign is located within 100 feet of the right-of-way. This sign may consist
of a structure to which are attached several signs, within the total sign area.
A freestanding sign may include a digital sign or electronically changing
message sign; provided that, it meets the size requirements of this section and
the provisions of this chapter;
            2.   If a lot has a total linear road frontage of more than 300
feet on Main Street or if the lot has frontage on more than one street or if
the lot includes more than five principal uses, a second
freestanding sign shall be allowed with a total maximum sign area of 100 square
feet for the two signs together. Where more than one sign may be permitted on a
lot under the provisions above, only one sign shall be a digital sign or
electronically changing message sign; provided that, it meets the size
requirements of this section and the provisions of this chapter; and
            3.   It is the specific intent of this section that for buildings
including more than one use, that each use be identified as part of one
coordinated freestanding sign structure and not by individual freestanding
signs.
         (b)   Wall signs: up to two wall signs shall be permitted for each
use. One wall sign shall be allowed on the wall of the building containing the
main entrance to the building. If the primary entrance is not on the wall of
the building which faces the street, a second wall sign shall be permitted on
the wall of the building which faces the street. For each use, the sign area of
a wall sign shall not exceed 15% of the area of the wall on which the sign is
located, up to a maximum sign area of 50 square feet;
         (c)   Window signs: the total sign area of window signs, as defined in
§§
155.210 through
155.222 of this chapter, shall not exceed 20% of the total area of the window
on which the sign is located;
         (d)   Signs identifying major developments per §
155.219 of this chapter;
         (e)   Signs not requiring permits per §
155.212 of this chapter; and
         (f)   Temporary signs per §
155.212 of this chapter.
   (B)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Freestanding pole signs are prohibited.
      (2)   Signs on mobile or movable stands are prohibited.
   (C)   Height.
      (1)   Freestanding signs advertising one use shall be limited to a
maximum height of ten feet.
      (2)   Freestanding signs advertising more than one use shall be limited
to a height of 20 feet.
      (3)   The maximum height of wall sign placements shall not exceed the
height of the wall on which they are located.
   (D)   Illumination.
      (1)   Externally illuminated signs shall be illuminated by a white light
that does not move or change intensity. External light shall be directed at the
sign without light spillover and without causing glare for motorists,
pedestrians or neighboring properties.
      (2)   Externally illuminated signs may be backlit with a diffused or
shielded light source to control glare. Backlighting shall illuminate the
letters, characters or graphics on the sign, but not its background.
      (3)   Internally illuminated signs shall have a dark background with
illuminated text that accounts for a maximum of 20% of the total sign area.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.119 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In addition to the off-street parking requirements in §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, the following requirements shall apply
to uses within the Main Street Commercial District.
   (A)   General. The design of parking and circulation areas on the site shall
address the needs of different users to the site, such as customers, employees
and truck loading and unloading.
      (1)   Parking areas for customers shall be located closest to the main
entrance of the building.
      (2)   All parking areas on a lot shall be accessible from within the lot.
   (B)   Interconnection of off-street parking areas.
      (1)   (a)   To reduce traffic congestion and minimize the number of curb
cuts along Main Street, parking areas shall be connected to adjacent parcels
through a rear or side yard access road.
         (b)   Where a parking area is constructed and is adjacent to an
undeveloped parcel, the access drive shall be extended to the lot line for
future connection.
      (2)   The use of shared access points is required. Adjacent uses shall
share ingress and egress points to serve both uses.
      (3)   Access onto arterial and collector streets shall conform to the
standards in this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Internal walkways.
      (1)   Pedestrian walkways shall be provided for customers and employees
to travel between buildings and parking areas.
      (2)   Pedestrian walkways shall be provided between the sidewalk and the
main entrance of all principal buildings.
      (3)   Pedestrian walkways shall be constructed with a different pavement
material than that used for streets and parking areas so as to differentiate
the walkway from the driving areas. Pedestrian walkways may be constructed with
concrete, decorative bricks, blocks or stone, not including crushed stone.
   (D)   Fire zones.
      (1)   At the direction of the Borough Volunteer Fire Department, fire
zones shall be set aside and marked around each building to ensure access by
fire vehicles. Such marking shall consist of metallic signs or painted lines,
or both, bearing the legend “No Parking - Fire Zone” or “No Parking - Fire
Lane”.
      (2)   In addition to the loading requirements in this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, the following requirements shall apply
to uses within the Main Street Commercial District: loading and unloading areas
shall be located at the rear of a building. If loading and unloading areas are
not possible at the rear of a building, then they may be located at the side of
a building; provided that, they are screened from view of the street using
fencing, a wall that matches the architectural style of the principal building,
dense landscaping or combinations thereof.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.120 STREETSCAPE PERFORMANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided for all uses within the Tatamy
Borough Main Street Commercial District. Sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with all current local, state and federal regulations and
specifications and installed to connect to the property line of adjacent
parcels.
   (B)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall be provided along all street
frontages in the Tatamy Borough Main Street Commercial District.
      (1)   Streetlight poles shall have a maximum height of 20 feet and shall
be placed a maximum of 100 feet apart.
      (2)   All streetlight poles and fixtures shall be supplied in accordance
with design standards set forth by the electric utility company.
      (3)   The design of streetlight poles and fixtures shall be consistent
throughout the Tatamy Borough Business District.
      (4)   Cobra-head style streetlights shall be prohibited.
      (5)   All street lighting shall be directed downward.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 155.121 TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Road capacity. To ensure that the road network is able to handle
additional traffic from intensive types of development, the following
conditions shall be met.
      (1)   A traffic impact report shall be submitted as required by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The Borough Engineer shall review, at the expense of the applicant,
any professional traffic studies that are presented and make recommendations to
the borough.
      (3)   The provisions of §
154.156 of this code of ordinances shall also apply to any use that involves
construction of one or more new principal buildings.
   (B)   Access management. The Route 33/Main Street Interchange project will
make Main Street a critical corridor for traffic movement. The number of access
points onto Main Street needs to be minimized and traffic shall be steered
towards a minimum number of strategically planned intersections and traffic
signals. In order to minimize traffic congestion and hazards, the following
access management provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Access to two or more adjoining lots shall be combined, shared and/
or coordinated to minimize the number of access points onto a public street.
Shared parking lots and access drives or access points connecting adjacent lots
are strongly encouraged. The provision of joint access shall be subject to the
creation of an easement with the deed allowing cross access between the
properties within the access road area. The joint access arrangements shall
include a recorded joint agreement with the deed defining the maintenance
responsibilities of each of the property owners served by the access road.
      (2)   Developments consisting of three or more principal structures shall
make use of a carefully coordinated interior street system.
         (a)   Each principal building shall have its main vehicle access onto
a common parking lot, access drive, service road, marginal access street or
other alternative method approved by the borough.
         (b)   Vehicle access shall be provided to each use without causing
congestion to, hazards upon or interference with traffic movement on public
streets.
         (c)   All access to outparcel of a development shall be provided using
internal access drives. Separate access to outparcel from collector or local
streets shall be prohibited.
      (3)   The minimum distance between an access point or driveway and a
street intersection on the same or opposite side of a street shall be as
follows, measured from centerline to centerline:
         (a)   From Main Street: 300 feet;
         (b)   From a collector street: 200 feet; and
         (c)   From a local street: 100 feet.
      (4)   An access point or driveway shall be separated a minimum distance
of 100 feet from any other access point or driveway onto the same street,
measured from centerline to centerline.
      (5)   The access control provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances shall also apply, except that where the
requirements of this chapter are more restrictive.
(Ord. 263-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 155.135 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter establishes specific requirements for specific uses,
in addition to the general requirements of this chapter and the requirements of
each district.
   (B)   For uses allowed within a specific zoning district as “special
exception” or “conditional uses”, see §§
155.027 and
155.028 of this chapter. These sections list a set of additional standards and
procedures to be used in determining whether a proposed special exception or
conditional use should be approved.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 401)
§ 155.136 SPECIFIC PRINCIPAL USES.
   (A)   Each of the following uses shall meet all of the following
requirements for that use:
      (1)   Adult use (this is limited to the following: adult bookstore, adult
movie theater, massage parlor or cabaret):
         (a)   No such use shall be located within 500 lineal feet of the lot
line of any primary or secondary school, place of worship, public park, day
care center, child nursery, library, existing dwelling or any site marked as a
proposed future park location on the Borough Official Map;
         (b)   No such use shall be located within 1,000 lineal feet of any
existing “adult use”;
         (c)   A 40-foot buffer yard shall be provided, regardless of zoning
district, along the side and rear lot lines in accordance with §
155.152 of this chapter, but with plantings of an initial minimum height of
five feet;
         (d)   No pornographic material or words shall be placed in view of
persons who are not inside of the establishment. Definite precautions shall be
made to prohibit minors from entering the premises;
         (e)   The applicant must prove to the satisfaction of the Borough
Council that such use would not in any way adversely affect the character of
the surrounding area, including property values;
         (f)   No such use shall be used for any purpose that violates any
federal, state or borough law. Any violation of this zoning requirement
involving a serious criminal offense that the proprietor has continuing
knowledge of and allows to occur shall be sufficient reason for the borough to
withdraw borough permits;
         (g)   See §
155.218 of this chapter;
         (h)   No such use shall be allowed in combination with the sale of
alcoholic beverages;
         (i)   The use shall not include the sale or display of “obscene”
materials, as defined by state law, as may be amended by applicable court
decisions;
         (j)   These uses are specifically prohibited in all districts, except
the LI District;
         (k)   A minimum lot area of two acres is required;
         (l)   For public health reasons, private or semi-private viewing
booths of any kind are prohibited. This specifically includes, but is not
limited to, booths for viewing adult movies or nude dancers. No room of any
kind accessible to customers shall include less than 150 square feet;
         (m)   No use may include live actual or simulated sex acts;
         (n)   Only “lawful” massages as defined by state court decisions shall
be performed in a massage parlor; and
         (o)   All employees in a massage parlor or adult movie theater shall
wear non-transparent outer garments that cover their genitals and the female
areola.
      (2)   Adult day care center:
         (a)   Shall be fully licensed by the state, if required;
         (b)   Shall include constant supervision during all hours of
operation; and
         (c)   Shall not meet the definition of a “criminal treatment center”.
      (3)   Animal cemetery:
         (a)   All the regulations for a “cemetery” in this section shall
apply; and
         (b)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Borough
Engineer that the use will be conducted in such a manner that the public health
and ground water quality will not be threatened.
      (4)   Animal husbandry:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: five acres;
         (b)   Any newly developed indoor area used for the keeping of animals
or indoor or outdoor manure storage areas or feeding areas that are part of an
animal husbandry use shall be located a minimum of 150 feet from all exterior
lot lines and a minimum of 300 feet from the following: all dwellings (except
the dwelling of the owner or lessee), residential district boundaries, existing
restaurants and existing office uses;
         (c)   Any additions to an existing indoor area used for the keeping of
animals or indoor or outdoor manure storage areas or feeding areas that are
part of an animal husbandry use shall be located a minimum of 150 feet from all
exterior lot lines, residential district boundaries and dwellings (except the
dwelling of the owner or lessee);
         (d)   Any area used for the keeping of animals as part of an animal
husbandry use that is not regulated by the standards of divisions (A)(4)(b) and
(A)(4)(c) above shall be separated by a fence or wall and setback 50 feet from
any lot line of an existing dwelling or any lot line within a residential
district; and
         (e)   The keeping of minks or garbage-fed pigs shall be setback a
minimum of 300 feet from all lot lines.
      (5)   Auditorium, commercial:
         (a)   A 40-foot buffer yard shall completely separate the structure
and all off-street parking areas from any lot line of any residential use or
residential district;
         (b)   A commercial auditorium shall have a minimum lot size of one
acre for each 150 seats; and
         (c)   The structure of a commercial auditorium with a capacity of 300
or more persons shall be setback a minimum of 300 feet from the lot line of any
residential use or residential district.
      (6)   Auto repair garage:
         (a)   All major repair, welding and paint work shall be performed
within an enclosed building, with a ventilation system that is directed away
from any adjacent dwellings;
         (b)   All reasonable efforts shall be made to prevent or minimize
noise, odor, vibration, light or electrical interference to adjacent lots;
         (c)   Outdoor storage of autos and other vehicles shall not be within
a paved area setback required by §
155.197 of this chapter, nor closer than 20 feet from any residential lot line;
         (d)   Overnight outdoor storage of junk shall be prohibited within
view of a public street or a dwelling;
         (e)   No “junk vehicle” (as defined by §
155.008 of this chapter) shall be stored within view of a public street or a
dwelling for a total of more than ten days;
         (f)   Service bay doors shall not face directly towards an abutting
dwelling, not including a dwelling separated from the garage by a street; and
         (g)   A use that is primarily intended to serve trucks with six or
more wheels shall have a minimum lot area of five acres, and all areas used for
repairs, fueling and serving of such vehicles shall be setback a minimum of 250
feet from all existing residential lot lines and residential zoning boundaries.
      (7)   Auto, boat or manufactured home sales:
         (a)   No vehicle or home on display shall occupy any part of the
existing or future street right-of-way or required parking area or any paved
area setback required by §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter; and
         (b)   See light and glare standards in §
155.180 of this chapter.
      (8)   Auto service station:
         (a)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter of “auto repair garage”;
         (b)   All activities, except those to be performed at the fuel or air
pumps shall be performed within a completely enclosed building;
         (c)   Fuel pumps shall be at least 25 feet from the existing street
right-of-way;
         (d)   No vehicle parts or dismantled vehicles shall be visible from a
public street or dwelling;
         (e)   No “junk vehicle” (as defined by §
155.008 of this chapter) shall be stored within view of a public street or a
dwelling for more than a total of ten days;
         (f)   There shall be an ability for a minimum of four vehicles to be
serviced at each cluster of gasoline pumps or to be lined up behind cars being
serviced, without obstruction of access into or out of the driveways from
public streets; and
         (g)   A use that is primarily intended to serve trucks with six or
more wheels shall have a minimum lot area of five acres, and all areas used for
fueling and servicing shall be setback a minimum of 250 feet from all existing
residential lot lines and residential zoning district boundaries.
      (9)   Betting use:
         (a)   Shall be located abutting an arterial or collector street, as
defined by the Official Street Classification Map;
         (b)   Minimum lot area: three acres;
         (c)   Minimum building setback from the lot line of any place of
worship, residential zoning district or publicly-owned recreation area: 300
feet; and
         (d)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that the use will provide adequate on-site parking.
      (10)   Boarding house:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
         (b)   Minimum setback from all lot lines: 50 feet;
         (c)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet;
         (d)   Maximum density: three bedrooms or six persons per acre;
         (e)   Each sleeping room shall be limited to two persons each;
         (f)   A 20-foot wide buffer yard with screening meeting the provisions
of §
155.152 of this chapter shall be provided between any boarding house building
and any abutting single-family detached dwelling that is within 100 feet of the
proposed boarding house building;
         (g)   Interior space: a minimum of 400 square feet of interior floor
space per resident;
         (h)   Maximum number of residents: 20;
         (i)   See also standards for “personal care centers” which is a
separate use;
         (j)   Signs: shall be limited to two wall signs with a maximum of two
square feet each; and
         (k)   Rooms shall be rented for a minimum period of seven days.
      (11)   Beverage bottling plant: public sewer and public water service
shall be provided;
      (12)   Bus station (for service between metropolitan areas; bus stations
and bus stops for local bus service are not regulated by this chapter):
         (a)   Street access from the bus station to an arterial street or an
expressway shall not require driving on a collector or local street that is
primarily residential;
         (b)   Shall provide an area for the loading and unloading of buses
separate from required off-street parking areas and a separate area for pick-up
and drop-off of persons from private vehicles; and
         (c)   May be an accessory use to a permitted shopping center or
restaurant; provided that, the applicant shows that there is adequate room for
movements by the bus on the site or an adequate street shoulder for stops.
      (13)   Campground:
         (a)   Any sleeping quarters or tent sites shall not be within the 100-
year floodplain and shall be setback a minimum of 75 feet from all exterior lot
lines;
         (b)   There shall be a maximum average of two recreational vehicle
sites or five family tent sites or cabin sleeping capacity for six persons per
acre of total lot area. Such sites may be clustered in portions of the tract;
         (c)   Maximum impervious coverage: 10%;
         (d)   Any store shall be limited to sales of common household and
camping items to persons camping on the site; and
         (e)   A commercial campground shall include at least one gravel or
paved entrance road from a public street, with a minimum width of 16 feet.
      (14)   Car wash:
         (a)   Traffic flow and ingress-egress shall not cause traffic hazards
on adjacent streets;
         (b)   On-lot traffic circulation channels and parking areas shall be
clearly marked;
         (c)   Adequate provisions shall be made for the proper and convenient
disposal of refuse;
         (d)   Water used in the operation shall be collected and recycled, and
shall not flow into any storm sewers or waterways;
         (e)   Water from the car wash operation shall not flow onto sidewalks
or streets, to prevent hazards from ice;
         (f)   Any car wash that is located within 250 feet of an existing
dwelling shall not operate between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
         (g)   Any chemicals that may be hazardous to aquatic life shall be
stored within an area that will completely contain any leaks or spills.
      (15)   Cemetery:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
         (b)   A crematorium, where allowed, shall be setback a minimum of 200
feet from all lot lines of existing dwellings and all residentially zoned land
exterior to the cemetery;
         (c)   All structures and graves shall be setback a minimum of 30 feet
from the lot line of an abutting residential use or any abutting residentially
zoned lot, 20 feet from the future right-of-way of any public street and ten
feet from the cartway of an internal driveway;
         (d)   No grave sites shall be located within the 100-year floodplain;
and
         (e)   The use shall include an appropriate system for perpetual
maintenance.
      (16)   Communications tower, commercial:
         (a)   A commercial communications tower shall be setback a distance
equivalent to one-half of the height of the antenna from all lot lines and
existing street right-of-way lines;
         (b)   A freestanding commercial communications tower with a height
greater than 50 feet above the natural ground level shall not be located in a
residential district unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the
Zoning Hearing Board that no other appropriate sites in other districts are
available within the borough, especially space on existing towers;
         (c)   The base of a freestanding tower shall be surrounded by a secure
fence with a minimum height of eight feet; and
         (d)   Any freestanding tower that is within 100 feet of a public
street or dwelling shall be surrounded by evergreen screening within §
155.152(D) of this chapter.
      (17)   Conversions to residential use and conversions increasing the
number of dwelling units (not including development of one accessory apartment
within a single-family detached dwelling):
         (a)   Applicable state fire safety requirements shall be met;
         (b)   Sewer service: any on-lot septic system shall be recertified if
the sewage flows will expand;
         (c)   The following regulations shall apply to the conversion of an
existing single-family detached dwelling into a greater number of dwelling
units.
            1.   The building shall maintain the appearance of a single-family
detached dwelling with a single front entrance. Additional entrances may be
placed on the side or rear of the structure. The dwelling units may internally
share the single front entrance.
            2.   The conversion shall not be permitted if it would require the
placement of an exterior stairway on the front of the building or would require
the placement of more than three off-street parking spaces in the required
front yard.
         (d)   A previously residential building shall maintain a clearly
residential appearance, except as may be necessary for restoration of a
historic building;
         (e)   Separate cooking and sanitary facilities shall be provided for
each dwelling unit;
         (f)   Off-street parking lots with four or more spaces shall be
buffered from abutting dwellings by evergreen screening meeting the
requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter;
         (g)   Any trash dumpster shall be screened from view of a public
street or abutting dwelling;
         (h)   See, if applicable, requirements for “accessory apartment within
an existing single-family detached dwelling” within §
155.137 of this chapter;
         (i)   A site plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer; and
         (j)   Each dwelling unit shall include a minimum of 800 square feet of
habitable heated indoor floor area.
      (18)   Grot storage, commercial: any indoor storage shall not occur in
ways that threaten a serious explosive hazard;
      (19)   Cultural center/community center: no active outdoor recreation
area shall be located closer than 25 feet to any abutting dwelling;
      (20)   Day care center (includes nursery school): as a principal use:
         (a)   See also day care center/nursery school as an accessory use in §
155.137 of this chapter;
         (b)   The use shall comply with any applicable county, state and
federal regulations, including having an appropriate State Department of Public
Welfare registration certificate or license;
         (c)   Convenient parking spaces within the requirements of §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter shall be provided for persons delivering and waiting
for children;
         (d)   In residential districts, shall have a minimum lot area of
20,000 square feet;
         (e)   Shall include adequate measures to ensure the safety of children
from traffic or other nearby hazards;
         (f)   Outside play areas in residential districts shall be limited to
use between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. if located within 200 feet of a dwelling;
         (g)   Outdoor play areas of a day care center involving the care of 25
or more children at any one time shall be setback a minimum of 25 feet from the
exterior walls of an abutting existing occupied dwelling;
         (h)   This use shall not be conducted in a dwelling that is physically
attached to another dwelling;
         (i)   In residential districts, any permitted day care center shall
maintain an exterior appearance that resembles and is compatible with any
existing dwellings in the neighborhood; and
         (j)   A day care center may occur in a building that also includes
permitted or non-conforming dwelling units.
      (21)   Essential services: see standards in §
155.070 of this chapter;
      (22)   Financial institution: any drive-in window(s) and waiting lanes
shall be located and have capacity for sufficient numbers of vehicles to ensure
that traffic conflicts and hazards are avoided within the site and along the
streets and highways adjoining the use;
      (23)   Forestry, commercial (excluding plant nursery):
         (a)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (b)   A forestry management plan shall be prepared and followed for
any commercial forestry involving more than two acres. This plan shall be
prepared by a professional forester;
         (c)   The Forestry Management Plan shall be consistent with the Timber
Harvesting Guidelines of the state’s Forestry Association;
         (d)   Clearcutting shall be prohibited except on tracts of less than
two acres. This provision shall not apply to state game lands where
clearcutting is done to benefit the natural habitat;
         (e)   On tracts larger than two acres, at least 25% of the forest
cover (canopy) shall be kept and the residual trees shall be well distributed.
At least 25% of these residual trees shall be composed of higher value species
as determined by a professional forester;
         (f)   An Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan shall be submitted to
the County Conservation District for any review and recommendation;
         (g)   The Forestry Management Plan shall include an appropriate method
to ensure re-forestation, except for areas approved for a permitted use; and
         (h)   Commercial forestry is prohibited on areas with slopes greater
than 25% or within the 100-year floodplain.
      (24)   Funeral home: minimum lot area of two acres;
      (25)   Garden apartments: see “townhouses and garden apartments”;
      (26)   Golf course:
         (a)   The course shall be designed so that golf balls are highly
unlikely to enter public streets or property that is not part of the golf
course;
         (b)   A clubhouse, retail sales of golf supplies and/or restaurant may
be permitted as an accessory use if located a minimum of 250 feet from any
exterior lot line;
         (c)   Minimum lot area: 20 acres;
         (d)   Any outdoor lighting shall be located and designed in such a way
that the lighting is not easily visible from adjacent dwellings;
         (e)   Maximum building coverage: 5%;
         (f)   Maximum impervious coverage: 10%; and
         (g)   Fairways and greens shall be setback a minimum of 40 feet from
the lot line of any existing dwelling.
      (27)   Group home:
         (a)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (b)   There shall be adequate supervision as needed by a person
trained in the field for which the group home is intended;
         (c)   The use shall be licensed or certified under an applicable
state, county or federal program for group housing, if applicable. A copy of
any such license or certification shall be filed with the borough, and also
shall be required to be provided to the Zoning Officer upon request;
         (d)   Any medical or counseling services provided on the lot shall be
limited to residents and up to three non-residents during any day;
         (e)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each employee
on duty at any one time, and every two residents of a type reasonably expected
to be capable of driving a vehicle;
         (f)   The use shall not meet the definition of a “criminal treatment
center”. See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (g)   If the group home is located in a residential district, the
building shall be maintained and/or constructed to ensure that it is closely
similar in appearance, condition and character to the other residential
structures in the area. No exterior signs shall identify the type of use;
         (h)   The group home shall register its location, general type of
treatment/ care, maximum number of residents and sponsoring agency with the
borough. Such information shall be available for public review upon request;
         (i)   The group home shall notify the borough within 14 days if there
is a change in the type of clients, the sponsoring agency, the maximum number
of residents or if an applicable certification or license expires, is suspended
or is withdrawn;
         (j)   Number of residents in a lawful dwelling unit: maximum of five
persons, including the maximum number of employees routinely on the site during
any one period of time, except as listed below:
            1.   In a single-family detached dwelling with a minimum lot area
of 15,000 square feet and a minimum building setback from all lot lines of 15
feet: maximum of six persons;
            2.   In a single-family detached dwelling with a minimum lot area
of 30,000 square feet and a minimum building setback from all lot lines of 25
feet: maximum of nine persons; and
            3.   In a non-residential district, where permitted: maximum of 20
persons; provided, there is a minimum of 125 square feet of habitable interior
floor area per person.
         (k)   Off-street parking areas of more than four spaces shall be
buffered from adjacent existing single-family dwellings by a planting screen
meeting the requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter;
         (l)   If a group home will use an on-lot septic system and will
involve six or more persons routinely on the premises at any one time, the
septic system shall be required to be reviewed by the Borough Sewage
Enforcement Officer to determine if it is adequate;
         (m)   Employees of the group home shall be prohibited from having
visitors on the premises, unless such visitation is necessary for the operation
of the group home and except for emergencies; and
         (n)   The use shall provide illuminated “exit” signs, emergency
battery-powered lighting and a minimum of two “ABC” rated fire extinguishers.
      (28)   Heliport: see “airport, public or private” above;
      (29)   Hospital:
         (a)   At least two accessways or driveways with a minimum width of 20
feet. One of these accesses shall be from an arterial or collector street. The
second access may be limited to emergency vehicles;
         (b)   Reasonable consideration shall be given to design methods that
may be able to minimize serious noise conflicts from emergency sirens in the
vicinity of a residential district;
         (c)   Minimum lot area: two acres; and
         (d)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter.
      (30)   Hotel/motel:
         (a)   Recreational facilities limited to guests of the use and a
standard restaurant may be permitted accessory uses to a hotel or motel; and
         (b)   A hotel or motel shall serve only temporary guests. A use that
is routinely inhabited by any persons for periods longer than 30 days shall be
considered a boarding house and regulated as such.
      (31)   Junk yard (includes automobile salvage yard):
         (a)   Storage of garbage or biodegradable material is prohibited,
other than what is customarily generated on-site and routinely awaiting pick-
up;
         (b)   Outdoor storage of junk shall be at least 100 feet from any lot
line and any public street;
         (c)   The site shall contain a minimum of two exterior points of
access, each of which is not less than 20 feet in width. One of these accesses
may be limited to emergency vehicles;
         (d)   Outdoor storage shall be completely enclosed by a 50-foot wide
buffer yard which complies with §
155.152 of this chapter, unless such storage is not visible from an exterior
lot line or street. The initial height of the evergreen planting shall be six
feet. Secure fencing with a minimum height of seven feet shall be provided and
well-maintained around all outdoor storage areas;
         (e)   Burning or incineration of vehicles or junk is prohibited;
         (f)   See the noise or dust regulations of §
155.177 of this chapter;
         (g)   All gasoline and oil shall be drained from all vehicles and
properly disposed of. All batteries shall be removed from vehicles and properly
stored in a suitable area on an impervious, properly drained surface; and
         (h)   Maximum size: ten acres.
      (32)   Kennel:
         (a)   All buildings in which animals are housed and all runs shall be
located at least 200 feet from all lot lines of existing primarily residential
uses and the lot lines of undeveloped residentially zoned land;
         (b)   Buildings shall be adequately soundproofed so that sounds
generated within the buildings cannot be perceived within any adjacent
dwelling;
         (c)   No animal shall be permitted to use outdoor runs from 8:00 p.m.
to 8:00 a.m. that are within 300 feet of an existing dwelling. Runs for dogs
shall be separated from each other by visual barriers a minimum of four feet in
height, to minimize dog barking;
         (d)   See state laws regulating kennels;
         (e)   A kennel may be used for breeding; and
         (f)   Minimum lot area: three acres.
      (33)   Laundry/laundromat: public sewer and public water service shall be
provided;
      (34)   Mineral extraction:
         (a)   The activities and residual effects shall not create conditions
that are significantly hazardous to the health and safety of neighboring
residents;
         (b)   After areas are used for mineral extraction, they shall be
reclaimed in phases to a non- hazardous and environmentally sound state
permitting some economically productive future use;
         (c)   A 75-foot wide yard covered by natural vegetative ground cover
(except at approved driveway crossings) shall be required along all exterior
lot lines that are within 250 feet of an area of excavation or within 250 feet
of machinery that is greater than 35 feet in height. This yard shall include an
earthen berm averaging a minimum of six feet in height and an average of one
shade tree for each 50 feet of distance along the lot lines. Such shade trees
shall be planted outside of any berm and any fence, and shall meet the size and
type requirements of §
155.197 of this chapter;
         (d)   Minimum setbacks for excavation for mineral extraction:
            1.   One hundred feet from the future right-of-way of a public
street and from all exterior lot lines of the property;
            2.   One hundred fifty feet from a commercial or industrial
building, unless released by the owner thereof;
            3.   Two hundred fifty feet from a residential district boundary or
occupied residential or institutional use, other than property owned by the
owner of the. mineral extraction use;
            4.   Two hundred fifty feet from the lot line of a publicly owned
recreation area that existed at time of the application for the use or
expansion; and
            5.   One hundred fifty feet from the top of the bank of a perennial
stream or a natural wetland of more than two acres.
         (e)   Fencing: the Borough Council may require secure fencing in
locations where needed to protect public safety;
         (f)   Noise and performance standards: see §§
155.170 through
155.181 of this chapter;
         (g)   County Conservation District: a soil erosion and sedimentation
plan shall be prepared by the applicant, sent to the County Conservation
District, and found acceptable to Borough Council based upon the Conservation
District’s review;
         (h)   Engineering review: the application shall be sent to the Borough
Engineer or an alternate engineer appointed by Borough Council for a review,
with the reasonable costs of such review paid by the applicant;
         (i)   Hours of operation: the Borough Council may reasonably limit the
hours of operation of the use and of related trucking and blasting operations
to protect the character of adjacent residential areas;
         (j)   Borough Council and Planning Commission review: the applicant
shall submit a complete copy of all application materials and a site plan to
the Borough Council and to the Planning Commission for review;
         (k)   The applicant shall also submit a copy to the Zoning Officer of
all materials submitted by the applicant to state agencies regarding an
application for this project. The use shall comply with all applicable state
regulations as a condition of borough approvals under this chapter, and such
borough approval may be revoked for violation of this condition;
         (l)   Preemption: it is not the intent of this section to unlawfully
preempt any federal or state law or regulation. Unless a preemption of this
chapter would exist, the most strict and least permissive requirements shall be
in effect where a conflict might exist;
         (m)   Suitability of streets.
            1.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to prove to the
satisfaction of Borough Council that the public street system to be used will
be adequate for the amount of heavy truck traffic to be generated by the use.
            2.   If it is determined that the mineral extraction use would
create unusually heavy truck traffic and that the state and borough streets to
be used would be inadequate to handle this unusually heavy and non-customary
traffic, the applicant may be required by Borough Council to fund such
improvements to streets within one-half mile of the use as are reasonably
necessary to handle the heavy truck traffic that will be generated, or to post
such reasonable and necessary bonds to provide for any serious and
extraordinary damage that may result from the use of public streets by heavy
trucks from the use. Such improvements shall be in direct relation to the
traffic generated by the use. Such improvements may be made in phases and may
be handled through posting of bonds.
            3.   The Borough Council shall deny a mineral extraction
application if the public streets would be physically unable to handle the
heavy truck traffic and if the applicant refuses to fund the necessary
improvements. The applicant shall not be responsible for routine maintenance of
public streets.
         (n)   Application requirements: each application for a mineral
extraction use involving an excavation of more than one acre shall include the
following:
            1.   Present uses of the site;
            2.   A scaled map, prepared by a registered professional engineer,
showing the locations of:
               a.   The proposed area to be excavated (and maximum depth);
               b.   Other land to be affected including, but not limited to:
                  i.   Storage sites for overburden;
                  ii.   Access and haulage streets;
                  iii.   Storage sites for equipment; and
                  iv.   Offices and other accessory structures.
               c.   Lot lines of adjacent lots and owners and existing uses of
these lots;
               d.   Watercourses, bodies of water, street rights-of-way,
buildings and publicly- owned recreation areas within 300 feet of the
boundaries of land to be affected by the mineral extraction operation; and
               e.   Any forested areas to be removed or protected and preserved
as part of the use.
            3.   A detailed land reclamation plan of the area to be excavated,
showing:
               a.   Proposed use and topography of the land following the
mineral extraction; and
               b.   Actions to be taken during mining to conserve and replace
topsoil removed during mining operations.
            4.   Reasonable assurances that the applicant will be capable of
reclaiming the land in accordance with the plan within a reasonable time after
completion of the mineral extraction operations to be covered by the requested
permit.
         (o)   Regulation of the maximum acreage actively used for mineral
extraction.
            1.   To ensure that large areas of land will be reclaimed in
compliance with state and borough regulations, the Borough Council may
establish a maximum number of acres which may be “affected by mineral
extraction” at any one time on any lot or any series of lots owned by one
applicant or closely related applicants.
            2.   Land “affected by mineral extraction” shall mean all total
land area at any point in time that is currently under active mineral
extraction, that is not adequately reclaimed or backfilled following prior
extraction operations and/or that contains waste or spoil piles from existing
or prior mining activities.
      (35)   Mobile/manufactured home on an individual lot or within a mobile/
manufactured home park:
         (a)   Shall be constructed in accordance with the Safety and
Construction Standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
These standards supersede the BOCA Code;
         (b)   Shall have a site graded to provide a level, stable and well-
drained area;
         (c)   Shall have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed; and
         (d)   Foundation. Shall be placed on a permanent foundation as
follows, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer
that another method recommended by the manufacturer of the home would be
adequate:
            1.   The foundation system shall consist of ten-inch diameter
concrete piers, concrete footing perpendicular to the main longitudinal frame,
or equivalent and shall be installed from ground level to below the frost line
(36 inches minimum). This foundation system shall be placed on eight feet
centers along each of the two main longitudinal frames for each section of the
home with no more than three-foot overhang at each end of the section;
            2.   One-half inch diameter by 12-inch long eyebolts shall be cast
in place at each corner and at two midpoints in the concrete piers, concrete
footing or equivalent. Concrete blocks shall be used to support the home on the
foundation system and wood shims may be used for final leveling. The concrete
support blocks shall not be wider than the support foundation;
            3.   The mobile/manufactured home shall be securely anchored or
tied down with cable and turn buckles or equivalent connecting the frame to the
cast in place eyebolts on at least four corners and two midpoints. The tiedown
shall also be in accordance with the manufacturers’ recommendations furnished
with each home;
            4.   Homes shall not be placed more than four feet above the
supporting ground area;
            5.   Shall be enclosed from the bottom of the home to the ground or
stand using industry-approved skirting material compatible with the home;
            6.   Shall have a pitched instead of a flat roof; and
            7.   Should be located with the longest side facing the public
street.
      (36)   Mobile/manufactured home park:
         (a)   Shall have a minimum tract size of five acres and a maximum
overall density of no more than four mobile homes per acre (which may include
land in common open space or proposed streets);
         (b)   All units shall be served by public sanitary sewer and public
water service;
         (c)   Shall have a 25-foot buffer yard around the perimeter of the
site, meeting the requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter;
         (d)   Minimum separation between dwelling units: 20 feet;
         (e)   Minimum building setbacks:
            1.   From the exterior lot lines of the mobile home park: 50 feet;
            2.   From the future right-of-way of any arterial and collector
streets: 50 feet;
            3.   From local streets or the cartway of a private street: 25
feet; and
            4.   From parking courts of three or more off-street spaces: 15
feet.
         (f)   Recreation area: see the requirements of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, as amended;
         (g)   Each unit shall comply with the requirements for mobile/
manufactured homes, in §
155.136 of this chapter;
         (h)   A mobile/manufactured home park may include a recreation center
for residents, a rental/management office, maintenance buildings for the park,
a swimming pool(s) and the sale of mobile/ manufactured homes that will be
placed on the tract, but not the sale of homes for placement off the tract; and
         (i)   If any of these requirements conflict with those of the mobile
home park regulations of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, as amended, then the regulations of
this section shall apply instead.
      (37)   Nursery school: see “day care/nursery school” in this section;
      (38)   Nursing home:
         (a)   Licensing: see definition in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (b)   A minimum of 20% of the lot shall be suitable and developed for
passive recreation. This area shall include outdoor sitting areas and
pedestrian walks;
         (c)   The density shall not exceed more than one resident or bed per
400 square feet of total lot area;
         (d)   Setback: principal and accessory buildings shall be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from any lot line of an existing dwelling or undeveloped
residentially zoned land, unless a more restrictive setback is required by
another section.
      (39)   Personal care center: the standards for nursing homes in this
section shall apply;
      (40)   Picnic grove:
         (a)   No outdoor area within 250 feet of an existing dwelling shall be
actively used by patrons between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   See noise and glare standards in §§
155.170 through
155.181 of this chapter.
      (41)   Place of worship:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: one and one-half acres;
         (b)   Weekly religious education rooms and meeting rooms are permitted
accessory uses; provided that, such uses are of such a character and intensity
that they would be clearly customary and incidental to the place of worship. A
nursery school/day care center is also permitted, within the specific
requirements for such use in this section. Non-commercial buses used primarily
to transport persons to and from religious services may be parked on the lot;
         (c)   A maximum of one dwelling unit may be accessory to a place of
worship on the same lot. However, no dwellings shall be permitted within
industrial zoning districts; and
         (d)   The use of any building for worship by a maximum of five persons
at any point in time is not regulated under this chapter, and is permitted by
right in all districts.
      (42)   Plant nursery:
         (a)   Evergreen screening and buffer yards are not required around the
outdoor storage of trees or shrubs;
         (b)   The only retail sales that shall be permitted shall be of trees
and plants that were primarily grown upon the lot and clearly customary and
accessory sales of closely related items (such as mulch, topsoil and tools)
unless retail sales or a “retail store” are specifically permitted in the
district; and
         (c)   Minimum lot area: two acres.
      (43)   Recycling collection center:
         (a)   This use shall not be bound by the requirements of a solid waste
disposal facility;
         (b)   All materials shall be kept in appropriate containers, with
appropriate sanitary measures and frequent enough emptying to prevent the
attraction of insects or rodents and to avoid any fire hazards;
         (c)   Adequate provision shall be made for movement of trucks if
needed and for off-street parking;
         (d)   A 25-foot buffer yard with screening as described in §
155.152 of this chapter shall be provided between this use and any abutting
dwelling or abutting undeveloped residentially zoned land;
         (e)   This use may be a principal or accessory use, including being an
accessory use to a commercial use, an industrial use, a public or private
primary or secondary school, a place of worship or a borough-owned use, subject
to the limitations of this section;
         (f)   Materials to be collected shall be of the same character as the
following materials: paper, cardboard, plastic, metal, aluminum and glass. No
garbage shall be stored as part of the use, except for that generated on-site
and that accidentally collected with the recyclables;
         (g)   The use shall only include the following operations: collection,
sorting, baling, loading, weighing, routine cleaning and closely similar work.
No burning or landfilling shall occur. No mechanical crushing of cans shall
occur within 150 feet of a dwelling;
         (h)   The use shall not include the collection or processing of pieces
of metal that have a weight greater than 50 pounds, except within an industrial
district; and
         (i)   Any recycling collection center shall include the delivery to
the site of a maximum of 250 tons of materials if within an industrial district
and 20 tons if within a non-industrial district during any 24-hour period. A
maximum of 200 tons of materials shall be stored on a lot within a non-
industrial district at any one time. Only materials clearly being actively
processed for recycling may be stored on site.
      (44)   Restaurant, fast food or standard:
         (a)   Dumpster screening and waste containers: see §
155.181 of this chapter; and
         (b)   A maximum of two outdoor menu boards are permitted, beyond the
signs normally permitted, with a maximum sign area of 40 square feet each if
drive-thru service is provided, if the words on such signs are not readable
from beyond the lot line.
      (45)   School, public or private, primary or secondary:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: one acre, unless a larger acreage is required
by another section of this chapter;
         (b)   No children’s play equipment, basketball courts or illuminated
recreation facilities shall be within 25 feet of a lot line of an existing
dwelling;
         (c)   If the use involves more than 25 persons routinely on the lot at
any one point in time, the use shall be served by both public sewer and public
water services; and
         (d)   The use shall not include a dormitory unless specifically
permitted in the district.
      (46)   Self-storage development:
         (a)   All storage units shall be fire-resistant and water-resistant;
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be limited to recreational vehicles, boats
and trailers. No “junk vehicles” shall be stored within view of a public street
or a dwelling;
         (c)   Trash, radioactive or highly toxic substances, garbage, refuse,
explosives or flammable materials, hazardous substances, animal carcasses or
skins or similar items shall not be stored;
         (d)   Nothing shall be stored in interior traffic aisles, required
off-street parking areas, loading areas or accessways;
         (e)   Major body work on vehicles shall not be permitted. The use
shall not include a commercial auto repair garage unless that use is permitted
in the district and the use meets those requirements;
         (f)   Adequate lighting shall be provided for security, but it shall
be directed away or shielded from any adjacent residential uses;
         (g)   All outdoor storage areas located within 200 feet of the future
right-of-way of an expressway, arterial street or collector street shall be
separated from that street by a buffer yard with screening under §
155.152 of this chapter;
         (h)   Maximum building length: 200 feet; and
         (i)   Minimum separation between buildings: 20 feet.
      (47)   Solid waste transfer facility:
         (a)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (b)   All solid waste storage shall be at least 200 feet from the
following: public street right-of-way, exterior lot line, 100-year floodplain,
edge of a surface water body (including a water-filled quarry) or wetland of
more than two acres in area;
         (c)   All areas to be used for the storage or processing of solid
waste shall be a minimum of 500 feet from any of the following: residential
district, publicly-owned recreation use, existing dwelling that the applicant
does not have an agreement to purchase or banks of any perennial creek or
river;
         (d)   The use shall be served by a minimum of two paved access roads,
each with a minimum cartway width of 25 feet each. One of these accesses may be
limited to use by emergency vehicles;
         (e)   No burning or incineration shall occur as part of the use;
         (f)   The operation and day-to-day maintenance of the solid waste
disposal area shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations as
a condition of the continuance of any permit under this chapter. Violations of
this condition shall also be considered to be violations of this chapter;
         (g)   Open dumps and open burning of refuse are prohibited in all
districts;
         (h)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Borough
Council that the existing street network can handle the additional truck
traffic, especially without bringing extraordinary numbers of trash hauling
trucks through or alongside existing residential or residentially zoned areas;
         (i)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of Borough Council
that the use would not routinely create noxious odors off of the tract;
         (j)   A chainlink or other approved fence with a minimum height of six
feet shall surround active solid waste disposal areas to prevent the scattering
of litter and to keep out children, unless the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of Borough Council that it is unnecessary. The Borough Council
shall require adequate earthen berms, evergreen screening and shade trees
meeting the requirements of §
155.197 of this chapter as needed to prevent the operations from being visible
from an expressway or arterial streets or dwellings;
         (k)   Minimum lot area: five acres for the first 250 tons per day of
capacity of solid waste per day, plus one acre for each additional 100 tons per
day of capacity, with a maximum total of 750 tons of capacity per day;
         (l)   Health hazards: the facility shall be operated in such a manner
to prevent the attraction, harborage or breeding of insects, rodents or
vectors;
         (m)   Attendant: an attendant shall be present during all periods of
operation or dumping;
         (n)   Gates: secure gates, fences, earth mounds and/or dense
vegetation shall prevent unauthorized access;
         (o)   Emergency access: the operator of the use shall cooperate fully
with local emergency services. This should include allowing practice exercises
on the site and the provision of all information needed by the emergency
sendees to determine potential hazards. Adequate means of emergency access
shall be provided;
         (p)   Under authority granted to the borough under Act 101 of 1988,
the hours of operation shall be limited to between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
         (q)   Tires: see “outdoor storage and display” in §
155.137 of this chapter;
         (r)   Litter: the operator shall regularly police the area of the
facility and surrounding streets to collect litter that may escape from the
facility or trucks;
         (s)   Dangerous materials: no radioactive, hazardous, chemotherapeutic
or infectious materials may be stored, processed, disposed or incinerated.
Infectious materials are defined as medical wastes used or created in the
treatment of persons or animals with seriously contagious diseases;
         (t)   The applicant shall provide sufficient information for the
borough to determine that the requirements of this chapter will be met;
         (u)   State requirements: nothing in this chapter is intended to
supersede any state requirements. It is the intent of this chapter that when
similar issues are regulated on both the borough and state levels, that the
stricter requirement shall apply for each aspect, unless it is determined that
an individual state regulation preempts borough regulation in a particular
aspect. The applicant shall provide the Borough Secretary with a copy of all
written materials and plans that are submitted to State DER at the same time as
they are submitted to DER;
         (v)   A recycling collection center and/or bulk recycling center are
permitted in combination with permitted solid waste transfer facility;
         (w)   All loading and unloading of solid waste shall only occur within
an enclosed building and over an impervious surface drains to a holding tank
that is then adequately treated;
         (x)   At least a portion of the solid waste disposal facility shall be
within one mile by street of an interchange of an expressway; and
         (y)   The applicant shall provide a professional analysis of the
expected impacts of the facility on air quality, ground water quality and
surface water quality and expected health hazards to humans.
      (48)   Stable, non-household:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: four acres; and
         (b)   Any horse barn, corral, fenced-in area or stable shall be a
minimum of 75 feet from any lot line and 150 feet from any adjacent existing
dwelling.
      (49)   Swimming pool, non-household:
         (a)   The water surface shall be setback at least 50 feet from any
existing dwelling;
         (b)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
         (c)   Any water surface within 100 feet of an existing dwelling shall
be separated from the dwelling by evergreen screening meeting the requirements
of §
155.152 of this chapter; and
         (d)   The water surface shall be surrounded by a secure, well-
maintained fence at least six feet in height.
      (50)   Target range:
         (a)   All target ranges shall have a barrier behind the target area
which is of sufficient height and thickness to adequately protect the public
safety. This barrier shall be made of earth for a firearms range;
         (b)   A firearms target range shall comply with National Rifle
Association standards and other applicable federal, state and local
regulations;
         (c)   A firearms target range shall be located a minimum of 250 feet
from the lot line of any existing residential use or undeveloped residentially
coned land, unless within a completely enclosed sound-resistant building; and
         (d)   An outdoor firearms range shall be fenced and be properly
posted.
      (51)   Theater, outdoor:
         (a)   Shall be on a lot abutting an arterial street or collector
street (as defined on the Official Street Classification Map);
         (b)   Shall have a lot area of at least eight acres;
         (c)   The movie screen shall be situated so that its face is not
visible from a public arterial or collector street;
         (d)   The movie screen and any building shall be located at least 100
feet from any dwelling;
         (e)   A playground and snack shop are permitted as accessory uses;
         (f)   Pornographic, obscene or sexually explicit films shall not be
shown; and
         (g)   An outdoor theater for musical shows and similar events is
permitted without additional regulation within a publicly-owned recreation
area.
      (52)   Townhouses and garden apartments:
         (a)   Maximum number of dwelling units within any building or within
attached buildings: 16 for any building, including garden apartments, eight for
any other building(s);
         (b)   Maximum density: the total lot area of the “tract” (as defined
in §
155.008 of this chapter (see also definition of “lot area”)), after the
deletion of any right-of-way required to be dedicated for abutting streets,
shall be divided by 5,500 square feet per dwelling unit to determine the
maximum permitted number of dwelling units within the tract. Rights-of-way of
proposed public or private streets within the tract shall not be deleted from
the lot area for the purposes of determining maximum density. The permitted
dwelling units may be placed anywhere within the tract; provided that, all
other requirements of this chapter are met;
         (c)   Variety in design: developments of more than 50 dwelling units
should include a variety of complimentary designs and colors between buildings
or clusters of buildings to avoid extreme repetition. Extreme design and color
variations on different parts of the same building are discouraged. Variation
in roof lines of structures is strongly encouraged;
         (d)   Changes in facade: for every attached grouping of townhouses, a
minimum of two changes in the front wall plane shall be provided. Such change
shall involve a minimum variation or offset of four feet. This requirement may
be met by differing setbacks between an attached garage and a dwelling, or
differing setbacks among different dwellings or differing setbacks along the
front of a dwelling, setback further than attached private garage structures;
         (e)   Buffer yard: a 20-foot wide buffer yard with screening shall be
required, as described in §
155.137(D) of this chapter, between any townhouse or garden apartment and any
abutting existing single- family detached dwelling that is within 150 feet of
the proposed garden apartment or townhouse building. The buffer yard shall be
the responsibility of the developer of the townhouses or garden apartments;
         (f)   Accessory uses and structures,
            1.   See §
155.137 of this chapter for regulations on specific accessory uses. A five-foot
minimum setback is required for all permitted accessory uses or structures,
except:
               a.   A one-foot setback is required along the shared lot line of
attached buildings;
               b.   Where a larger setback is required by division (A)(52)(h)
below; and
               c.   A 25-foot wide minimum setback shall be maintained abutting
the existing right-of-way of any street.
            2.   To avoid incompatible structures in a higher density
environment, townhouse developers are strongly encouraged to establish deed
restrictions or homeowner association regulations controlling the general types
and materials of attached decks, fences and accessory structures that may be
added or constructed in the future.
         (g)   Maximum building length: 160 feet;
         (h)   Building setback and separation:
            1.   Minimum setback for townhouse and garden apartment buildings
and their permitted accessory structures: 50 feet from all exterior lot lines
and all existing street rights-of-way exterior to the tract, except:
               a.   The minimum setback shall be 75 feet for principal
buildings from a lot line of an existing single-family detached dwelling; and
               b.   The minimum setback shall be 25 feet for principal and
accessory buildings from a private street cartway or the existing right-of-way
of a street constructed within the tract.
            2.   Separation: each principal building shall be separated by a
minimum of 20 feet from any other principal building.
         (i)   Minimum width of townhouses: each townhouse dwelling unit shall
have a minimum width of 18 feet, except the minimum width shall be 26 feet for
any townhouse with two or more off-street parking spaces located in the
required front yard of a building or that has garage door(s) for two or more
motor vehicles facing onto the front of the townhouse lot;
         (j)   Minimum private area.
            1.   For each townhouse, there shall be a yard, balcony, patio or
other outdoor area other than a driveway immediately adjacent to the front,
back or side of each dwelling of not less than 200 square feet for the
exclusive use of the occupants of that dwelling.
            2.   If townhouses are subdivided into individual lots, the minimum
lot area shall be the building footprint, plus this 200 square feet.
            3.   Design measures shall be used to seek an appropriate level of
privacy in any rear yards. Such measures might include landscaped screening,
compatible fencing or earthen berming. The intent is to avoid the placement of
incompatible fencing by individual lot owners in the future.
            4.   Storage: if the maintenance of grass yards in front of or
behind a townhouse would be the responsibility of an individual homeowner, a
storage area suitable for storing lawn maintenance equipment shall be provided
with appropriate outside access.
         (k)   Construction of private streets: see §
155.150 of this chapter;
         (l)   Architectural renderings: preliminary architectural renderings,
models or photos are requested for any garden apartment or townhouse
development of more than 25 units;
         (m)   Preservation of natural buffers: see §
155.152(D)(3)(c) of this chapter;
         (n)   Garages: it is strongly recommended that all townhouses, be
designed so that garages and/or carports are not an overly prominent part of
the view from public streets. For this reason, parking courts, common garage or
carport structures or garages at the rear of dwellings are encouraged instead
of individual garages opening onto the front of the building, especially for
narrow townhouse units;
         (o)   Mailboxes: any mailboxes provided within the future street
right-of-way shall be clustered together in an orderly and attractive
arrangement or structure. Individual freestanding mailboxes of non-coordinated
types at the curbside are specifically discouraged;
         (p)   Trash bins: for any garden apartment or rental townhouse
development, common trash receptacles shall be provided in locations that are
convenient for residents and for collection. Screening is required by §
155.181 of this chapter;
         (q)   Access: vehicular access points onto all arterial and collector
streets shall be minimized to the lowest reasonable number. No townhouse
dwelling within a tract of five or more dwelling units shall have its own
driveway entering onto an arterial or collector street;
         (r)   Minimum tract width and depth: 150 feet each; and
         (s)   Paved area setback: all off-street parking spaces, except spaces
on driveways immediately in front of carport or garage entrance, shall be
setback a minimum of ten feet from any dwelling.
      (53)   Veterinarian office (includes animal hospital):
         (a)   A minimum lot size of at least one and one-half acres shall be
required for those animal hospitals treating small animals (such as cats, dogs,
birds or snakes). A minimum lot size of at least three acres shall be required
for those offices routinely treating large animals (such as cattle, horses or
pigs);
         (b)   Any structure in which animals are treated or housed shall be a
minimum of 100 feet from any residentially zoned undeveloped lot or any lot
line of a primarily residential use. Buildings should be adequately
soundproofed so that sounds generated within the buildings cannot be perceived
within any adjacent dwellings;
         (c)   Outdoor animal runs may be provided for small animals for use
between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.; provided, the runs are at least 150 feet from
any existing dwelling and provided that the runs for dogs are separated from
each other by visual barriers a minimum of four feet in height, to minimize dog
barking; and
         (d)   A commercial kennel shall only be an accessory and not a
principal use, unless a kennel is permitted in that district and the applicable
requirements are met.
      (54)   Warehouse or wholesale sales:
         (a)   See off-street loading requirements in §
155.199 of this chapter;
         (b)   No storage of trash, garbage, refuse, highly explosive or
flammable materials, hazardous or highly toxic substances, animals, animal
carcasses or similar items shall be permitted;
         (c)   Uses that would involve the entrance to the use of an average of
more than 200 tractor-trailers per weekday shall be required to meet the
additional standards in this section for a truck terminal; and
         (d)   See requirements in §
155.137 of this chapter for “outdoor storage or display”.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 402)
§ 155.137 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   General. Accessory buildings, structures or uses that are clearly
customary and incidental to a permitted by right, special exception or
conditional use are permitted by right, except as is provided for in this
chapter.
   (B)   Accessory setbacks. The accessory setback requirements of the
applicable district shall apply to every accessory building, structure or use
unless a standard that is clearly meant to be more restrictive or less
restrictive is specifically stated in this section for a particular accessory
use.
   (C)   Front yard setback. No accessory structure, use or building shall be
permitted in a required front yard in any district, unless specifically
permitted by this chapter. See the list of “essential services” in §
155.070 of this chapter.
   (D)   Special standards. Each accessory use shall comply with all of the
following standards listed for that use:
      (1)   Accessory apartment, one within an existing single-family detached
dwelling or within an existing single-family semi-detached dwelling (half of a
twin dwelling):
         (a)   Any on-lot septic system shall be recertified if the sewage
flows will increase;
         (b)   The building shall maintain the appearance of a single-family
detached dwelling or a single-family semi-detached dwelling with a single front
entrance. Additional entrances may be placed on the side or rear of the
structure. The dwelling units may internally share the single front entrance;
         (c)   The conversion shall not be permitted if it would require the
placement of an exterior stairway on the front of the building or would require
the placement of four or more off-street parking spaces in the required front
yard;
         (d)   Separate cooking and sanitary facilities shall be provided for
each dwelling unit;
         (e)   Any off-street parking lot including four or more spaces shall
be buffered from abutting dwellings by evergreen screening meeting the
requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter;
         (f)   One of the dwelling units shall be owner-occupied for a minimum
period of 12 months following the conversion;
         (g)   The dwelling as it pre-exists shall have a total minimum floor
area of 1,500 square feet and the principal dwelling unit shall retain a
minimum floor area of 800 square feet;
         (h)   A maximum of two total dwelling units are permitted; and
         (i)   Any off-street parking area of four or more spaces shall have
evergreen screening meeting the requirements of §
155.153(D) of this chapter between the parking spaces and any abutting
dwelling.
      (2)   Amateur radio antenna:
         (a)   Height. No amateur radio antenna, including its supporting
structure, shall have a total height above the average surrounding ground level
of greater than 65 feet in a residential district or 75 feet in any other
district; and
         (b)   Anchoring. Any amateur radio antenna shall be properly anchored
to resist high winds.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast use:
         (a)   No more than four rental units shall be provided and no more
than four persons may occupy one rental unit;
         (b)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each rental
unit. The off-street parking spaces for the bed and breakfast shall be located
either to the rear of the principal building or screened from the street and
abutting dwellings by evergreen screening;
         (c)   At least one bathroom shall be provided for use by guests;
         (d)   There shall not be any signs, show windows or any type of
display or advertising visible from outside the premises, except for a single
non-illuminated sign with a maximum sign area of four square feet on each of
two sides and with a maximum height of eight feet;
         (e)   The use shall have a residential appearance and character;
         (f)   The use shall be operated by permanent residents of the lot;
         (g)   There shall not be separate cooking facilities in any guest
room. Food shall only be served to guests who are staying overnight;
         (h)   The maximum, uninterrupted length of stay at a bed and breakfast
shall be 14 days;
         (i)   The use of any amenities provided by the bed and breakfast, such
as swimming pool or tennis court, shall be restricted in use to the clientele
and permanent residents of the establishment and their occasional invited
guests; and
         (j)   Any on-lot septic system shall be recertified as being adequate,
in accordance with State regulations.
      (4)   Day care center as accessory use to a residential use:
         (a)   The following shall be the maximum number of children under age
15 that may be cared for in any dwelling unit:
            1.   In a single-family detached or single-family semi-detached
(twin) dwelling; maximum of six children who are not related to a permanent
resident of the dwelling by blood, marriage, adoption or formal foster
relationship; provided that, such non-related children shall only be permitted
if the total of such non-related children, plus related children who are
present in the dwelling is not greater than a total of eight children; and
            2.   In any dwelling unit other than a single-family detached or
single-family semi- detached dwelling: maximum of two children, beyond those
children who are related to a permanent resident of the dwelling by blood,
marriage, adoption or formal foster relationship.
         (b)   The dwelling shall retain a residential appearance with no
change to the exterior of the dwelling to accommodate the use, other than
cosmetic improvements;
         (c)   Any day care center involving seven or more children shall be
considered a principal use and meet the standards of §
155.136(B) of this chapter for such use, if permitted; and
         (d)   The use shall be actively operated by a permanent resident of
the dwelling.
      (5)   Fences and walls:
         (a)   Fences and walls are permitted by right in all districts;
         (b)   Sight distance: no fence, wall or hedge shall obstruct the sight
distance requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter, nor obstruct safe sight distance within an alley;
         (c)   Fences:
            1.   Any fence located in the required front yard of a lot in a
residential district shall have a minimum ratio of three to one (3:1) of open
to structural areas, shall not exceed four feet in height and shall be
constructed entirely of wood (and any required fasteners and any wire mesh
attached on the inside of the fence);
            2.   A fence shall not be required to comply with minimum setbacks
for accessory structures;
            3.   A fence located in a residential district in a location other
than a required front yard shall have a maximum height of six feet; except
that, a maximum of height of ten feet is permitted to enclose a tennis or
racquet sport court provided that such fence is not within a required setback
area for an accessory structure;
            4.   No fence shall be built within five feet of the existing
right-of-way of a street. A fence shall be setback a minimum of one foot from a
lot line;
            5.   No fence shall be located within the paved area setback
required under §
155.1197 of this chapter, nor within an easement in such a way that it would
prevent use of the easement for its intended purpose; and
            6.   Any fence that has one side that is smoother and/or more
finished than a second side shall place that smoother and/or more finished side
so that it faces away from the area that is enclosed, unless the fence abuts a
business use.
         (d)   Walls:
            1.   Engineered retaining walls necessary to hold back slopes are
exempted from setback regulations and the regulations of this section, and are
permitted by right as needed in all districts;
            2.   No wall of greater than three feet shall be located in the
required front yard in a residential district, except as a backing for a
permitted sign at an entrance to a development;
            3.   A wall in a residential district outside of a required front
yard shall have a maximum height of three feet if it is within the minimum
accessory structure setback and six feet if it is not; and
            4.   Walls that are attached to a building shall be regulated as a
part of that building, and the regulations of this section shall not apply.
         (e)   Gates: all fences, walls or continuous hedges more than four
feet in height shall be equipped with gates or other suitable passageways at
intervals of not more than 250 feet.
      (6)   Garage sale:
         (a)   See definition in §
155.008 of this chapter. A garage sale shall not include wholesale sales, nor
sale of new merchandise of a type typically found in retail stores;
         (b)   No garage sales shall be held on a lot during more than four
days total in any three consecutive months; and
         (c)   The use shall be clearly accessory to the principal use.
      (7)   Home occupation:
         (a)   The home occupation shall be conducted within buildings;
         (b)   The home occupation may be conducted within a principal or
accessory residential building; provided that, the total area used for a home
occupation shall not exceed 25% of the total floor area of the principal
dwelling unit;
         (c)   There shall be no outside storage of materials, products or
equipment;
         (d)   There shall be no use of show windows or any type of display or
advertising visible from outside the premises, except for a single non-
illuminated sign no larger than two square feet in size on each of two sides,
and with a maximum height of eight feet;
         (e)   Parking of trucks: the regulations of §
155.198 of this chapter shall apply. Servicing of the use by trucks other than
by U.S. Postal Service vehicles, pick-up trucks or vans shall only occur a
maximum of twice per day. The use shall not require the parking of more than
three trucks of any type on the lot or on adjacent streets at any period of
time;
         (f)   The use shall not be serviced by tractor-trailer trucks;
         (g)   Uses permitted as a home occupation include, but are not limited
to, art studio, barber shop, beauty shop, office, custom sewing or musical
instruction;
         (h)   The following uses shall not be permitted as a home occupation:
animal hospital; stable; kennel; funeral parlor; retail store; restaurant; or
truck terminal;
         (i)   No machinery or equipment shall be permitted that produces
noise, noxious odor, vibration, light or electrical interference beyond the
boundary of the property;
         (j)   The Zoning Hearing Board may require such conditions as it deems
reasonable and necessary to limit potential adverse effects of a particular
use;
         (k)   Parking and loading: adequate space for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter. If such parking cannot be accommodated using a
driveway, such areas shall be located to the rear of the lot, if possible;
         (l)   Building appearance: the exterior of the building and the lot
shall not be changed in such a way as to decrease its residential appearance,
except for permitted parking spaces and the permitted sign;
         (m)   No use shall be permitted that would generate noise in excess of
what is typical in a residential neighborhood;
         (n)   See the definition of “home occupation” in §
155.008 of this chapter;
         (o)   Number of employees: a total maximum of one person shall work on
the lot who is not a permanent resident of the dwelling, except:
            1.   A haircutting/hairstyling use shall only be conducted by a
total of one person, who shall be a permanent resident of the dwelling; and
            2.   An office of a single medical doctor or a single dentist may
include a maximum of five employees who are not permanent residents of the
dwelling if such use will be adjacent to an arterial street.
         (p)   Hours: no home occupation shall be conducted in a way that is
perceptible from beyond the lot line between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:30
a.m.;
         (q)   Hazardous substances: the use shall not involve the storage or
use of hazardous, toxic, flammable or explosive substances, other than types
and amounts commonly found in a dwelling;
         (r)   Traffic: the use shall not reasonably be expected to involve the
arrival on the lot for business purposes of more than ten vehicles in any
average day, other than the offices of a physician or dentist along an arterial
street; and
         (s)   Any instruction or tutoring shall be limited to a maximum of
four pupils being on the property at any one time.
      (8)   Home office:
         (a)   Shall meet all of the requirements for a home occupation; except
that, the use shall be permitted by right and not a special exception; and,
except that, any requirements of a home office that are more strict than for a
home occupation shall apply;
         (b)   Shall not involve any parking or use of trucks on the lot or on
the street other than routine permitted deliveries;
         (c)   Traffic: shall not reasonably be expected to involve the arrival
on the lot for business purposes of more than five vehicles in any average day;
         (d)   Shall meet the definition in §
155.008 of this chapter for a “home office”;
         (e)   Only persons who are permanent residents of the dwelling shall
work on the premises; and
         (f)   Shall not involve any sign identifying the business.
      (9)   Keeping of pets. (Note: this does not apply to “animal husbandry”
which is regulated by §
155.136 of this chapter, nor to keeping of animals permitted as an accessory
use under the definition of “crop farming” in §
155.008 of this chapter.)
         (a)   This is a permitted by right accessory use in all districts.
         (b)   No use shall involve the keeping of animals or fowl in such a
manner or of such types of animals that it creates a serious nuisance
(including noise or odor), a health hazard or a public safety hazard. The owner
of the animals shall be responsible for collecting and properly disposing of
all fecal matter from pets.
         (c)   The total number of dogs and cats shall be a combined maximum of
five, unless the animals would be regularly kept at least 200 feet from the
nearest dwelling. No numerical restriction shall apply to cats and dogs of less
than six months age.
         (d)   Pigeons, chickens, ducks, geese and similar fowl shall only be
kept on lots of larger than two acres. A maximum of 12 such birds shall be
permitted under this section. Such birds shall be kept a minimum of 25 feet
from any lot line and 75 feet from any dwelling other than that of the owner of
the animals.
         (e)   In any zoning district it is permitted to maintain up to two
horses on a lot of two acres or more. Any horse barn, corral, fenced-in area or
stable shall be a minimum of 75 feet from any lot line and 150 feet from any
existing dwelling other than that of the owner of the horses.
         (f)   Keeping of more than the specified number of cats or dogs shall
be considered a kennel.
         (g)   Keeping of more than the specified number of pigeons or fowl
shall be considered animal husbandry.
         (h)   Keeping of more than the specified number of horses shall be
considered a stable.
         (i)   Only those pets that are domesticated and are compatible with a
residential character shall be permitted as “keeping of pets”. Examples of
permitted pets include dogs, cats, rabbits, gerbils and fish, but do not
include bears, goats, cows, venomous snakes, pigs or sheep.
         (j)   Any area used for the keeping of bees shall be setback a minimum
of 150 feet from all lot lines.
         (k)   Exotic animals.
            1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (D)(9)(k), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
               ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Those persons empowered by the borough
to implement and enforce this chapter.
               EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any non-human vertebrate or invertebrate species
of the animal kingdom which is wild, fierce, dangerous, noxious or naturally
inclined to do harm, however domesticated, including, but not limited to, the
following:
                  i.   Class Mammalia:
                     (A)   Order Artiodactyla (hippopotamuses, giraffes,
camels, deer, not cattle or swine or sheep or goats);
                     (B)   Order Carnivora:
                        (1)   Family Felidae (lions, tigers, cougars, leopards,
ocelots, servals, not domestic cats);
                        (2)   Family Canidae (wolves, coyotes, foxes, jackals,
not domestic dogs);
                        (3)   Family Ursidae (all bears);
                        (4)   Family Mustelidae (weasels, skunks, martins,
minks, excluding domesticated ferrets, in accordance herewith);
                        (5)   Family Procyonidae (raccoons, coatis);
                        (6)   Family Hyaenidae (hyenas); and
                        (7)   Family Viverridae (civets, genets, mongooses).
                     (C)   Order Edentatia (anteaters, armadillos, sloths);
                     (D)   Order Marsupialia (opossums, kangaroos, wallabies,
not sugar gliders);
                     (E)   Order Perissodactyla (rhinoceroses, tapirs, not
horses or donkeys or mules);
                     (F)   Order Primates (lemurs, monkeys, chimpanzees,
gorillas);
                     (G)   Order Proboscidea (elephants);
                     (H)   Order Rodentia (squirrels, beavers, porcupines, not
guinea pigs, or rats or mice, or gerbils or hamsters);
                     ii.   Class Reptilia:
                     (A)   Order Squamata:
                        (1)   Family Varanidae (only water monitors and
crocodile monitors);
                        (2)   Family Iguanidae (only green iguanas and rock
iguanas);
                        (3)   Family Boidae (all species whose adult length has
the potential to exceed eight feet in length);
                        (4)   Family Colubridae (only boomslangs and African
twig snakes);
                        (5)   Family Elapidae (such as coral snakes, cobras,
mambas and the like), all species;
                        (6)   Family Nactricidae (only keelback snakes); and
                        (7)   Family Viperidae (such as copperheads,
cottonmouths, rattlesnakes and the like), all species.
                     (B)   Order Crocodilia (such as crocodiles, alligators,
caimans, gavials and the like), all species.
               PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, organization,
trade or professional association, firm, limited liability company joint
venture, association, trust, estate or any other legal entity and any officer,
member, shareholder, director, employee, agent or representative thereof.
               POSSESSOR. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors,
brings into the state, has in one’s possession, acts as a custodian or has
custody or control of a exotic animal.
            2.   Keeping, breeding, selling and exchanging of exotic animals
prohibited.
               a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep,
harbor, breed, bring into the borough, have in one’s possession, act as
custodian, or have custody or control of an exotic animal, except in compliance
with this act.
               b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, exchange,
adopt or transfer to the wild any exotic animal, subject to the exemptions set
forth in division (D)(9)(k)3. below.
               c.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in conduct
which places or may place another person in danger of an attack by an exotic
animal.
            3.   Exemptions.
               a.   The provisions of this act shall not apply to:
                  i.   Any holder of a personal possession permit pursuant to
this chapter;
                  ii.   Any duly incorporated non-profit animal protection
organizations housing an exotic animal at the written request of the animal
control authority;
                  iii.   Any animal control or law enforcement agencies or
officers acting under the authority of this act;
                  iv.   Any licensed veterinary hospitals or clinics;
                  v.   Any licensed wildlife sanctuary;
                  vi.   Any licensed or accredited research or medical
institution;
                  vii.   Any licensed or accredited educational institution;
                  viii.   Any licensed circus or amusement show; or
                  ix.   Any licensed person temporarily transporting exotic
animals through the borough if the transit time is not more than 96 hours,
which provides proper cages, fences and other protective devices adequate to
prevent such animal from escaping or injuring the public, or causing a health
hazard due to fecal matter, or otherwise.
               b.   Domesticated ferrets are permitted as house pets; provided
that, the following requirements are met.
                  i.   Ferrets must be de-scented.
                  ii.   Ferrets must be spayed or neutered.
                  iii.   Ferrets are to be vaccinated, except as otherwise
provided herein. Vaccination documents or a statement from a licensed
veterinarian advising against vaccination shall be furnished upon request.
                  iv.   No breeding of ferrets is permitted.
                  v.   Ferrets are not to be at large when outdoors.
               c.   Vietnamese potbellied pigs are permitted as house pets;
provided that, the following requirements are met.
                  i.   The pet owner is to obtain a document from a licensed
veterinarian or a nationally recognized registry certifying that the pet is a
Vietnamese potbellied pig.
                  ii.   No more than two Vietnamese potbellied pigs are
permitted and shall be primarily indoor pets.
                  iii.   Vietnamese potbellied pigs are to be spayed or
neutered.
                  iv.   No breeding of Vietnamese potbellied pigs is permitted.
                  v.   Vietnamese potbellied pigs are not to be at large when
outdoors.
                  vi.   Vietnamese potbellied pigs are to be vaccinated, except
as otherwise provided herein. Vaccination documents or a statement from a
licensed veterinarian advising against vaccination shall be furnished upon
request.
            4.   Personal possession permit required for possessor.
               a.   A person may obtain a personal possession permit for an
exotic animal only if the following are met.
                  i.   The person was in legal possession of an exotic animal
prior to the effective date of this act and is the legal possessor of the
exotic animal.
                  ii.   The person applies for and is granted a personal
possession permit as set forth under this section for each such exotic animal
in the person’s possession by the date which is six months from the effective
date of this chapter.
               b.   Persons who meet the requirements set forth in division (B)
(9)(k)4.a. above shall annually obtain a personal possession permit from and
after the effective date of this chapter, no new exotic animal shall be brought
into possession under authority of a personal possession permit.
               c.   An applicant shall file an application to receive a
personal possession permit with the animal control authority on forms provided
by the animal control authority. The application shall include the following:
                  i.   A written statement which sets forth the following
information:
                     (A)   The name, address, telephone number and date of
birth of the applicant;
                     (B)   The description of each exotic animal the applicant
possesses, including the scientific name, name, sex, age, color, weight and any
distinguishing marks or coloration that would aid in the identification of such
animal;
                     (C)   A photograph of the exotic animal;
                     (D)   The exact location where the exotic animal is to be
kept;
                     (E)   The names, addresses and telephone number of the
person from whom the applicant obtained the exotic animal if known; and
                     (F)   The name, address and phone number of the
veterinarian providing veterinary care to the exotic animal and a certificate
of good health from the possessor’s veterinarian.
                  ii.   A certification in writing and notarized by a notary
public that:
                     (A)   The applicant is 18 years of age or older;
                     (B)   The applicant has not been convicted of or found
responsible for violating a local or state law prohibiting cruelty, neglect or
mistreatment of an animal;
                     (C)   The facility and the conditions in which the exotic
animal will be kept are in compliance with this act;
                     (D)   The applicant has regularly provided veterinary care
to the exotic animal when needed and will provide such care in the future; and
                     (E)   Proof that a licensed veterinarian has spayed or
neutered the exotic animal, or if no proof can be made, a statement that the
animal has been spayed or neutered as made by an examining physician. In the
alternative, if a licensed veterinarian has determined that the spay or neuter
procedure would endanger the well-being of the exotic animal, a statement of
such licensed veterinarian to that effect.
                  iii.   A plan for the quick and safe recapture of the exotic
animal if the exotic animal escapes and for the destruction of the exotic
animal if such recapture is not possible;
                  iv.   Proof of a policy for liability insurance in an amount
of not less than as set by the borough for each occurrence for liability
damages for destruction of or damage to property and death or bodily injury to
a person caused by the exotic animal. The possessor of an exotic animal shall
provide proof of such policy for liability insurance to the animal control
authority on an annual basis;
                  v.   Any additional information the animal control authority
may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this act; and
                  vi.   Fees for application, issuance and renewal of a
personal possession permit as established by the animal control authority in
order to recover the costs associated with the administration and enforcement
of this chapter. The fees collected under this division (D)(9)(k) may be used
only to administer and enforce this chapter.
               d.   A permit shall not be granted unless the animal control
authority finds that all of the requirements set forth in this division (D)(9)
(k) have been met.
               e.   The personal possession permit shall set forth all of the
following information:
                  i.   The name, address, phone number and date of birth of the
permit holder;
                  ii.   The address, if different than above, where the exotic
animal(s) will be kept;
                  iii.   The name, number, sex, species, age of the exotic
animal(s) and any distinguishing marks or coloration that would aid in the
identification of the animal;
                  iv.   The name, address and phone number of the veterinarian
who provides veterinary care to the exotic animal(s) named on the permit; and
                  v.   Any other relevant information the animal control
authority may deem necessary.
               f.   The animal control authority shall keep records of who is
carrying a valid permit. A permit holder shall notify the animal control
authority of any changes of the information stated on the permit, which shall
include the death of the exotic animal.
            5.   Care and treatment of exotic animals held under a personal
possession permit.
               a.   An exotic animal shall not be tethered, leashed, chained
outdoors or allowed to run at large.
               b.   An exotic animal shall not be mistreated, neglected,
abandoned or deprived of necessary food, water and sustenance.
               c.   A person transporting an exotic animal in a vehicle shall
keep the animal securely caged in the vehicle at all times.
               d.   The possessor shall contact the animal control authority, a
wildlife sanctuary or other organization maintained for the benefit of such
animals if the possessor can no longer care for the exotic animal prior to
euthanasia of the exotic animal.
            6.   Notification.
               a.   The possessor of an exotic animal shall have continuously
posted and displayed at each possible entrance onto the premises where an
exotic animal is kept a conspicuous sign, clearly legible and easily readable
by the public warning that there is an exotic animal on the premises. In
addition, the possessor shall conspicuously display a sign with a warning
symbol that informs children of the presence of an exotic animal.
               b.   If any exotic animal unintentionally escapes, the possessor
of the exotic animal shall immediately contact a law enforcement officer of the
borough where the possessor resides to report the escape or release. The
possessor is liable for all expenses associated with efforts to recapture the
animal.
            7.   Public contact. The permittee shall not bring an exotic animal
to any public property or a commercial retail establishment unless the
permittee is bringing the animal to a licensed veterinarian or a veterinarian
clinic.
            8.   Enforcement of article. The animal control authority, its
staff, its agents, local law enforcement agents or county sheriffs are
authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
            9.   Inspection. The possessor of an exotic animal, at all
reasonable times, shall allow the animal control authority, its staff, and its
agents to enter the premises where the animal is kept to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
            10.   Denial of personal possession permit; appeal.
               a.   If the animal control authority finds that an applicant for
an original or renewal of a personal possession permit does not meet the
requirements set forth herein the animal control authority shall deny the
applicant a personal possession permit and give the applicant written notice of
the denial and the reasons for the denial.
               b.   If the animal control authority finds that a person has not
complied with this chapter, the animal control authority may suspend or revoke
the personal possession permit and give the possessor written notice of the
suspension or revocation and the reasons for the suspension or revocation.
               c.   A person who is denied a personal possession permit, denied
a renewal of a personal possession permit, or who has had a permit suspended or
revoked may appeal the decision to the District Court for the municipality in
which the animal is located no later than the fifteenth day after the permit is
denied, suspended or revoked. An appeal from the District Court shall be to the
Court of Common Pleas of Northampton County, Pennsylvania.
            11.   Confiscation and disposition of exotic animals.
               a.   The animal control authority may immediately confiscate any
exotic animal if the animal is kept in contravention of this chapter. The
possessor is liable for the costs of confiscation, placement and care for the
exotic animal until the time of the return to the possessor or until the animal
has been relocated to an approved facility.
               b.   If an exotic animal is confiscated due to the animal being
kept in contravention of this chapter, the possessor must post a security bond
with the animal control authority in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment
of all reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and providing for
the animal, including, but not limited to, the estimated cost of feeding,
medical care and housing for a minimum of 30 days. The security bond or cash
shall not prevent the animal control authority from disposing of the animal at
the end of the 30 days unless the person claiming the animal posts an
additional security bond or cash with the animal control authority to secure
payment of all reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and
providing for the animal for an additional 30 days, and does so prior to the
expiration of the first 30-day period. The amount of the security bond or cash
shall be determined by the animal control authority and based on the current
rate to feed, provide medical care and house the animal.
               c.   If the possessor of a confiscated exotic animal cannot be
located or if a confiscated exotic animal remains unclaimed, the animal control
authority, at its discretion, may contact a licensed facility or individual and
allow the animal to be adopted by such facility or individual or may euthanize
the animal.
               d.   If the exotic animal cannot be taken up or recaptured
safely by the animal control authority or if proper and safe housing cannot be
found the animal control authority may immediately euthanize the animal.
               e.   An exotic animal may be returned to the possessor only if,
to the satisfaction of the animal control authority, the possessor has a
personal permit, has corrected the conditions resulting in the confiscation and
has paid the cost of placement and care of the animal while under the care and
control of the animal control authority.
            12.   Penalties. Whoever violates this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
            13.   Effective date.
               a.   Except as provided by this section, this division (D)(9)(k)
took effect on the date the ordinance is signed into law.
               b.   Not later than six months from the effective date of this
division (D)(9)(k), the animal control authority shall implement and administer
the prohibitions of the keeping of exotic animals under this chapter,
including, but not limited to, the creation of the personal possession permit
program established by this chapter, orders relating to applications for
personal possession permits and renewals, fees for permit and renewals and the
form and content of the application.
               c.   A person shall have until the date which is six months from
the effective date of this chapter to obtain a personal possession permit.
            14.   Powers and duties of Animal Control Authority. Any officer
whose duty it is to enforce this chapter or any officer investigating any
alleged violation of this chapter shall have the power and duty to:
               a.   Enforce all provisions of this chapter relating to exotic
animals and arrest any person who has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter while in pursuit of that person immediately following the violation;
               b.   Go upon any land or water outside of buildings, posted or
otherwise, in the performance of the officer’s duty;
               c.   Secure, execute and serve all warrants and subpoenas for
suspected violations of this chapter;
               d.   Carry firearms or other weapons, concealed or otherwise, in
the performance of the officer’s duties;
               e.   Purchase and resell exotic animals or any part thereof, for
the purpose of securing evidence;
               f.   Stop and inspect, examine or search, at any time or place,
any person or means of transportation or its attachment or occupants, or any
clothing worn by any person, or any bag, clothing or container within the
borough upon reasonable suspicion of a violation of this division (D)(9)(k) and
upon presentation of official identification and statement regarding the
purpose of the inspection or search;
               g.   When making an arrest or an investigation or when found in
the execution of a search warrant, seize and take possession of any exotic
animals held in possession and any equipment or evidence related to the
possession of such exotic animals within the borough;
               h.   Demand and secure assistance when the officer deems it
necessary;
               i.   Demand and secure identification from any person; and
               j.   Require the holder of any personal possession permit
required by this chapter to sign the holder’s name on a separate piece of paper
in the presence of the requesting officer.
      (10)   Leaf composting:
         (a)   Shall be limited to the composting of biodegradable vegetative
material, including grass clippings, trees, shrubs, leaves and vegetable waste;
         (b)   Shall be conducted in such a way that a fire, rodent or disease-
carrying insect hazard is not created; and
         (c)   Composting areas of greater than one acre shall be setback 50
feet from all lot lines. Areas of grass clippings composting of less than one
acre shall be setback a minimum of 25 feet from any adjacent dwelling.
      (11)   Outdoor storage and display, commercial or industrial (as a
principal or accessory use):
         (a)   Location: shall not occupy any part of the existing or future
street right-of-way, area intended or designed for pedestrian use, required
parking area, or part of the required paved area setback; (See §
155.212(G) of this chapter.)
         (b)   No outside industrial storage shall be located on land with an
average slope in excess of 15%;
         (c)   Screening: see §
155.152(D) of this chapter;
         (d)   Tires: if more than 250 tires are stored on a lot, each stack
shall be a maximum of 20 feet high and cover a maximum of 400 square feet. Each
stack shall be separated from other stacks by a minimum of 50 feet; and
         (e)   No outside commercial or industrial storage or display shall be
permitted in a required front yard in the LI District.
      (12)   Recreational vehicle, storage of one or two: a maximum of two
uninhabited recreational vehicles in transportable condition may be stored on a
lot within the following limitations:
         (a)   A recreational vehicle of longer than 35 feet shall not be
stored for greater than three days in any seven-day period within a required
front yard;
         (b)   A vehicle stored on the lot of a single-family detached house
shall be setback a minimum of three feet from the lot line of an abutting
single-family detached house;
         (c)   Any recreational vehicle that is required to be registered or
licensed under state law to be operated and is not registered or licensed shall
be kept out of view from any public street or existing dwelling (other than
that of the owner); and
         (d)   One recreational vehicle may be inhabited as a temporary
accessory residence to a single- family detached dwelling for a period of seven
days, once in a calendar year.
      (13)   Residential accessory structure (see definition in § 155.008 of
this chapter):
         (a)   Accessory structures and uses (other than fences) shall not be
within the required accessory use setback as stated in §§
155.065 through
155.072 of this chapter, unless specifically exempted by this chapter;
         (b)   Accessory buildings on a lot with a lot area of one acre or less
in a residential district shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Maximum height: 25 feet;
            2.   Maximum total floor area of all accessory buildings: 1,000
square feet; and
            3.   Maximum of two accessory buildings per lot.
         (c)   Any skateboard ramp shall be clearly intended for use by
permanent residents of the dwelling and their occasional guests. Any such
skateboard ramp shall be a maximum of three feet in height and five feet in
length and be moved inside when not in use.
      (14)   Retail sales of agricultural products produced locally:
         (a)   The use shall be an accessory use incidental to a crop farming
or animal husbandry use;
         (b)   The only retail sales shall be of agricultural products. A
minimum of 75% of the products sold shall have been grown by the operator of
the retail sales use, or a member of his or her immediate family or a leasee of
their land;
         (c)   Parking shall be provided in compliance with the provisions of
§§
155.195 through
155.199 of this chapter;
         (d)   All buildings erected for this use that are not clearly
permanent in nature shall be disassembled during seasons when products are not
offered for sale;
         (e)   Signs: see §
155.218 of this chapter;
         (f)   No stand shall be located closer than 25 feet from any lot line;
         (g)   A maximum of 2,000 square feet of building floor area may be
used for such use; and
         (h)   The use may occur as an accessory use within an existing
dwelling or barn.
      (15)   Satellite antennas:
         (a)   Intent: to provide for reception of satellite communications,
while assuring that such uses will not detract from the character of any area
or adversely affect property values. This section recognizes that if not
properly installed, a satellite antenna may create a threat to the safety of
persons and property. This section recognizes that if properly screened and
sited, satellite antennas may avoid visual blight in the immediate area. This
section also recognizes that satellite antenna have the potential of being
substantially more of a nuisance and a visual blight than most other forms of
electronic antenna. The reasons for this special concern about satellite
antenna include the usual solidness of the structure (which makes it more
visible), the occasional desire to place a satellite antenna in front yards and
the fronts of roofs and the overall size of satellite antenna compared to most
other non-commercial antenna;
         (b)   Satellite antenna shall be a permitted by right accessory use in
all districts for all uses subject to the restrictions in this division (D)
(15);
         (c)   Location and number:
            1.   In a residential district, a satellite antenna shall neither
be located between a residential use and the front lot line nor on a corner lot
between a residential line and any public street (other than an alley);
            2.   A satellite antenna shall comply with the setback requirements
of an accessory use in all districts;
            3.   A satellite antenna may be placed on the roof of a structure
in a residential district only if such antenna would not be visible from a
public street. An antenna may be roof-mounted in any other district, without
limitations on visibility.
            4.   A maximum of one satellite antenna shall be permitted on any
lot in a residential district.
         (d)   Size and height:
            1.   A satellite antenna shall have a maximum diameter of:
               a.   Eleven feet in a residential district;
               b.   Fifteen feet in a non-residential district if ground-
mounted; and
               c.   Eleven feet in a non-residential district if not ground-
mounted.
            2.   A ground-mounted satellite antenna shall have a maximum
possible height of 15 feet above the average ground level in a residential
district; and
            3.   In a non-residential district, a satellite antenna shall have
a maximum height of 25 feet above the average ground level, if the antenna is
ground-mounted or 15 feet above the highest point of a roof if roof-mounted.
         (e)   Screening: any satellite antenna that is ground-mounted shall be
screened by appropriate evergreen plantings between the antenna and any public
street, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer
that screening in such a location would make it impossible to receive the
electronic signals;
         (f)   Colors: earth tones are strongly encouraged;
         (g)   Large lot exemption: if a satellite antenna is to be located a
minimum of 200 feet from all exterior lot lines, the requirements of this
section shall not be binding, other than the height requirements;
         (h)   Mobile stands: satellite antenna on mobile stands are
prohibited, except as may be initially needed to determine the best location
for an antenna;
         (i)   Transmission: no satellite antenna provided for under this
section shall be used for the transmission of commercial electronic signals
within a residential district; and
         (j)   Wind resistance: any satellite antenna shall be properly secured
so that it will be resistant to high winds.
      (16)   Swimming pool: household (referred hereafter as “pool”):
         (a)   The pool shall not involve any commercial use;
         (b)   Permit:
            1.   Before any work is commenced on the construction of a pool or
any significant alteration or addition to a pool, an applicant shall apply for
a construction permit by submitting the following to the Zoning Officer:
               a.   A site plan showing building locations and the proposed
pool location, distances to lot lines in the vicinity of the proposed pool and
the location of wells, septic systems and proposed fences or enclosures around
the pool;
               b.   Construction information sufficient to show compliance with
the pool provisions of this chapter; and
               c.   Required fees, based upon the borough fee schedule for
building permits.
            2.   No work shall be commenced until a written permit is issued.
         (c)   Enclosure around in-ground pools:
            1.   An in-ground pool and any pool deck shall be completely
surrounded by a fence, wall or similar enclosure not less than four feet in
height, which shall be so constructed as to have no openings, holes or gaps
larger than six inches in any dimension, other than the vertical spaces within
a picket fence. A building may form part of such enclosure. All gates or door
openings through such enclosure shall be self-closing and include a self-
latching device on. the pool side for keeping the gate or door securely closed
at all times when not in use. A door of a building which forms a part of the
enclosure need not be self-latching and self-closing;
            2.   The requirements of this division (D)(16)(c) dealing with
enclosures shall apply to both existing and new pools; and
            3.   Any existing pool that does not comply with these enclosure
requirements shall be made conforming within 90 days of the adoption of this
chapter.
         (d)   Enclosure around above ground pool:
            1.   Any above ground pool shall include an enclosure a minimum of
four feet high above the surrounding average ground level. This enclosure may
include the walls of the pool itself. Such pools shall be equipped with an
access ladder that can be raised and locked in a position so that it is a
minimum of four feet above the surrounding ground level or otherwise completely
inaccessible to children when the pool is unattended;
            2.   The requirements of this division (D)(16)(d) dealing with
enclosures shall apply to both existing and new pools; and
            3.   Any existing pool that does not comply with these enclosure
requirements shall be made conforming within 90 days of the adoption of this
chapter.
         (e)   Location: a pool and any deck, patio or shelter that is elevated
above the average surrounding ground level shall meet the applicable setback
requirement for an accessory building. Where practical, a pool shall be located
to the rear of a building. A pool is not permitted within a required front
yard;
         (f)   Drainage:
            1.   A proper method shall be provided for drainage of the water
from the pool that will not overload or flood any:
               a.   On-lot septic system; or
               b.   Portion of a building or property not owned by the owner of
the pool.
            2.   A pool shall not be located so as to:
               a.   Interfere with the operation of a well or on-lot septic
system; or
               b.   Threaten to cause a septic system to discharge into the
pool or onto the adjacent area around the pool.
         (g)   Enforcement: the borough shall enforce the requirements of this
section when a written complaint is made to the Zoning Officer or when the
Zoning Officer becomes aware of a violation. However, it is the responsibility
of each landowner to obtain any required permits and to ensure compliance with
this section. The borough does not assume responsibility for guaranteeing to
the public that all new and existing pools fully comply with these provisions;
         (h)   Construction: all new pools shall comply with the following
requirements.
            1.   All pools shall include an impervious liner with easily
cleaned surfaces. A pool shall not include a sand or dirt bottom that is not
covered by such liner.
            2.   All pool walls and bottoms shall be able to withstand water
pressure from within the pool and any pressure from earth or ground water
outside of the pool when the pool is empty.
            3.   A minimum of one set of steps, ladders, step holds or hand
holds is required. The coping of the edge of the pool may meet this requirement
is such coping is a maximum of eight inches above the water surface.
            4.   Any inlet from a central water system shall be above the
overflow level of the pool. If the water for a pool is supplied by a private
water system, there shall be no crossed connection with the central water
system.
            5.   An adequate system shall be provided for the complete
recirculation of water throughout the pool. This system shall:
               a.   Be designed and constructed so that a turn-around at least
once every 12 hours is provided; and
               b.   Include pumping equipment, hair and lint catcher, filters
and necessary pipe connections for backwashing and cleaning of filters.
            6.   Every pool shall include adequate and readily available life
preservers, ropes and/or pulls.
         (i)   Nuisances: a pool shall not be used in such a manner as to
result in any of the following:
            1.   Undue interference with the enjoyment of property rights of
adjacent residents;
            2.   Illumination of adjacent residential properties beyond what is
customary in a residential neighborhood;
            3.   Creation of loud and unnecessary noise beyond what is
customary in a residential neighborhood; or
            4.   Use of musical instruments or playing of a radio or recorded
music at a volume louder than is necessary for the convenient hearing of
persons at the pool and in such a manner as to disturb the peace of neighboring
residents.
         (j)   Electrical connections:
            1.   All electrical installation shall comply with the
specifications of the National Electrical Code;
            2.   Electrical wires or conductors shall not cross overhead over
or within five feet of any pool surface;
            3.   Electrical wires or conductors shall not cross on the ground
or underground under or within five feet of a pool surface, unless they are
enclosed within a rigid conduit;
            4.   Any underwater lights shall be water-tight, self-contained
units with ground connections running from a water-proof junction box to a
proper grounding facility or medium. All underground electrical wires supplying
current to underwater lights shall be enclosed within a rigid conduit; and
            5.   All metal fences, enclosures or railings, near of adjacent to
a pool, which might become electrically charged as a result of contact with
broken overhead conductors, or from any other cause, shall be effectively
grounded.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 403; Ord. 223-2007, passed 2-5-2007)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 155.150 FRONTAGE ONTO IMPROVED STREETS; NUMBER OF USES OR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Frontage required onto improved street.
      (1)   Every principal building shall be built upon a lot with permanent
access upon a public street or upon a private street improved to meet borough
standards, including a street right-of-way, or for which such improvements have
been insured by the posting of a performance guarantee pursuant to Chapter 154
of this code of ordinances. In the case of townhouses or garden apartments,
this requirement may be met by access onto a parking court which has access
onto such street.
      (2)   If a pre-existing lawful lot only has access onto an existing
private street that does not meet borough standards and the improvement of that
street is reasonably beyond the control of the applicant, the lot may be used
for a single permitted by right use, but no new lots shall be created that will
not be able to meet this requirement,
      (3)   If an applicant only owns and/or controls land on one side of a
street, such applicant is only responsible for:
         (a)   Improvements along the side of the street that the applicant
controls;
         (b)   Paving of the cartway on the portion of the street from the
centerline of the right-of-way to the applicant’s property;
         (c)   Any additional paving needed for adequate traffic flow; and
         (d)   Any needed storm water improvements on both sides of the street.
   (B)   Multiple occupancy. Occupancy of a principal commercial or industrial
building by more than one permitted use is specifically allowed; provided that,
all other requirements of this chapter are satisfied.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 801)
§ 155.151 HEIGHT EXEMPTION; AIRPORT APPROACHES.
   (A)   The maximum structure height specified for each district shall not
apply to farm silos, communications towers, amateur radio antenna, water
towers, belfries or steeples of places of worship, electrical transmission
lines, elevator shafts, windmills, chimneys or other appurtenances usually
required to be and customarily placed above the roof level and not intended for
human occupancy. For these exempted structures, the maximum height shall be 250
feet above the average surrounding ground level.
   (B)   At a minimum, any structure proposed to have a height of 75 feet or
more above average surrounding ground level shall present sufficient
information to the Zoning Officer to prove that the structure would comply with
all applicable federal, state and borough requirements regarding airport
approaches and warning lights.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 802)
§ 155.152 SPECIAL LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS, SIGHT DISTANCE AND BUFFER YARDS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   In general. No lot, structure or use shall be created or developed
in such a way that it would result in another lot, building or use not being
able to meet the requirements of this chapter. This includes, but is not
limited to, setback areas, non-impervious areas and off-street parking areas.
      (2)   Emergency access. All uses and structures shall have adequate
provisions for access by emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Setbacks not applicable. See exemptions for certain structures in §
155.137 of this chapter.
      (4)   Accuracy. The applicant is responsible to make sure that all
measurements submitted to the borough are accurate.
   (B)   Exceptions to minimum lot areas, lot widths and yards.
      (1)   Non-conforming lots. See §
155.155 of this chapter.
      (2)   Through lots. Any lot having frontage on two approximately parallel
streets (not including an alley) shall provide a required front yard setback
abutting each of these streets.
      (3)   Corner lots. Setback areas equal to the minimum front yard setback
shall be provided along all portions of a corner lot abutting any public
street, except where the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that the provision of a smaller setback of a different yard for a
residential building will conform with the clearly prevailing yard pattern on
existing developed adjoining lots fronting on the same street.
      (4)   Projections into required yards. Cornices, eaves, sills or other
similar architectural features, exterior stairways, fire escapes or other
required means of egress, rain leads or chimneys or other similar structures
that do not include space usable by persons may extend or project into a
required yard not more than three feet, except as may be required under a
drainage or utility easement.
      (5)   Septic systems. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Municipal
Sewage Enforcement Officer from requiring a minimum lot area larger than what
is stated in this chapter to carry out state and borough sewage regulations.
      (6)   Previously approved setbacks. Where a residential subdivision was
granted final approval prior to the adoption of this chapter, and the lawful
setbacks in effect at such time are shown on the approved plans, those approved
setbacks may apply in place of the setbacks in this chapter.
      (7)   Improved lots. In any residential zoning district where more than
75% of the residential block frontage has been improved prior to the effective
date of this chapter with buildings having front yards of less depth than that
required for the particular zoning district, then, the required front yard
setback may be decreased for such block to not less than the minimum of the
majority of such buildings. Once established, this minimum building setback
shall be regarded as the front setback for that block and maintained as such.
   (C)   Sight distance at intersections.
      (1)   Sightlines at intersections.
         (a)   To ensure that traffic passing through an intersection or
turning onto a street can safely see oncoming traffic.
         (b)   A triangular area as described in this section shall be graded
and shall be kept free of sight obstructions between the ground level and a
height of eight feet, including structures non-transparent fences, vegetation
and signs (but not including sign posts of less than one feet in width or the
trunks of deciduous trees).
         (c)   This sight distance triangle shall be shown on an official site
plan and on any record plan that may be required. Such triangle shall serve as
a permanent setback line for all such visual obstructions and shall be binding
upon present and future owners of the land.
         (d)   If a driveway, accessway or street would enter onto a state
street, the required sight distance shown on the official plan shall be the
applicable minimum sight distance required by PennDOT.
         (e)   If minimum sight distance requirements would not be established
by PennDOT, then the sight distance triangle shall be as follows: the triangle
shall be measured based upon the intersecting point of the centerlines of the
street receiving the traffic and the entering street, accessway or driveway.
The sight distance triangle shall be established by a distance along the
centerline of the receiving street (established below) and a distance (measured
along the centerline of the entering street, accessway or driveway) 25 feet
back from the edge of the existing right-of-way of the receiving street. The
following distances shall be used along the centerline of the receiving street
in each direction from the intersection to establish the sight distance
triangle:
               1.   Three hundred fifty feet along the centerline of any
arterial street;
               2.   Two hundred seventy-five feet along the centerline of any
collector street; and
               3.   Two hundred feet along the centerline of any local street.
         (f)   These sight distance requirements shall apply to all
intersections involving a public street and another street, accessway or
driveway, except these requirements shall not apply to an individual driveway
serving only one or two dwelling units that enters onto a local or collector
street.
         (g)   A sight distance approach to an intersection triangle shall
apply for each direction of approach.
      (2)   Buffer yards. Buffer yards and screening complying with the
following standards shall be required under the following situations.
         (a)   Buffer yard width. When required, screening shall be required in
the buffer yards with evergreen following situations:
 
Buffer Yard to be Provided When the Use Providing the  Width of Required Buffer
by the Following           Screening and Buffer Is     Yard (in feet)
Any newly developed or     Abutting a residential
expanded industrial use or district or within 250 feet 50
industrial storage or      of an existing dwelling
loading area
Any newly developed or     Abutting a residential
expanded commercial use    district or within 250 feet 50
                           of an existing dwelling
 
Any newly developed or
expanded industrial     Abutting the existing     20, unless such area would
outdoor storage or area right-of-way of an        be completely screened from
routinely used for the  expressway, arterial or   view of such streets by
parking of 4 or more    collector street          buildings
tractor-trailers
                        Required to provide a
Any use                 buffer yard under another 20, unless stated otherwise
                        section of this chapter
 
         (b)   Location of buffer yards.
            1.   The buffer yard shall be measured from the district boundary
line, future street right-of-way line or lot line, whichever is applicable.
            2.   Buffer yards shall not be within an future street right-of-way
and shall be in addition to that right-of-way.
            3.   The buffer yard may include areas within a required front,
side or rear yard or a paved area setback area provided the larger yard
requirement shall apply in case of conflict.
            4.   A business use shall not be required to provide a buffer yard
for an adjacent residential use or district if they are separated by an
expressway.
         (c)   Characteristics of buffer yards.
            1.   The buffer yard shall be a landscaped area free of structures,
dumpsters, commercial or industrial storage or display, manufacturing or
processing activity, materials, loading and
unloading areas or vehicular parking. No new driveways or streets shall be
permitted in the buffer yards, except at points of ingress or egress.
            2.   Maintenance: in all buffer yards, all areas not covered by
trees and shrubs shall be well-maintained in an all-season natural ground cover
(such as grass) and shall be kept free of debris and rubbish and shall not
involve grass more than eight inches in height.
            3.   Preservation of existing vegetation or slopes: where a buffer
yard would be required and an existing tree line, thick vegetation or steep
slopes presently serves as a natural buffer, this buffer shall be maintained
for the width required under §
155.152(D)(1) of this chapter. If this requirement is violated, the applicant
shall be required to plant a buffer yard that will be closely similar in
effect, density and character to the buffer yard that was removed.
            4.   If a substantial natural berm or slope or dense vegetation
will be maintained and will be substantial enough to meet the buffer provisions
of this section, or if topographic conditions or the creation of berming by the
developer would clearly relieve the need and cause for screening, the Zoning
Officer may waive the required evergreen screening.
            5.   Fence: any fence that may be constructed shall be on the
inside of any required evergreen screening.
         (d)   Planting screen.
            1.   Each buffer yard shall include a planting screen of trees or
shrubs extending the full length of the lot line. Required screening shall be
of permitted types of evergreen shrubs and trees. In addition, planting screens
shall include an average of one deciduous shade tree for every 50 feet of
length of the buffer yard. Such shade trees may be the same as any street trees
that may be required in that location by borough ordinances. Such shade trees
shall meet the requirements for such trees listed in §
155.197 of this chapter.
            2.   Each planting screen shall be in accordance with the following
requirements.
               a.   Required evergreen plant materials shall have a minimum
height when planted of three feet.
               b.   Plant materials used in the planting screen shall be of
such species, spacing and size as can reasonably be expected to produce, within
five years, a solid year-round visual screen at least six feet in height.
               c.   The planting screen shall be permanently maintained by the
landowner and any plant material that is not alive one year after planting
shall be replaced.
               d.   The planting screen shall be so placed that at maturity it
will be at least eight feet from any cartway and will not grow over an exterior
lot line.
               e.   The planting screen shall be broken only at points of
vehicular or pedestrian access and shall comply with the sight distance
requirements of division (C) above.
               f.   Evergreen trees (as opposed to shrubs) shall be planted at
off-sets to allow space for future growth, as seen in the sketch below.
         (e)   Plans.
            1.   Prior to the issuance of a permit under this chapter where a
buffer yard would be required, and on any required subdivision or land
development plan, the applicant shall submit plans showing:
               a.   The location and arrangement of each buffer yard;
               b.   The placement, general selection of species and initial
size of all plant materials; and
               c.   The placement, size, materials and type of all fences to be
placed in such buffer yard.
            2.   The Zoning Officer shall review such plans to determine that
the plans are in conformance with the terms of this chapter.
         (f)   Species of plants. Evergreen trees and shrubs shall be of the
following species, unless applicant proves to satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that a substitution would be appropriate. If more than 25 evergreen
plants are proposed to meet the requirements of this section, a maximum of 50%
of such plants shall be of one species.
            1.   Evergreens.
Ilex opaca - American Holly
Picea omorika - Serbian Spruce
Picea pungens - Colorado Spruce
Pinus thunbergi - Japanese Black Pine
Picea glauca - White Spruce
Picea abies - Norway Spruce
Pinus nigra - Austrian Pine
Pinus strobus - White Pine
Pseudotsuga taxifolia - Douglas Fir
Tsuga canadensis - Canada Hemlock
Tsuga caroliniana - Carolina Hemlock
 
            2.   Hedges.
 
Buxus - Boxwood
Cotoneaster divaricata - spreading cotoneaster
Crataegus crusgalli - Cockspur Thorn
Grataegua phanenopyum - Washington Hawthorn
Elaeagnus angustifolia - Russian Olive
 
Euonymus alatus - Winged Euonymus
Viburnum - all varieties
 
            3.   Evergreen shrubs.
Hamamelis vernalis - Vernal Witch Hazel
Hamamelis virginiana - Common Witch Hazel
Juniperus virginiana - Upright Juniper
Juniperus shinensis - Spreading Juniper
Ilex - Japanese Holly
Ilex verticillata - Winterberry
Pinus Hugo - Dwarf Pine
Pyracantha lalandei - Laland Firethorn
Rharanus frangula - Glossy Buckthorn
Taxus capitata - Upright or Spreading Yew
Taxus hicksi - Hicks Yew
Thuja occidentalis- American Arborvitae
 
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 803)
§ 155.153 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Any part of a commercial, industrial or institutional lot which is not
used for structures, loading areas, parking spaces and aisles, sidewalks and
designated storage areas shall be provided with an all- season, well-maintained
natural groundcover, and shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs.
   (B)   See §§
155.196(A),
155.197(H) and
155.152(D) of this chapter and any street tree requirements of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 804)
§ 155.154 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS.
   (A)   Purpose. Minimum future right-of-way widths are established for
streets where the existing right-of-way is less than that indicated in this
section for the particular class of street. These future rights-of-way are
designed to reserve adequate rights-of-way for future circulation improvements,
including, street widenings, shoulders, bikeways and sidewalks, and to provide
rights-of-way for needed public sewer and water lines.
   (B)   Dedication of future right-of-way. See any requirements in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Measurement.
      (1)   The future right-of-way shall be measured with one-half on either
side of the centerline of the existing right-of-way. If the existing right-of-
way is clearly significantly off-center of the cartway, the centerline of the
cartway shall be used.
      (2)   The specific classification of each street is shown on the
borough’s Official Street Classification Map.
   (D)   Minimum widths. The following future rights-of-way for future
circulation improvements shall be reserved along each street, unless a
differing right-of-way is required by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances:
 
Street Classification    Minimum Future Right-of-Way
Arterial street          80’
Collector street         60’
Expressway               120’
Local and private street 50’
 
   (E)   Ownership and maintenance. The Borough Council may require that the
future right-of-way reserved by this section be dedicated to the borough or
PennDOT if the Borough Council deems that the additional right-of-way is needed
because of the impact or the burden of the proposed development on the street
system. If the right-of-way is not dedicated or is not accepted by PennDOT or
the borough at the time of development of a use, that land shall remain a part
of the adjacent lot and be reserved for future dedication until such time as
the borough or PennDOT may agree to accept dedication.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A future right-of-way shall not be required to be dedicated where
the only activity being proposed is the development of single-family detached
residential lots or agricultural lots each of which will have a minimum lot
area of ten acres.
      (2)   As a special exception, the Zoning Hearing Board may approve a
reduction in the minimum future right-of-way where the applicant clearly proves
to the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board either of the following:
         (a)   The proposed use and/or subdivision is of such low intensity
that it will not create any measurable additional impact on the adjacent street
system; or
         (b)   That it would be for practical purposes infeasible for the
street to be substantially widened at any time in the future because of the
existence of substantial existing buildings on both sides of such street within
close proximity to such street and that the additional right-of-way is not
needed for the extension of water and sewer lines.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 805)
§ 155.155 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Registration of non-conformities. It shall be the responsibility of an
of a party asserting a non- conformity to provide the evidence that it is
lawful. A property owner may request a written statement of non-conformity from
the Zoning Officer after providing sufficient evidence.
   (B)   Continuation. A lawful non-conforming use, structure or lot as defined
by this chapter may be continued and may be sold and continued by new owners;
provided that, any expansion of, construction upon or change in use of a non-
conformity shall only occur in conformance with this section.
   (C)   Expansion of, construction upon or change in use of non-conformities.
      (1)   Non-conforming structure.
         (a)   The Zoning Officer shall permit a non-conforming structure to be
reconstructed or expanded; provided:
            1.   Such action will not increase the severity or amount of the
non-conformity (such as the area of the building extending into the required
setback) or create any new non-conformity; and
            2.   Any expansion will comply with the applicable setbacks in that
district and other requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   In the case of a non-conforming structure which is used by a
non-conforming use, any expansion shall also meet the requirements of this
section regarding non-conforming uses.
      (2)   Non-conforming lots.
         (a)   New permitted structures for a single permitted by right
principal use and its customary accessory uses may be constructed,
reconstructed or expanded on a non-conforming lot of record as a permitted by
right use if all of the following requirements are met.
            1.   The lot area is at least 30% of the minimum lot area.
            2.   The lot width is at least 30% of the minimum lot width.
            3.   The lot is a lot of record that lawfully existed prior to the
adoption of this chapter or an applicable subsequent amendment.
            4.   Minimum setbacks and other requirements of this chapter are
complied with for any new construction or expanded area.
            5.   For construction of a new building to be served by an on-lot
septic system, the lot shall be able to comply with all state septic
regulations, but shall not be required by this chapter to provide an
alternative drainfield location.
         (b)   The Zoning Hearing Board may grant a special exception to reduce
the required setbacks concerning construction on a non-conforming lot if the
Board determines that such reduction would result in a building that would be
more compatible with neighboring residences than would be built if the setback
requirement was not reduced.
         (c)   Contiguous non-conforming lots under common or closely related
ownership shall be combined to form lots that would be less non-conforming.
         (d)   If a proposed development on a non-conforming lot does not meet
the requirements of divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)(b) above, then development
of the lot shall not occur unless a variance is granted by the Zoning Hearing
Board. In addition to the standards stated for a variance in the state’s
Municipalities Planning Code, the Zoning Hearing Board shall also review
whether any reasonable alternative permitted uses could reasonably be made of
the property that would less significantly adverse impacts than the proposed
use upon the established character of an existing residential neighborhood.
      (3)   Reconstruction or expansion of a non-conforming non-residential
use. A non-conforming use or a building used by a non-conforming use shall not
be reconstructed or expanded, except in accordance with the following
provisions.
         (a)   Such expansion or enlargement shall require special exception
approval from the Zoning Hearing Board under §
155.028 of this chapter.
         (b)   Such reconstruction or expansion shall be only upon the same lot
that the non- conforming use was located upon at the time the use became non-
conforming, not including any land added by any future subdivisions.
         (c)   The total building floor area used by a non-conforming use or
the total area covered by impervious surfaces of a non-conforming use shall not
be increased by greater than 50% beyond each such measurement that existed in
such use at the time such use becomes non-conforming. This maximum increase
shall be measured in aggregate over the entire life of the non-conformity.
         (d)   Any expansion of a non-conforming use shall meet the required
setbacks and other requirements of this chapter, unless the Zoning Hearing
Board grants a variance.
      (4)   Expansion of a non-conforming residential use. An existing non-
conforming residential use may be expanded in floor area as a permitted by
right use; provided that:
         (a)   The number of dwelling units is not increased;
         (b)   The expansion meets all applicable setbacks;
         (c)   No new types of non-conformities are created; and
         (d)   A non-conformity is not made more severe (including the building
area within the required setback area).
   (D)   Damaged or destroyed non-conformities.
      (1)   A non-conforming structure that has been destroyed or damaged equal
to 50% or more of its total value by fire, windstorm, lightning or a similar
cause deemed to be not the fault of the owner may rebuild in a non-conforming
fashion only if the application for a building permit is submitted within 18
months after the date of damage or destruction, and work begins in earnest
within 12 months afterwards. A non-conformity may not be increased by any
reconstruction.
      (2)   No rebuilding shall be undertaken as provided herein until plans
for rebuilding have been presented and approved by the Zoning Officer. Any
change of one non-conforming use to another non- conforming use shall comply
with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   All non-conforming off-premises signs, junkyards, outside storage
areas and similar non- conforming uses of open land, when damaged to an extent
of 50% or more of replacement cost, shall not be continued, repaired or
reconstructed.
   (E)   Abandonment of a non-conformity.
      (1)   If a non-conforming use of a building or land is discontinued,
razed, removed or abandoned for 365 or more days subsequent use of such
building or land shall conform with the regulations of the district in which it
is located, except:
         (a)   As provided for in the “damaged or destroyed non-conformities”
provisions of this section; and
         (b)   The accessory outdoor storage of junk as defined in §
155.008 of this chapter in a residential district on a lot of less than ten
acres that is visible from a street or adjacent dwelling shall be removed
within 30 days of the adoption of this section.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to provide evidence that the
non-conformity was not abandoned. Abandonment and the intent to abandon shall
be presumed to commence on the date when substantial efforts to continue the
use cease.
      (3)   If a non-conforming off-premises junkyard, outside storage area or
similar non-conforming use of open land is discontinued for 30 days or more,
the use shall not be continued, repaired or reconstructed, except for the
parking of commercial and junk vehicles under §
155.198 of this chapter.
   (F)   Floodplain. See
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Changes from one non-conforming use to another.
      (1)   Once changed to a conforming use, a structure or land shall not
revert to a non-conforming use.
      (2)   A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use
only if permitted as a special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board. The Board
shall determine whether the applicant has provided sufficient proof to show
that the proposed new use will be equally or less objectionable in external
effects than the pre-existing non-conforming use with regard to:
         (a)   Traffic generation (especially truck traffic);
         (b)   Noise, dust, fumes, vapors, gases, odor, glare, vibration, fire
and explosive hazards;
         (c)   Amount and character of outdoor storage; and
         (d)   Compatibility with the character of the surrounding area.
   (H)   District changes. Any uses, structures or lots that become non-
conforming because of a zoning district change shall be regulated under this
section on non-conformities.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 806)
§ 155.156 TEMPORARY STRUCTURE OR USE.
   A temporary permit may be issued by the Zoning Hearing Board as a special
exception for structures or uses subject to the following additional
provisions.
   (A)   Duration.
      (1)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall establish a limit on the duration of
the use.
      (2)   In the case of a special event, except under special circumstances,
this should be a maximum of six days in any 60-day period, the Zoning Hearing
Board may grant approval once for a recurring event.
   (B)   Statement from owner. Prior to the issuance of a permit for a
temporary use or structure, the applicant shall present a statement from the
owner of record of the land recognizing the application and accepting
responsibility to ensure that the use or structure is removed once the permit
expires.
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   Such structure or use shall be removed completely upon expiration
of the permit without cost to the borough.
      (2)   If the structure or use is not removed in a timely fashion after
proper notification, the borough may remove the use or structure at the cost of
the person who owns the land upon which the structure or use is located.
   (D)   Conditions. The temporary use or structure shall:
      (1)   Be compatible with adjacent uses; and
      (2)   Clearly be of a temporary nature.
   (E)   Construction vehicle parking and temporary offices. See “essential
services”, a permitted by right accessory use, in §
155.070 of this chapter.
   (F)   Tents. This section shall not apply to tents erected for a maximum of
five days in any calendar year for:
      (1)   Routine and customary accessory non-commercial uses; and
      (2)   Routine and customary accessory uses to an existing commercial use,
which are permitted by right.
   (G)   Fee. Either the Zoning Hearing Board or the Borough Council may waive
and/or return the required application fee if the applicant is a Internal
Revenue Service recognized and well-established non- profit organization and
the applicant clearly shows that the proposed use is temporary and will be used
to clearly primarily serve a charitable or public service purpose.
   (H)   Non-profit. Only a well-established and Internal Revenue Service-
recognized non-profit organization proposing a temporary use to clearly
primarily serve a charitable or public service purpose shall be eligible to
receive approval for a commercial use in a district where that use it not
permitted.
   (I)   Special events. For a special event that will attract significant
numbers of the public, the Zoning Hearing Board shall deny the use if it
determines that the following will not be generally appropriate: sanitary and
water service; traffic control; off-street parking; and protection of the
public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 807)
§ 155.157 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND BONUS FOR RESOLVING EXISTING PROBLEMS.
   (A)   The requirements of this section shall apply to all uses, except if a
different and more specific requirement is stated in
Chapter 154 of this chapter.
   (B)   The borough may submit any proposed storm water control methods to the
Borough Engineer for review. All such methods shall follow standard
professional practices, as determined by the Borough Engineer.
   (C)   Developments involving the addition of 5,000 square feet or more of
impervious cover shall limit the rate of storm water runoff so that no greater
rate of runoff will occur than occurred on the site prior to development, based
upon a five-, ten- and 50-year storm, unless different year storms are
specified in
Chapter 154 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The applicant shall provide pre- and post-development
calculations for all uses that involve an addition of 5,000 square feet or more
of impervious cover.
      (2)   Where crop farming or disturbed earth exists on the site prior to
development, meadow in good condition shall be used as the starting base for
such calculations.
   (E)   The quantity, velocity and direction of resulting storm water runoff
shall be managed in a manner as to adequately protect persons from possible
injury, to prevent increased erosion and to avoid damage to property.
   (F)   Any watershed management plan officially adopted under Act 167 of 1978
shall govern the percentage of pre-development runoff that is released off the
site after development.
   (G)   Bonus for solving existing storm water problems.
      (1)   Intent: to provide incentives to developers to help to resolve
preexisting storm water problems.
      (2)   This section shall apply to a serious storm water problem area, as
identified in the Borough Comprehensive Plan, as amended.
      (3)   If an applicant offers to put into place measures to resolve a
serious pre-existing storm water problem area, a bonus may be granted as a
special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board under this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board, based upon review by the Borough Engineer, that the proposed
measures would resolve the problem. No bonus shall be granted for any storm
water controls that would ordinarily be required under borough ordinances,
engineering reviews and state law.
      (4)   If an applicant meets the requirements of these bonus provisions,
the Zoning Hearing Board shall authorize by special exception the following:
         (a)   An increase of 5% in the maximum impervious coverage above what
would otherwise be permitted; and
         (b)   A decrease of 5% in the minimum lot area below what would
otherwise be permitted.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 808)
§ 155.158 RECREATION LAND AND FEES REQUIREMENTS.
   See the requirements of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 809)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
§ 155.170 ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION REQUIRED.
   A use shall not occur in such a way that can be clearly proven on the basis
of professional engineering and environmental study to be a significant hazard
to the public health and safety or environmental quality.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 501)
§ 155.171 NUISANCES AND HAZARDS TO PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No land owner, tenant nor leasee shall use or allow to be used land,
structures or premises that they are responsible for and/or using in such a way
as to threaten or create any of the following situations or conditions or
activities:
      (1)   Communicable disease hazards, including activities that encourage
the breeding of disease- prone insects or rodents;
      (2)   Significant physical hazards to the public, especially hazards that
would be easily accessible by small children;
      (3)   Activity that would prevent a neighboring landowner of ordinary
sensibilities from making reasonable use of their property;
      (4)   Activity that would be a significant hazard to the public health
and safety because of serious explosive, fire, biological, biogenetic or toxic
hazards; and (See §
155.175 of this chapter.)
      (5)   Activity that would seriously threaten or cause serious pollution
to ground waters or surface waters.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of every property owner to ensure that his,
her or their property does not threaten the public health or safety. Property
owners shall remove or alter any structure or situation that threatens the
public health and safety. This includes, but is not limited to: structurally
unsound structures, including those damaged by fire; and storage areas and
detention basins that are not properly secured from young children.
   (C)   If the Zoning Officer becomes aware of a serious threat to the public
health and safety, the Zoning Officer may, but is not required to, require that
the property owner resolve the hazard. If the hazard is not removed within a
reasonable period of time after such notice, the borough may, at the option of
Borough Council, remove the hazard or contract for its removal. In such case,
the property owner shall be required to compensate the borough for all such
expenses for such work and any reasonable accompanying legal and administrative
costs. The borough does not take responsibility for identifying or removing all
hazards.
   (D)   The state’s Department of Labor and Industry requirements for fire
safety of commercial, industrial, apartment and institutional buildings shall
be complied with as applicable.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 502)
§ 155.172 WETLANDS.
   (A)   If a reasonable doubt exists in the determination of the Zoning
Officer, the Borough Engineer, the Planning Commission or Borough Council
whether a portion of a site would meet one or more state or federal definitions
of a “wetland”, the Zoning Officer shall require the applicant to provide a
study by a qualified professional delineating whether wetlands exist prior to
construction.
   (B)   All applicants are put on notice that federal regulations may require
a property owner to demolish newly constructed buildings and to remove all fill
if land meeting a definition of “wetland” is altered.
   (C)   All permits of the borough are issued on the condition that the
applicant comply with federal and state wetlands regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 503)
§ 155.173 SETBACKS FROM SURFACE WATERS.
   (A)   Intent. To protect the water quality of surface waters in the borough,
to preserve physical access to surface waters in case of future public
acquisition, to minimize erosion and sedimentation, to preserve the natural
storm water drainage system of the area and to conserve sensitive wildlife and
aquatic habitats and to provide for setbacks that can be used as required yard
areas for a use.
   (B)   Setbacks from major surface waters. No building, off-street parking or
commercial or industrial storage or display area shall be located within 75
feet of the top edge of each closest bank of a major surface water. See the
borough floodplain map in case a wider area is regulated under
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances. The exact location of the top edge of
the bank shall be determined by the Borough Engineer. Major surface waters are
defined as “the Bushkill Creek”.
   (C)   Exemption. The setbacks of this section shall not apply to public
utility facilities or publicly- owned recreational facilities.
   (D)   Setback areas and construction. During any filling, grading or
construction activity, all reasonable efforts shall be made to leave the
setback areas of this section undisturbed.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 504)
§ 155.174 FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The requirements of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, as amended, shall apply and are hereby
incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 505)
§ 155.175 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVE AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No aboveground or surface storage of potentially explosive or
hazardous liquids, gases or chemicals in any quantity in excess of 250 cubic
feet in volume shall be stored or maintained within 150 feet of a residential
district boundary or abutting dwelling, except for the following substances for
on-lot use: building heating fuels; fire suppression chemicals; fertilizers;
janitorial chemicals; and printing supplies.
   (B)   All outdoor bulk aboveground or surface storage facilities areas for
potentially explosive or hazardous liquids, gases or chemicals shall be
enclosed by a secure chainlink or similar fence with a minimum height of seven
feet, and shall include a sign stating their contents.
   (C)   No substance shall be stored in such a way that it could be washed
into the ground water or surface water, if such substance could seriously
contaminate ground water or surface water or serious harm aquatic life of a
waterbody.
   (D)   If a substance threatens ground water or surface water contamination,
it shall be stored within an impermeable containment. Such storage shall be
surrounded if needed by a berm that would drain any spilled substance to a
engineered collection area.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 506)
§ 155.176 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Compliance. All methods of sewage and waste treatment and disposal
shall meet the requirements of State DER and be in accordance with the Official
Borough Sewage Facilities Plan, as amended, when applicable.
   (B)   Recertification of on-lot systems. Any septic system is required to be
reviewed and/or tested by the Sewage Enforcement Officer for adequacy if a
change of use or expansion of use would cause an increase in sewage flows or if
there would be an increase in dwelling units.
   (C)   Back-up system. Any lot using an on-lot septic system that is granted
final subdivision approval after the adoption of this section shall include an
open, unpaved land area that is tested by the Borough Sewage Enforcement
Officer and found to be a generally suitable area for the installation of a
second system if the first system failed. This requirement for an alternative
system location shall not apply if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of
the Zoning Officer that public sewage service can be reasonably expected to
serve the lot within three years from the date of occupancy.
   (D)   On-lot systems and lot area. The minimum lot areas shall not apply if
a testing of a site for a septic system results in a determination by the
Sewage Enforcement Officer that a larger lot area is needed, in which case that
larger lot area shall be the minimum.
   (E)   EDU. For all non-residential uses not connected to an approved central
sewage treatment system that meets both state and borough requirements, an
amount of wastewater shall not be generated for treatment through an on-site
absorption area that is greater than an average of one equivalent dwelling unit
per acre of lot area.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 507)
§ 155.177 NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated on private or public
property any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which
exceeds the limits set forth in this section in the following table, when
measured at or within a lot line of the receiving lot or district boundary:
 
Sound Level Limits by Receiving Land Use and Time
Receiving Land Use Category or  Hours                         Sound Level Limit
District
Commercial or CR District       At all times                  65 dBA
Industrial District             At all times                  72 dBA
                                7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., other 57 dBA
Residential District or lot     than Sundays
line of an existing dwelling or 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., plus
hospital                        all day Sundays and federal   53 dBA
                                holidays
Notes to Table:
dBA means “A” weighted decibel
 
   (B)   For any source of sound which emits a pure tone, the maximum sound
level limits set forth in the above table shall be reduced by five dBA.
   (C)   The maximum permissible sound level limits set forth in the above
table shall not apply to any of the following noise sources:
      (1)   Sound needed to alert people about an emergency;
      (2)   Repair or installation of utilities or construction of structures,
sidewalks or streets between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., except for
clearly emergency repairs which are not restricted by time;
      (3)   Household power tools and lawnmowers between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Agricultural activities, including permitted animal husbandry, but
not exempting a commercial kennel;
      (5)   Motor vehicles traveling on state-owned streets, railroads and
aircraft;
      (6)   Public celebrations specifically authorized by the Borough Council
or a county, state or federal government agency or body;
      (7)   Unamplified human voices; and
      (8)   Routine ringing of bells and chimes by a place of worship or
municipal clock.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 508)
§ 155.178 VIBRATION.
   No use shall generate vibration that is perceptible to an average person
through his or her senses, without the use of measuring instruments, on private
property beyond the exterior lot line of the use generating the vibration.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 509)
§ 155.179 ODORS AND OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Odors.
      (1)   No use shall generate odors that are seriously offensive to persons
of average sensibilities beyond the boundaries of a lot line.
      (2)   This shall not apply to odors created by permitted agricultural
uses that are using “normal farming practices” within Act 133 of 1982, as
amended, the state’s Right to Farm Act.
      (3)   This section shall apply to uses that do not follow the farming
practices referenced in that state law, such as if a use does not plow under
manure within the specified period of time.
   (B)   Open burning. See §§
93.01 through
93.03 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 510)
§ 155.180 LIGHT, GLARE AND HEAT CONTROL.
   (A)   Street lighting exempted. This section shall not apply to street
lighting that is owned or maintained by the borough or the state.
   (B)   Minimization. All uses or sources, including signs, shall minimize the
production of light, heat or glare that is perceptible beyond any property line
of the lot on which the light, heat or glare is produced.
   (C)   Height of lights. No luminaire, spotlight or other light source that
is within 200 feet of a dwelling or residential district shall be placed at a
height exceeding 40 feet above the average surrounding ground level. This
limitation shall not apply to lights needed for air safety nor lights intended
solely to illuminate an architectural feature of a building.
   (D)   Diffused. All light sources, including signs, shall be properly
diffused as needed with a translucent or similar cover to prevent exposed bulbs
from being directly visible from streets or adjacent lots. No spotlight shall
be directed such that the bulb itself is directly visible from a public street
or dwelling.
   (E)   Shielding. All light sources, including signs, shall be shielded
around the light source and carefully directed and placed to prevent the
lighting from creating a nuisance to reasonable persons in adjacent dwellings
or residentially-zoned areas, and to prevent the lighting from shining into the
eyes of passing motorists.
   (F)   Maximum candlepower. No lighting source, including signs, shall
spillover a property line in such a way as to cause an illumination of greater
than the following amounts, measured on the surface at the lot line of the
receiving lot or street:
      (1)   Three-tenths footcandle spillover at ten feet inside a residential
lot line between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (2)   One footcandle spillover at 10 feet inside a residential lot line
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (G)   Flickering. Flashing, flickering or strobe lighting are prohibited,
except for non-advertising seasonal lights between October 25 and January 12.
   (H)   Measurement. The maximum illumination levels of this section shall be
measured with a photoelectric photometer having a spectral response similar to
that of the human eye. A FOOTCANDLE is defined as a unit of measurement
equaling the illumination on a surface one square foot in area where there is a
distribution of light having a candlepower of one candela.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 511)
§ 155.181 PLACEMENT, SCREENING OF WASTE CONTAINERS; REQUIRED FENCING OF OUTDOOR
STORAGE.
   (A)   Placement. Whenever reasonable, commercial, industrial and
institutional outdoor machinery that could create a noise nuisance shall be
placed on a side of a building that does not face an abutting existing
dwelling, residential district or other noise-sensitive use.
   (B)   Safety. Hazards involving outdoor machinery and storage shall be well-
marked.
   (C)   Solid waste containers.
      (1)   Screening. All trash dumpsters shall be screened on three of four
sides (not including the side it is to be emptied from) as needed to screen the
dumpster from view from public streets or dwellings on abutting lots. A solid
wooden fence, brick wall or evergreen plants shall be used for such screening.
      (2)   Setback from dwellings. If physically possible, any solid waste
container with a capacity of over ten cubic feet shall be kept a minimum of ten
feet from a dwelling unit on an abutting lot.
      (3)   Food sales. Any use that involves the sale of ready-to-eat food for
consumption outside of a building shall provide and maintain adequate outdoor
solid waste receptacles at convenient locations on the property for customer
use.
   (D)   Fencing of outdoor storage. Outdoor industrial storage areas involving
storage covering more than 5,000 square feet of land, and stationary hazardous
machinery and equipment that are outdoors shall be secured by fencing or walls
that are reasonably adequate to make it extremely difficult for children under
the age of ten to enter, unless the applicant proves in writing to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Officer, that such fencing or walls are not needed.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 512)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.195 REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Requirement.
      (1)   Each use that is newly developed, enlarged, significantly changed
in type, or increased in number of establishments shall develop and maintain
off-street parking spaces in accordance with the table under division (B)
below.
      (2)   Uses not specifically listed in the table under division (B) below
shall comply with the requirements for the most similar use listed in the table
under division (B) below, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of
the Zoning Officer that an alternative standard should be used for that use.
      (3)   Where a proposed use contains or includes more than one type of
use, the number of parking spaces required shall be the sum of the parking
requirements for each separate use, except as may be allowed under division (B)
below.
      (4)   Where the calculation of required parking spaces does not result in
a whole number, the calculation shall be rounded to the closest whole number.
   (B)   Conditional reduction in parking spaces.
      (1)   To minimize impervious surfaces, while ensuring adequate parking,
to recognize unique circumstances may justify a reduction in parking.
      (2)   The Zoning Hearing Board may permit a reduction, through the
special exception process of §
155.028 of this chapter, of the number of parking spaces required to be
initially developed; provided, each of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Board, using existing and
projected (five years) employment, customer, resident or other relevant data,
that a reduction in the off-street parking spaces to be initially developed as
required by division (A) above is warranted.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit plans that show how the total parking
required by division (A) above could be accomplished if needed in the future by
identifying the potential future parking areas on the official site plans.
 
Off-Street Parking Requirements
(see definition of “employee” in §
155.008)
Use              Number of Off-Street Parking Plus 1 Off-Street Parking Space
                 Spaces Required              for Each
AGRICULTURAL USES
Animal husbandry                              Employee
Crop farming                                  Employee
Kennel (minimum of 4)     1 per employee             15 animals of capacity
Plant nursery             1 per employee             100 sq. ft. of indoor
                                                     sales floor area
Seasonal sale of                                     100 sq. ft. of sales floor
agricultural products     1 per employee             area
(minimum of 5)
Stable, non-household     1 per employee             8 animals of capacity
(minimum of 2)
COMMERCIAL USES
Adult bookstore or        1 per 50 sq. ft. of total
cabaret or massage parlor floor area                 Employee
(minimum of 10)
                          In addition to parking or
                          storage needed for maximum
                          number of vehicles stored,
                          displayed or based at the
                          lot at any point in time,
Auto service station or   which spaces are not       Employee
repair garage             required to meet the stall
                          size and aisle width
                          requirements of this
                          chapter, 5 per repair/
                          service bay and 1/2 per
                          fuel nozzle
Automatic transaction     3 per machine,
machine                   conveniently located
Bed and breakfast use     1 per rental unit, plus    Non-resident employee
                          the 2 per dwelling unit
Bowling alley             2 per lane, plus 3 per     0.75 employee
                          pool table
Bus station, intercity    5 per loading/unloading    Employee
                          stall for buses
Car wash                  3 per washing lane or      0.75 employee
                          stall
                          1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor
                          area accessible to
Financial institution     customers, plus 3          Employee
(includes bank)           convenient spaces for each
                          automatic banking
                          transaction machine
Funeral home              1 per 4 seats for visitor  Employee
                          use
Golf course               3 per hole                 0.75 employee
Golf driving range        1 per tee                  0.75 employee
                          2 per customer seat used
Haircutting/hairstyling   for haircutting,           Employee
                          hairstyling, hairwashing,
                          manicuring or similar work
                                 1 per rental unit, plus 1 per 3
Hotel or motel                   seats in any meeting room (plus  0.75 employee
                                 any required by any restaurant)
Ice skating/roller skating       200 sq. ft. of floor area        0.75 employee
                                 accessible to users
                                 1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area
                                 other than racquetball courts
Indoor recreation, membership    accessible to customers/members,
club or exercise club            plus parking required by any     Employee
                                 additional use (such as
                                 restaurant), plus 2 spaces per
                                 racquetball court
Laundromat                       1 per 3 washing machines         Employee
Miniature golf                   2 per hole                       0.75 employee
                                 1 per 225 sq. ft. of total floor
Office (minimum of 3 per         area accessible to people or 1
establishment)                   per employee, whichever is
                                 greater
Outdoor recreation (other than   1 per 3 persons of capacity (50%
uses specifically listed in this may be on grass overflow areas)  0.75 employee
table)
Personal service use, other than 1 per 150 sq. ft. of floor area
haircutting/hairstyling (minimum accessible to customers          Employee
of 2 per establishment)
Restaurant, fast food (minimum   1 per 2 seats                    0.75 employee
of 20)
Restaurant, standard             1 per 3 seats                    0.75 employee
Retail sales of only furniture,  1 per 400 sq. ft. of floor area
lumber, carpeting, bedding or    accessible to customers
floor covering
Retail sales or shopping center  1 per 175 sq. ft. of total floor
(minimum of 5 per establishment, area, except 1 per 225 sq. ft.
except 10 per video rental       of total leasable floor area if
store)                           such is greater than 20,000 sq.
                                 ft.
Tavern                           1 per 30 sq. ft. of total floor
                                 area
                                 1 per 3 seats, 1/2 of which may
                                 be met by convenient parking
Theater or auditorium            shared with other business uses  0.75 employee
                                 on the same lot that are
                                 typically not routinely open
                                 beyond 9:30 p.m.
Vehicle, boat or          1 per 15 vehicles, boats or Employee
manufactured home sales   homes displayed
Veterinarian office       5 per veterinarian          Employee
INDUSTRIAL USES
                          In addition to parking or
                          storage needed for maximum
                          number of vehicles stored,
                          displayed or based at the
                         lot at any point in time,
                          which spaces are not        Per employee not working
                          required to meet the stall  on-site but driving a
                          size and aisle width        company vehicle based at
                          requirements of this        the site
                          chapter
All industrial uses
(including warehousing,   0.9 per employee working
distribution and          on-site
manufacturing)
INSTITUTIONAL USES
College, university or    1.5 students not lining on
trade school              campus who attend class at  Employee
                          peak times
                          10 children with such
Day care center           spaces designed for safe    0.75 employee
                          and convenient drop-off and
                          pick-up
Dormitory                 2 residents aged 16 or      Non-resident employee
                          older
Hospital                  1 per 2 beds                0.75 employee
Library, community center 1 per 500 sq. ft. of floor
or cultural center or     area accessible to patrons  Employee
museum                    and/or users
Medical or dental office  6 per doctor and 4 per      Employee
or clinic                 dentist
Nursing home              1 per 6 beds                0.75 employee
Place of worship          1 per 3 seats in room of
                          largest capacity
School, primary or        1 per student aged 16 or    Employee
secondary                 older
Self-storage development  1 per 15 storage units      Employee
Swimming pool, non-       1 per 40 sq. ft. of water
household                 surface, other than wading  Employee
                          pools
Utility facility             Vehicle routinely needed to
                             service facility
RESIDENTIAL USES
                             1 per rental unit or bed,
Boarding house               whichever is greater, except Non-resident employee
                             1 per 2 beds for a college
                             fraternity or sorority
                             2 per dwelling unit, except
                             1 per 1 bedroom conversion
                             apartment, and except an
                             additional 0.5 per dwelling
                             unit for a development of 10
Dwelling unit                or more dwelling units that
                             does not abut a street that
                             allows for on-street parking
                             on at least 1 side in
                             addition to 2 travel-lanes
                             (this parking may be in
                             overflow lots)
Group home                   See §
                             155.136(A)
                             As determined to be
Home occupation              necessary by the Zoning      Non-resident employee
                             Hearing Board
Home office                  None additional required
Housing clearly restricted   0.75 per dwelling unit or
to persons 60 years and      rental unit                  Non-resident employee
older
Housing clearly primarily
serving persons 70 years and 0.5 per dwelling unit or     Non-resident employee
older and/or physically      rental unit
handicapped
 
         (c)   The area reserved for possible future parking spaces shall
comply with all requirements of this chapter that would relate to such spaces,
and be generally physically suitable for such use.
         (d)   1.   The applicant agrees to enter into an agreement with the
borough requiring the applicant to:
               a.   Maintain the area reserved for possible future parking with
a natural groundcover unless it is needed for parking; and
               b.   To develop some or all of these areas into additional
parking if at any time the Board determines that the additional parking is
needed.
            2.   This agreement shall be recorded to the deed as a covenant
running with the land.
         (e)   The Zoning Officer shall bring the parking reduction agreement
to the Board for reconsideration if the Zoning Officer determines that the
reduced parking is not meeting actual needs, based upon field investigations.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 601)
§ 155.196 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING,
   (A)   General. Parking spaces and accessways shall be laid out to result in
safe and orderly use, and to fully take into account all of the following:
vehicular access onto and off the site, vehicular movement within the site,
loading areas, pedestrian patterns and any drive-thru facilities. No parking
area shall cause a public nuisance, hazard or impediment to traffic off the
lot.
   (B)   Existing parking.
      (1)   Structures and uses in existence at the effective date of this
chapter shall not be required to add additional parking spaces to meet the
requirements of this subchapter unless the general type of use is significantly
changed or the use is expanded.
      (2)   Any parking spaces serving such pre-existing structures or uses at
the time of adoption of this subchapter shall not in the future be reduced in
number below the number required by this chapter.
   (C)   Change in use or expansion. If a building or use significantly changes
in type of use or expands by a measure used in this subchapter to determine
parking need (such as floor area, maximum number of employees, number of
dwellings units or seating capacity), and if such expansion or change would
increase the number of required parking spaces by at least 10% or 25 spaces,
whichever is less, then the use shall provide the total number of parking
spaces that would be required if the entire existing and proposed uses would be
newly developed under this subchapter, instead of only being required to
provide the additional uses for the change or expansion.
   (D)   Continuing obligation. All required numbers of parking spaces shall be
available as long as the use or building which the spaces serve still exist,
and such spaces shall not be reduced in number below the minimum required by
this chapter.
   (E)   Conflict with other uses. No required parking area shall be used for
any other use (such as storage or display of materials) that interferes with
the area’s availability for parking to serve a use.
   (F)   Location of parking. Required off-street parking spaces shall be on
the same lot or abutting lot with the principal use served, unless the
applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer that a permanent
method of providing the spaces is available using area of a lot within 250 feet
of the principal use being served.
   (G)   Joint parking lots.
      (1)   Two or more uses may provide their required parking in a common
parking lot; provided that, the total number of spaces in such lot shall not be
less than the sum of the spaces required for each use individually (except as
provided below).
      (2)   Under §
155.195(B) of this chapter, the applicant may prove that parking requirements
should be reduced because the uses would have: different peak parking times or
have overlapping customers.
      (3)   If two separate principal business uses on separate abutting lots
develop a shared driveway system and an integrated shared parking lot, the
number of required parking spaces for each use shall be reduced by 10%.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 602)
§ 155.197 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No parking area shall be designed to require or encourage parked
vehicles to back into a public street in order to leave a parking space, except
for a single-family or two-family dwelling with its access onto a local street
or parking court.
      (2)   Every required parking space shall be designed so that each motor
vehicle may proceed to and from the parking space provided for it without
requiring the moving of any other vehicle.
      (3)   Parking areas shall not be within any of the following: a required
buffer yard, a future or existing street right-of-way or a required paved area
setback.
      (4)   No parking or other paved area shall be located within ten feet of
a septic system absorption field.
      (5)   All parking areas shall include clearly defined and marked traffic
patterns. In any lot with more than 30 off-street parking spaces, raised curbs
and landscaped areas shall be used to direct traffic within the lot. Major
vehicular routes shall be separated as much as is reasonable from major
pedestrian routes within the lot.
      (6)   All areas for off-street parking, off-street loading and unloading
and the storage or movement of motor vehicles shall be physically separated
from the street by a raised curb, planting strip, wall or other suitable
barrier against unchanneled motor vehicle entrance or exit, except for
necessary and approved vehicle entrances and exits to the lot.
      (7)   Each lot shall provide adequate area upon the lot to prevent back-
up of vehicles on a public street while awaiting entry to the lot, or while
waiting for service at a drive-thru facility.
   (B)   Size and marking of parking spaces.
      (1)   Each parking space shall be a rectangle with a minimum width of
nine feet and a minimum length of 18 feet, except:
         (a)   The minimum depth shall be 22 feet for parallel parking; and
         (b)   If a lot includes more than 100 parking spaces, a maximum of 20%
of the required spaces may be a rectangle with a minimum width of eight feet
and a minimum length of 16 feet; provided that, those spaces are marked as
“compact cars only”; and, provided that, those spaces are distributed in
different portions of the lot and do not include the most desirable spaces in
the lot.
      (2)   All spaces shall be marked to indicate their location, except those
of a single-family or two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Aisles.
      (1)   Each aisle providing access to stalls for one-way traffic only
shall be at least the minimum aisle width specified as follows:
 
Angle of Parking       Minimum Aisle Width
Parallel or 30 degrees 12 ft.
45 degrees             14 ft.
60 degrees             18 ft.
90 degrees             20 ft.
 
      (2)   Each aisle providing access to stalls for two-way traffic shall be
at least 24 feet in width, except a width of 20 feet may be allowed for areas
of parking that are clearly primarily for employees.
      (3)   Maximum length of parking aisle: 200 feet.
   (D)   Access drives and driveways.
      (1)   Width.
 
Width of Driveway/Accessway at Entrance onto Public Street  1-Way Use 2-Way Use
(at the edge of the cartway)
Minimum                                                     12 ft.    20 ft.
Maximum                                                     35 ft.    50 ft.
 
      (2)   Maximum grades of driveway.
         (a)   Driveway serving one dwelling unit or agricultural use: 12%
maximum grade.
         (b)   Any other driveway or accessway: 10% maximum grade.
         (c)   Initial 20 feet from the edge of a cartway of a public street:
maximum of 5% grade.
         (d)   Any stricter requirements that may be in Chapter 154 of this
code of ordinances shall apply.
      (3)   Drainage. Adequate provisions shall be made to maintain
uninterrupted parallel drainage along a public street at the point of driveway
or access drive entry.
      (4)   Separation between driveways. At least 50 feet shall be provided
between any two accessways or driveways along one street within one lot.
      (5)   Separation from intersection. If a driveway or accessway enters
onto a collector or arterial street, then the centerline of that driveway or
accessway where it enters the collector or arterial street shall be a minimum
of 75 feet from the centerline of any other street, where that street enters
the collector or arterial street at a different point that the driveway or
accessway.
      (6)   State permit. Where there will be new or intensified access to a
state street or other work within the right-of-way of a state street, a state
highway occupancy permit shall be obtained, as applicable.
      (7)   Sight distance for driveways. See §
155.152(C)(2) of this chapter.
   (E)   Paving, grading and drainage.
      (1)   Parking and loading facilities and including driveways shall be
graded and adequately drained to prevent erosion or excessive water flow across
streets or adjoining properties.
      (2)   Except for landscaped areas, all portions of required parking,
loading facilities and driveways shall be surfaced with asphalt or concrete;
except that, portions or all of parking areas may be left in grass or gravel
where the applicant proves to the full satisfaction of the Zoning Officer that:
         (a)   The nature and extent of the use of the parking area would not
cause any need for paving; and
         (b)   Dust will be adequately controlled on any gravel areas.
   (F)   Lighting of parking areas.
      (1)   Any parking area of ten or more spaces designed for use during
night hours shall be adequately illuminated for security purposes at no cost to
the borough.
      (2)   See also §
155.180 of this chapter.
   (G)   Paved area setbacks (including off-street parking setbacks).
      (1)   Intent. To ensure that parked or moving vehicles within a lot do
not obstruct sight distance or interfere with pedestrian traffic, to aid in
storm water management along streets and to prevent vehicles from entering or
exiting a lot other than at approved driveways.
      (2)   Uses within the paved area setback.
         (a)   The paved area setback required by this section, together with
any existing street right-of-way area that is not used as a cartway, street
shoulder or on-street parking, shall be maintained in natural groundcover (such
as grass) and shall not be used for any of the following:
            1.   Paving, except for approved driveway/access drive entrances
and except any concrete sidewalks or asphalt bikepaths of eight feet wide or
less;
            2.   Fences; or
            3.   Parking, storage or display of vehicles or items for sale or
rent.
         (b)   A paved area setback may include the following:
            1.   Permitted freestanding signs;
            2.   Storm water facilities that are not impervious;
            3.   Concrete sidewalks or asphalt bikepaths of eight feet wide or
less; or
            4.   Approved driveway crossings.
      (3)   Paved area setbacks. Any commercial, industrial, institutional,
townhouse or garden apartment use shall provide paved area setbacks as follows:
 
If a Paved Area Abuts     Minimum Paved Area Setback (Measured from Existing
                          Legal Right-of-Way Line after Development)
Collector or local street 5 ft.
 
Expressway or expressway ramp or arterial street
   For lot with 2 acres or less of impervious coverage10 ft.
   For lot with more than 2 acres of impervious covera20 ft.
 
      (4)   Buffer areas between uses. See §
155.152 of this chapter.
      (5)   Paved setback from commercial and industrial buildings.
         (a)   All paved areas, shall be setback a minimum of five feet from
the exterior structural walls of any commercial or industrial building. This
setback shall not apply to the following:
            1.   Concrete sidewalks;
            2.   Paved walkways to reach doors;
            3.   Driveways entering a garage, interior parking, loading/
unloading area, vehicle service bay or carport; or
            4.   Drive-thru pick-up windows.
         (b)   This setback is intended to allow sufficient area for
firefighting, sidewalks and foundation landscaping, and to provide safety
against vehicles hitting walls.
   (H)   Paved area landscaping (parking lot trees).
      (1)   This section is primarily intended to reduce the thermal pollution
of surface waters from parking lot runoff.
      (2)   Any lot that would include more than 25 parking spaces shall be
required to provide landscaped areas within the paved area. A maximum of 15
consecutive and contiguous parking spaces in a row shall be allowed without
being separated by a landscaped area.
      (3)   One deciduous tree shall be required for every 3,000 square feet of
paved area. This number of trees shall be in addition to any trees required by
any other section of this chapter or by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Trees required by this section shall meet the following standards.
         (a)   Type of trees permitted. Required trees shall be chosen from the
following list of approved street trees, unless the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Officer that another type of tree would shade paved
areas, be resistant to disease, road salt and air pollution and be attractive.
Types of Deciduous Trees Permitted to Meet Chapter Requirements
Acer rubrum - American Red Maple
Acer saccharum - Sugar Maple
Celtis occidentalis - Common Hackberry
Fagus sylvatica - European Beech
Fraxinus americana - White Ash
Fraxinus Pennsylvania - Green Ash
Ginko biloba fastigiata - Maiden Hair Tree (male only; female has noxious odor)
Gleditsia triacanthos - Thornless Locust
Liriodendron tulipifera - Tulip Poplar
Quercus alba - White Oak
Quercus acutissima - Sawtooth Oak
Quercus borealis - Red Oak
Quercus coccinea - Scarlet Oak
Quercus macrocarpa - Bur Oak
Quercus imbricaria - Shingle Oak
Quercus montana - Chestnut Oak
Quercus velutina - Black Oak
Quercus phellos - Willow Oak
Sophora japonica - Chinese Scholar Tree
Tilia americana - American Linden
Tilia cordata - Little Leaf European Linden
Tilia euchlora - Crimean Linden
Tilia petiolaris - Silver Linden
Zelkova serrata - Zelkova
Notes to Table:
This chapter only regulates the species of trees are used to meet requirements
of the borough. The species of trees that are not required by borough
ordinances are not regulated.
 
         (b)   Quality of trees. Required trees shall be of symmetrical growth
and free of insect pests and disease.
         (c)   Minimum size. The trunk diameter (measured at a height of one
foot above the finished grade level) shall be a minimum of two inches or
greater.
         (d)   Planting and maintenance. Required trees shall be:
            1.   Planted in conformance with good landscaping practices, with
adequate unpaved surface around each for water and air;
            2.   Properly protected by raised curbs, distance or other devices
from damage from vehicles;
            3.   Surrounded by a minimum of 12 square feet of pervious ground;
and
            4.   Properly maintained.
         (e)   Removal of dead or dying trees. A required tree shall not be
removed without being replaced by another tree that meets the requirements of
this section. Trees which have died or have become diseased or pest ridden
within 18 months from the time of planting shall be replaced by the developer.
      (5)   A substantial proportion of the trees required by this section
should be planted within the parking lot within protected islands. These
protected islands should be used to direct the flow of traffic through the
parking lot in a smooth and safe manner to prevent “cross-taxiing”. Required
trees are also encouraged to be planted in highly visible locations, especially
at the edge of parking areas abutting arterial streets.
      (6)   For every existing tree on the lot that is healthy and is protected
and preserved and maintained after the completion of all construction and that
would generally meet the requirements of this section:
         (a)   One less deciduous tree shall be required to be planted for
every such preserved tree with a minimum trunk diameter of between four and 18
inches (measured one foot above the natural ground level); and
         (b)   Two less deciduous trees shall be required to be planted for
every such preserved tree with a minimum trunk diameter of 18 inches or greater
(measured one foot above the natural ground level).
   (I)   Parking lot screening. To prevent vehicle headlights from shining
directly into a dwelling located within 150 feet of a parking area of five or
more spaces, such parking area shall be required, as needed, to use one or more
of the following methods: wooden fencing; decorative masonry walls; or
evergreen screening. Such barriers shall have a minimum height of four feet;
except that, a barrier of up to eight feet shall be required by the Zoning
Officer as needed because of the topography or because the parked vehicles
would be trucks or buses.
   (J)   Handicapped parking.
      (1)   Number of spaces. Any lot including at least ten off-street parking
spaces shall include a minimum of one handicapped space. A minimum of 3% of all
off-street parking spaces required for a use shall be handicapped spaces.
      (2)   Location. Handicapped parking spaces shall be located where they
would result in the shortest possible accessible distance to an accessible
building entrance.
      (3)   Minimum size. Thirteen feet by 18 feet for each space.
      (4)   Slope. Handicapped parking spaces shall be located in areas of less
than 5% slope in any direction.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 603)
§ 155.198 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND
UNREGISTERED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose. To prevent the character of residential areas from being
harmed by nuisances from smells and noise from commercial vehicles.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is primarily used for business
purposes, including, but not limited to, making service calls, transporting
equipment used in a business or in accomplishing physical work as part of a
business (such as hauling material).
      TRACTOR. A truck that is primarily intended to pull a trailer, as defined
below, and not primarily to carry goods itself.
      TRAILER. A commercial vehicle with a length of 15 feet or more that is
not self-propelled, that is intended to haul materials, vehicles, goods, gases
or liquids and that is intended to be pulled by a tractor (as defined above)
and that is not a “recreational vehicle”.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the following; provided,
they are in an operational condition:
      (1)   Municipally-owned vehicles;
      (2)   Ambulance, fire and rescue vehicles;
      (3)   Buses used primarily for transporting public or private school
children to and from school or transporting persons to or from a place of
worship;
      (4)   Recreational vehicles (see definition in §§
155.008 and
155.137 of this chapter);
      (5)   Vehicles operated by the U.S. Postal Service or a level of
government or a municipal authority;
      (6)   Vehicles actively engaged in the construction or repair of streets,
curbs, sidewalks or utilities in the immediate area;
      (7)   Vehicles actively engaged in making routine household deliveries or
rendering routine household services to a property that is adjacent or on the
same lot as the vehicle is parked;
      (8)   Equipment and vehicles clearly primarily intended for agricultural
use; and
      (9)   Parking of vehicles that is customarily accessory to a lawful non-
conforming principal business use.
   (D)   Storage of commercial vehicles in residential district. The following
shall apply to any residential lot of less than ten acres in a residential
district:
      (1)   A maximum of one commercial vehicle with a gross weight exceeding
15,000 pounds or with greater than two axles or any tractor (as defined by this
section) shall be parked, stored or otherwise kept, and such shall occur only
during a maximum total of 48 hours in any seven-day period.
      (2)   No tractor shall be maintained or repaired, except for clearly
emergency repairs.
      (3)   No trailer shall be parked, stored, maintained or kept.
      (4)   A maximum total of two commercial vehicles of any type shall be
parked, stored or otherwise kept on a lot.
   (E)   Garbage hauling vehicle. No vehicle that has been used for the bulk
hauling of household garbage shall be parked for more than 30 minutes of any
day on a portion of a lot that is within 200 feet of a dwelling.
   (F)   Non-conformities. Any non-conforming condition or use that exists
under any part of this section, other than the customarily accessory parking of
commercial vehicles on the lot of a lawful non-conforming principal business
use, shall be made conforming within 120 days of the effective date of this
chapter.
   (G)   Storage of junk vehicles.
      (1)   On lots of less than five acres in a residential district, no “junk
vehicle” (as defined by §
155.008 of this chapter) shall be parked or stored in any way that the vehicle
is visible from a public street or an adjacent dwelling.
      (2)   The following shall apply on lots of five acres or more in a
residential district or on lots of any size in a non-residential district: a
maximum of two “junk vehicles” shall be parked or stored in such a way that the
vehicles are visible from a public street or an adjacent dwelling. This
provision shall not apply to a permitted auto sales use, junkyard or auto
repair garage; provided that, the regulations for that use are met.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 604)
§ 155.199 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Each use shall provide off-street loading facilities, which meet
the requirements of this section, sufficient to accommodate the maximum demand
generated by the use.
      (2)   At the time of site plan or land development review, the applicant
shall provide evidence to the Planning Commission, who may advise the Zoning
Officer, on whether the use will have sufficient numbers and sizes of loading
facilities. For the purposes of this section, the words “loading” and
“unloading” are used interchangeably.
   (B)   Design and layout of loading facilities. Off-street loading facilities
shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Each off-street loading space shall be at least (in feet):
 
Largest Type of Truck Intended Minimum Width                     Minimum Depth
Pick-up truck or van           9                                 18
Tractor-trailer                12 (except 11 if more than 5 such 50
                               spaces on a lot)
Trucks other than tractor-     10                                25
trailers, pick-ups or vans
 
      (2)   Each space shall have sufficient maneuvering room to avoid
conflicts with parking and traffic movements within and outside of the lot. No
facility shall be designed or used in such a manner that it threatens a safety
hazard, public nuisance or a serious impediment to traffic off the lot;
      (3)   Each space and the needed maneuvering room shall be located
entirely on the lot being served and be located outside of required buffer
areas, paved area setbacks and street rights-of-way;
      (4)   An appropriate means of access to a street shall be provided;
      (5)   Paving, grading and drainage: §
155.197(E) of this chapter; and
      (6)   All such facilities shall comply with the lighting requirements of
§
155.197(F) of this chapter, the landscaping requirements of §
155.197(G) or this chapter and the noise limitations of §
155.177 of this chapter.
   (C)   Fire lanes. Fire lanes shall be provided where required by state or
federal regulations or other local ordinances. The specific locations of these
lanes are subject to review by borough fire officials.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 605)
SIGNS
§ 155.210 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purposes of this subchapter. To: promote and maintain overall
community beautification; establish reasonable time, place and manner
regulations on the exercise of free speech, without regulating content; promote
traffic safety by avoiding distractions and sight distance obstructions;
protect property values and ensure capability with the character of neighboring
existing and planned land uses; and assist in carrying out the goals of the
state’s Outdoor Advertising Act, as amended.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit under this chapter shall be required for all
signs allowed in any Zoning District, except for signs listed in §
155.212 of this chapter, and except for window signs that are not of a
permanent nature; provided that, they meet the other requirements of this
subchapter. All signs shall comply with the regulations of this chapter. Only
signs specifically permitted by this chapter shall be allowed.
   (C)   Changes on signs. Any lawfully existing sign (including non-conforming
signs) may be painted or repaired or changed in message without a new permit
under this chapter; provided that, the changes do not increase the sign area or
otherwise result in non-compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 701)
§ 155.211 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs legally existing at the time of enactment of this chapter and
which do not conform to the requirements of this chapter shall be considered
non-conforming signs. Any non-conforming sign which is removed, destroyed or
damaged to an extent of 25% or more of its cost of replacement shall be
replaced only with a conforming sign, except as below.
   (B)   The Zoning Hearing Board may, by special exception, allow the
voluntary replacement of an existing lawful non-conforming signs with a new
non-conforming sign; provided that, the applicant proves to the satisfaction of
the Zoning Hearing Board that the new sign would be substantially less non-
conforming than the sign being replaced.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 702)
§ 155.212 MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   The following signs shall be permitted by right within all zoning districts
within the following regulations, and shall not be required to have a permit
under this subchapter.
 
                                   Maximum Number
                                   of Each of 2
                                   Sides of Each  Maximum Area
Type and Definition Maximum Number Sign on        of Each Sign  Other
of Sign             Per Lot        Residential    on Other Lots Requirements
                                   Lots of Less   - sq. ft.
                                   Than 2 Acres -
                                   sq. ft.
Agricultural                                                    Shall only be
products sign                                                   posted during
Advertises the                                                  days when such
seasonal, temporary                                             products are
sale of             2              4              15            actively
agricultural                                                    offered far
products produced                                               sale, up to a
on the premises, or                                             maximum of 90
the seasonal sale                                               days per year
of Christmas trees
Charitable event
sign
Advertises a                                                    Shall be placed
special event held                                              a maximum of 30
a maximum of 9 days                                             days prior to
in any calendar     2              4              15            event and
year that primarily                                             removed a
is held to benefit                                              maximum of 10
a U.S. Internal                                                 days after
Revenue Service                                                 event
recognized non-
profit organization
Contractor’s sign
Advertises a                                                    Shall only be
building                                                        permitted while
tradesperson who is                                             such work is
actively conducting 2              10             15            actively and
significant work on                                             clearly
a particular lot                                                underway and a
that is not the                                                 maximum of 10
tradesperson1s                                                  days afterward
place of business
Directional sign
Provides
information
indicating traffic
direction, entry or
exit, loading or
service area, fire                                4, other than
lanes, parking or   No maximum     4              signs painted  
closely similar                                   on pavement
information
regarding the same
lot as the sign is
on and that does
not include
advertising
Flag                                                            Flags of any
A banner or pennant                                             nation or level
made of fabric or                                               of government
fabric-like plastic                                             or that only
that is hung in     2              20             20            include colors
such a way to flow                                              and no
in the wind and                                                 commercial
that includes some                                              message are not
type of commercial                                              regulated by
message                                                         this chapter
Garage sale
sign
Advertises an  2 per      Shall be placed maximum of 48 hours before permitted garage
occasional     event 4 4  sale or auction begins, and be removed maximum of 24 hours
garage sale,              after event ends
porch sale or
auction
Historic sign
Memorializes
an important
historic
place, event
or person and             Not regulated by this chapter
that is
authorized by
the borough or
a county,
state or
federal agency
Holiday
decorations
Commemorates a
holiday
recognized by
the borough,              Not regulated by this chapter
county, state
or federal
government and
that does not
include
advertising
Home
occupation
sign           5     2 2  Shall not be illuminated
Advertises a
permitted home
occupation
Identification
sign
Only
identifies the
name and/or
occupation of
the resident   1     2 6   
and/or the
name and/or
use of a lot,
but that does
not include
advertising
Not visible
sign
Not visible
from any                  Not regulated by this chapter
public street
or any
exterior lot
line
Official sign
Erected by the
state, county,
borough or
other legally
constituted
governmental
body, or
specifically              Not regulated by this chapter
authorized by
borough
ordinance or
resolution,
and which
exists for
public
purposes
Open house
sign
Advertises the 2 per      Shall be placed maximum of 48 hours before open house
temporary open event 4 4  begins, and be removed maximum of 24 hours after open house
house of a                ends
property for
sale or rent
Physically
carried sign
Physically                Not regulated by this chapter
carried by a
person
Political sign
Advertises a
person or
party seeking
political
office or a
political
cause or
opinion on a              Shall be placed a maximum of 60 days prior to election or
referendum or             referendum and removed a maximum of 10 days after such
matter of      3     4 15 election or referendum. If a political sign does not meet
political                 these requirements, then it shall be regulated as an “off-
concern and               premises sign”
which relates
to a scheduled
election or
matter of
upcoming vote
by a
governmental
body
                                                          Shall only be placed
                                                          after the submission
                                                          of a sketch,
                                                          preliminary or final
Proposed development                                      subdivision or land
sign                                                      development plan to
Announces a proposed                                      the borough, and
subdivision or land                                       shall be removed when
development for which                                     any of the following
a sketch, preliminary                                     occur: 1) if such
or final plan has     1          8             20         plan is rejected or
been submitted to the                                     permanently
borough, and which                                        withdrawn, 2) for a
would involve a                                           residential
minimum of 10                                             development, when all
dwelling units or a                                       of the approved units
non-residential use                                       are sold or 3) for a
                                                          non-residential
                                                          development, when a
                                                          permanent sign is
                                                          placed
Public services sign
Advertises the
availability of
restrooms, telephone,
meeting times and     No maximum 2             2           
places of service,
organizations or
other similar public
convenience
                                                          Shall only be placed
Real estate sign                                          on the property while
Advertises the                                            it is actively for
availability of                                           sale, lease or rent,
property on which the 1          4             15         and shall be removed
sign is located for                                       a maximum of 30 days
sale, rent or lease                                       after agreement of
                                                          sale, rent or lease
                                                          is signed
Required sign
Only includes
information required                                      Not regulated by this
to be posted outdoors                                     chapter
by a government
agency or the borough
Right-of-way sign
Posted within the
existing right-of-way                                     Not regulated by this
of a public street                                        chapter
and officially
authorized by the
borough or PennDOT
Special sale displays                                     Shall be placed on a
Promotional banners,                                      lot a maximum total
balloons,                                                 of 15 days in any
floodlights, lasers   No maximum Not permitted No maximum calendar year, and
or non- governmental                                      only on lots
flags used by a                                           including a
business to attract                                       commercial use
special attention
Time and temperature
sign
With a sole purpose
to announce the       1          Not permitted 40          
current time and
temperature and any
non-profit public
service messages
Trespassing sign
Indicating that a
road is private, that
trespassing is
prohibited on a lot,  No maximum 4             4           
or controlling
certain activities
such as hunting and
fishing on the lot
 
Very small sign
Has an area of less than 1 sq. ft. and that      Not regulated by this chapter
cannot be read by a person of normal eyesight
from a public street or exterior lot line
 
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 703)
§ 155.213 FREESTANDING, WALL AND WINDOW SIGNS.
   The following are the signs permitted on a lot within the specified
districts and within the following regulations, in addition to “exempt signs”
and “temporary signs” permitted in all districts by other provisions of this
subchapter. See definitions of the types of signs in §
155.222  of this chapter.
 
                                Maximum Sign    Maximum Sign    Maximum Sign
                Maximum Height  Area of Wall    Area of Window  Area (Each of 2
Zoning District of Freestanding Signs           Signs (Maximum  Sides) and
or Type of Use  Signs*          (Permitted on a of 1 Side per   Number of
                                Maximum of 2    Sign)           Freestanding
                                Building Faces)                 Signs
CR and                          Maximum total
Residential                     of 10% of the
Districts                       area of the
Special                         building face   Maximum of 5%
exception uses                  on which each   of the area of  Maximum of 1
(not including  8 feet          sign or set of  the building    sign with an
accessory                       signs are       face on which   area of 15 sq.
uses),                          located, up to  the sign(s) are ft. per side
conditional                     a maximum of 24 located
uses, places of                 sq. ft. per
worship and                     building face
golf courses
CR and
Residential
Uses            Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted
Other than uses
listed above
                                Maximum total                   Maximum of 2
                                of 10% of the   Maximum total   signs, one with
Commercial                      area of the     of 20% of the   a maximum area
District(s)                     building face   area of the     of 32 sq. ft.
Single use on a 18 feet         on which each   building face   per side and
single lot                      sign or set of  on which such   the second with
                                signs are       signs are       a maximum of 6
                                located         located         sq. ft. per
                                                                side **
                                Maximum total                   Maximum of 2
                                of 15% of the   Maximum total   signs, one with
Commercial                      area of the     of 20% of the   a maximum sign
District(s)                     building face   area of the     area of 50 sq.
More than one   18 feet         on which each   building face   ft. per side
use on a lot                    sign or set of  on which such   and the second
                                signs are       signs are       with a maximum
                                located         located         of 6 sq. ft.
                                                                per side **
 
                    Maximum total of                        Maximum of 2 signs,
                    10% of the area of  Maximum total of    one with a maximum
                    the building face   20% of the area of  sign area of 50 sq.
Industrial  10 feet on which each sign  the building face   ft. per side and
District(s)         or set of signs are on which such signs the second with a
                    located, up to a    are located         maximum of 6 sq.
                    maximum of 200 sq.                      ft. per side
                    ft.
Notes to Table:
* See definition of “sign height” in §
155.220 of this chapter.
** A third sign shall be permitted with a max. sign area of 50 square feet if
the lot has frontage on 2 arterial streets, includes more than 10
establishments or has more than 400 ft. of frontage on 1 street.
 
   (B)   Minimum height of freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall be
raised above the ground as necessary to ensure proper sight distances along
streets, as established in §
155.152  of this chapter.
   (C)   Maximum height of wall signs. The maximum height of wall signs shall
be equal to the total height of the building to which they are attached.
   (D)   Specific districts. Only those types of signs specifically permitted
by this subchapter in a specific district shall be permitted in that district.
   (E)   Signs on mobile stands.
      (1)   These standards recognize signs on mobile stands as a particular
type of sign that has the characteristics of a temporary sign, but that has
been inappropriately used as a permanent sign. This section is based on the
policy that if a use desires to regularly display a sign for regularly changing
messages, that it erect a permanent sign within all of the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   A sign on a mobile stand, including any such sign that may have
been displayed prior to the adoption of this chapter and which does not have a
lawful permit as a permanent sign, shall only be permitted if it meets all of
the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be permitted only in the commercial district;
         (b)   Shall have a maximum sign area of 50 square feet on each of a
maximum of two sides;
         (c)   Shall only include one such sign per principal use or per lot,
whichever is more restrictive;
         (d)   Shall need a sign permit, which shall state the dates during
which the sign may be displayed;
         (e)   Shall only be displayed on a lot for one period per year, which
shall not exceed 30 days only a calendar year. Refusal to remove the sign after
the 30 days shall constitute a zoning violation;
         (f)   Shall not obstruct safe sight distance to vehicles within lot
and off lot. Shall not be placed within the existing street right-of-way; and
         (g)   Shall not include flashing or blinking lights.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 704)
§ 155.214 ABANDONED OR OUTDATED SIGNS.
   Signs advertising a use no longer in existence or a product no longer
available shall be removed, painted to be blank or changed to advertise the new
use or product within 60 days of the cessation of the original use.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 705)
§ 155.215 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   The following shall regulate the location of signs.
   (A)   Setback from streets. No sign, except official signs, nameplate signs,
public service signs and directional signs, shall be erected within ten feet of
or project over any existing street right-of-way.
   (B)   Sight distance. No sign shall be so located or arranged that it
interferes with the sight distance requirements of §
155.152  of this chapter or safe sight distances for vehicles within a lot.
   (C)   On-premises. No signs, except permitted off-premises, official,
political or public service signs, shall be erected on a property to which it
does not relate.
   (D)   Setbacks. No sign for a commercial or industrial business shall be
located within 25 feet of the lot line of an existing principally residential
use or undeveloped residentially zoned land. A sign is not required to meet
setback requirements for accessory structures.
   (E)   Permission of owner. No sign shall be posted on any property or sign
pole or public utility pole, unless permission has been received by the owner.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 706)
§ 155.216 ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   (A)   See §
155.180  of this chapter.
   (B)   It is strongly encouraged that signs within 200 feet of a dwelling or
a residential district not be illuminated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 707)
§ 155.217 VEHICLE SIGNS.
   Any vehicle or structure to which a sign is affixed in such a manner that
the carrying of such sign or signs no longer is incidental to the primary
purpose of the vehicle or structure, but becomes a primary purpose in itself,
shall be considered a freestanding sign and as such be subject to requirements
for freestanding signs in the district in which such vehicle or structure is
located.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 708)
§ 155.218 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Spinners, pennants or any moving object used to attract attention to a
commercial use. Flags and banners that contain a commercial message, except as
is permitted by §
155.212 of this chapter;
   (B)   Flashing, electronically changing message, blinking, twinkling,
animated or moving signs of any type, except time and temperature signs. This
restriction specifically includes window signs, but does not prohibit Christmas
lighting or displays, within §
155.212 of this chapter;
   (C)   Signs which emit smoke, visible vapors or particles, sound or odor;
   (D)   Signs which contain information that states or implies that a lot may
be used for any purpose not permitted under the applicable provisions of this
chapter;
   (E)   Signs that are of such character, form, shape or color that they
imitate or resemble any official traffic sign, signal or device or that have
any characteristics which are likely to confuse or distract the operator of a
motor vehicle on a public street;
   (F)   Signs that use reflective materials to give the appearance of
flashing, blinking, twinkling or electronically changing messages;
   (G)   Signs or displays that include words or images that are obscene,
pornographic or that an average reasonable person would find highly offensive
to public decency;
   (H)   Balloons of greater than 25 cubic feet that are tethered to the ground
or a structure and are primarily intended for advertising purposes, except as
provided as a “special sale sign”; and
   (I)   Floodlights and lasers. These are only permitted as a “special sale
sign” under §
155.212 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 709)
§ 155.219 SIGNS IDENTIFYING MAJOR RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS.
   The following signs are permitted by right in all districts; provided that,
they meet the following requirements.
   (A)   When allowed. Signs and any supporting structure (as described in this
section) are allowed for developments that have been approved to involve
either:
      (1)   A total of ten or more dwelling units; or
      (2)   A total of five or more office, commercial, industrial or
institutional establishments on a minimum total of three acres of land.
   (B)   Size and number. Signs described in this section may have a maximum
sign area of 25 square feet and a maximum height of eight feet. These signs
and/or structures may be located one each a maximum of three of the major
entrances to the development from exterior streets. This sign area may be an
addition to other sign area limits of this chapter. The signs may be attached
to a brick or wooden structure with a maximum height of eight feet and maximum
length of 20 feet.
   (C)   Durability. Such signs shall be designed to be of a durable
construction requiring little maintenance.
   (D)   Message. Such signs may only include the name of the development, and
any logo. A phone number nay be included during sale or rental of the
development. Such signs shall not include any advertising.
   (E)   Landscaping. Such signs shall be attractively landscaped, with plants
and shrubs requiring minimal maintenance.
   (F)   Location. Such signs and structures shall be located outside of the
existing and future street rights-of-way lines and shall satisfy the sight
distance requirements of §
155.152 of this chapter.
   (G)   Maintenance. If such signs are intended to remain beyond the
completion of a developer’s involvement in a project, the developer shall
provide an appropriate method to ensure proper maintenance of the sign.
   (H)   Illumination. Such signs may not be illuminated.
   (I)   Directional signs within a major business development.
      (1)   When allowed. A directional business sign is allowed at each
intersection of two or more streets within an office, commercial or industrial
development that involves a total of 20 or more acres.
      (2)   Size. Each sign may have a total square footage of 120 square feet.
The sign shall be an orderly single structure and may include on it the names
and logos of all the businesses located in the development, along with
directional arrows and a map.
      (3)   Purpose. The signs allowed by this subsection are to direct
visitors to businesses. These signs are not intended for routine advertising
purposes.
      (4)   Illumination. Such signs may be externally, but not internally
illuminated.
   (J)   Directional signs within a townhouse or garden apartment development.
Within a development that includes 50 or more townhouse or garden apartment
dwelling units, non-illuminated signs with a maximum sign area of six square
feet each may direct visitors to or identify different buildings or units of
the development. These signs may be freestanding or attached to a building or
structure.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 710)
§ 155.220 MEASUREMENT AND MAJOR TYPES OF SIGNS.
   The following regulations shall be used in determining whether signs meet
the measurement and type requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   Building face. The vertical area of a particular side of a building,
but not including the area of any slanted roof;
   (B)   Freestanding sign. A sign which is self-supporting upon the ground or
which is primarily supported by poles attached to the ground and not primarily
supported by a building;
   (C)   Height of sign. The vertical distance measured from the average ground
level surrounding a sign to the highest point of the sign and its supporting
structure;
   (D)   Illuminated sign, externally. A sign illuminated by light outside of
the sign instead of within the sign;
   (E)   Illuminated sign, internally. A sign illuminated by light from within
the sign rather than a source adjacent to or outside of the sign;
   (F)   Off-premises sign. See §
155.008 of this chapter;
   (G)   Proposed development sign. A sign that may or may not be attached to a
supporting wall that announces a proposed subdivision or land development for
which a plan has been submitted to the borough and which meets the applicable
standards of this subchapter;
   (H)   Sign. See §
155.008 of this chapter;
   (I)   Sign area.
      (1)   Sign area shall include all lettering, wording and accompanying
designs and symbols, together with related background areas on which they are
displayed. One “freestanding sign” may include several signs that are all
attached to one structure, with the total “sign area” being the total area of
all signs on the structure.
      (2)   The sign area shall not include any structurally supporting
framework, bracing, or clearly defined wooden framing if such area does not
include any display, lettering or sign and if such area is clearly incidental
to the sign area itself.
      (3)   Where the sign consists of individual letters or symbols attached
to or painted directly on a building or window, other than an illuminated
background that is a part of the sign, the sign area shall be the smallest
rectangle that includes all of the letters and symbols.
      (4)   In computing the permitted sign area of a sign with two sides, the
permitted total sign area shall be based upon the sign area of only one side
(the larger of any two if they differ). If the interior angle formed at the
inside of the two sides of a two-sided sign is greater than 60 degrees, then
the total area of both sides shall not be greater than the permitted total sign
area. No sign shall have more than two sides or faces.
      (5)   Unless otherwise specified, all square footages in regards to signs
are maximum sizes.
   (J)   Sign on mobile stands. A freestanding sign that is attached to a
chassis that allows it to be towed from one location to another and that has no
permanent foundation. See §
155.213 of this chapter;
   (K)   Wall sign. A sign primarily supported by or painted on a wall of a
building and which does not project more than 18 inches from such wall; and
   (L)   Window sign. A sign which is readily visible and can be at least
partially read from an exterior lot line and which is attached to a window or
transparent door or that can be read through a window or transparent door.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 711)
§ 155.221 CONSTRUCTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Every permanent sign permitted in this subchapter shall be constructed
of durable materials and shall be kept in good condition and repair.
   (B)   Any sign which is allowed to become dilapidated may be repaired or
removed by the borough at the expense of the owner or leasee of the property on
which it is located.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 712)
§ 155.222 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS (INCLUDING BILLBOARDS).
   (A)   Purposes. Off-permises signs are controlled by this chapter for the
following purposes, to: ensure that a physical environment is maintained that
is attractive to desirable types of development, especially light industrial
and office parks; prevent visual pollution in the borough and protect property
values, especially in consideration of the fact that most commercial areas of
the borough are within close proximity to existing residences; prevent glare on
adjacent property and streets; protect the open space and natural character of
areas of the borough planned to remain agricultural or as conservation areas;
avoid the creation of additional visual distractions to motorists, especially
along the high speed Route 33 and along busy arterial streets that involve
complex turning movements, congestion and numerous traffic hazards; recognize
the numerous alternative forms of free speech available in the borough,
including existing non- conforming off-premises signs, on-permises signs and
temporary signs and printed and electronic media; recognize that this chapter
allows every landowner a reasonable use for their land; avoid off-premises
signs that would have an unfair advantage over on-premises signs in the
competition for attention, because off-premises signs typically are higher and
larger than on-premises signs; carry out the purposes listed in §
155.210 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-conforming off-premises signs. This section is not intended to
require the removal of an existing lawfully-placed off-permises sign that is in
structurally sound condition.
   (C)   Commercial and non-commercial. This section applies to both commercial
and non-commercial off-permises signs, except as may be specifically provided
for elsewhere in this chapter.
   (D)   PennDOT sign. Signs erected and maintained by the state’s Department
of Transportation are permitted by right in all districts. Such signs that
identify business services available at an interchange are specifically
encouraged as an appropriate and orderly means of providing information without
causing visual pollution or traffic hazards.
   (E)   Permitted off-premises signs. Based directly on the intent statements
within this chapter, off-premises signs are only permitted if they meet the
following requirements, except for exempt signs under §
155.212 of this chapter.
      (1)   District. An off-premises sign is only permitted in the LI
District.
      (2)   Location. An off-premises sign is only permitted within 2,000 feet
of existing right-of-way of an expressway.
      (3)   Maximum sign area. Three hundred square feet.
      (4)   Spacing. Any off-premises sign shall be separated by a minimum of
1,500 feet from any other off-premises sign, including signs on either side of
an expressway and including existing signs in other municipalities. No lot
shall include more than one off-premises sign.
      (5)   Maximum height. Eighty feet. See definition in §
155.220 of this chapter.
      (6)   Attached. No off-premises sign or sign face shall be attached in
any way to any other off-premises sign. Off-premises signs shall have a maximum
of one sign face.
      (7)   Lighting and glare. See standards in §
155.180 of this chapter.
      (8)   Residences. No off-premises sign shall be located within 1,000 feet
of an existing dwelling or residentially zoned land.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § 713)
AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING
§ 155.235 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter is primarily intended to protect the public health and
safety by preventing obstructions that could pose a serious threat to aircraft
as they approach or take off from an airport. This section is adopted under the
authority of the state’s Airport Zoning Act of 1984, as amended. All provisions
of the remainder of this chapter shall apply to the provisions of this
subchapter, including, but not limited to, the enforcement provisions, except
where the requirements of this subchapter clearly differ from such other
provisions.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.1)
§ 155.236 AIRPORT ZONING AGENCIES.
   (A)   The Borough Planning Commission is hereby appointed to serve as the
Borough Airport Zoning Planning Agency.
   (B)   The Borough Zoning Hearing Board is hereby appointed to serve as the
Airport Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Such agencies shall conduct such duties within the same procedures as
are followed when conducting their primary role as the Planning Commission or
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.2)
§ 155.237 AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
   The “Airport Zoning Map” shall be the “Height Limitation and Zoning District
Map”, prepared under the direction of the state’s Bureau of Aviation and dated
1989, and as may be officially amended in the future by such agency. This map
and any subsequent official amendments are hereby incorporated by reference
into this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.3)
§ 155.238 AIRPORT ZONES.
   The following zones are hereby established under this subchapter, as shown
on the Official Airport Zoning Map, with the following stated height
limitations. An area within more than one of the following zones shall be
considered to be only within the most restrictive of those zones.
   (A)   Visual Approach Surface Zone (for a “utility runway”). An area
established beneath the visual approach surface, and which has its inner edge
coinciding with the width of the primary surface zone of the runway, and which
is 250 feet wide. This zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet
at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface, and has its
centerline following a continuation of the centerline of the runway. The height
limitation of this zone slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to
a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
   (B)   Transitional Surface Zone. An area established beneath the
transitional surfaces adjacent to each runway and approach surface as indicated
on the Airport Zoning Map. The height limitations of this zone shall slope
seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet
above the airport elevation. In addition, if the airport has a precision
instrument runway approach zone, such height limits shall slope seven feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the approach surface. When the precision instrument runway
approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established height
limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides
of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended
runway centerline.
   (C)   Horizontal Surface Zone. An area established beneath the horizontal
surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of
which is constructed, by swinging arcs of a certain feet radii from the center
of each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent
arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. This zone shall not include the
approach surface nor the transitional surface zones. The height restrictions of
this zone are established at 150 feet above the established airport elevation.
   (D)   Conical Surface Zone. An area established beneath the conical surface
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal surface and extends outward
therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The height limitations of this
zone shall slope 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the
periphery of the horizontal surface and at 150 feet above the established
airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the established
airport elevation.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.4)
§ 155.239 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be placed,
erected or extended and no tree allowed to grow such that it would be within
the applicable height limitation established by any of the following zones
established by this subchapter: Conical Surface Zone; Horizontal Surface Zone;
Transitional Surface Zone; or Utility Runway Visual Approach Surface Zone.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.5)
§ 155.240 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   (A)   In no case shall the height limitations in this subchapter prevent the
placement, erection or extension of any structure or the growth of any tree up
to:
      (1)   Seventy-five feet above the surrounding average ground level within
all zones established by this subchapter, except the Runway Approach Zone
within 4,200 feet from the end of each runway, unless such structure or tree
would be placed on an area of exceptionally high topography compared to the
surrounding average ground level; and
      (2)   Forty feet above the surrounding average ground level within the
Runway Approach Zone within 4,200 feet of the end of each runway, unless such
structure or tree would be placed on an areas of exceptionally high topography
compared to the surrounding average ground level.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with this subchapter, a special permit shall be
required from the Zoning Officer for the erection, placement or extension of
any structure over 40 feet in height over any of the ground area below any of
the airport zones identified by the Airport Zoning Map.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.6)
§ 155.241 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   The non-conforming provisions of this chapter shall also apply to structures
regulated by this subchapter. No structure that violates the maximum height
requirements of this section shall be allowed to be extended further into the
height limit, and no tree shall be allowed to grow into or further into the
height limit.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.7)
§ 155.242 VARIANCES.
   The Borough Zoning Hearing Board, acting as the Airport Zoning Board of
Adjustment, shall have the power to grant variances to the provisions of this
subchapter where the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Board that the
proposed structure or tree would not be a hazard to aircraft. No variance shall
be granted under this section until a written request for comment is made to
the Federal Aviation Administration, the State Bureau of Aviation and the
manager of the airport most directly affected by the proposal. If such comments
are not received within 45 days from the date of sending, the Board may act
without any and all such reviews.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.8)
§ 155.243 HAZARDS; MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No use or structure shall occur in such a way as to create any
of the following hazards to aircraft:
         (a)   Electrical interference with navigational signals or aircraft
radio communications;
         (b)   Visual interference or confusion between aircraft lights or
airport approach lights and other lights;
         (c)   Glare in the eyes of pilots;
         (d)   Impaired visibility around the airport;
         (e)   Bird strike hazards;
         (f)   The growth of any tree into the applicable height limitations of
the zones established by this subchapter; and
         (g)   Other hazards that threaten to interfere with safe landing,
takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft using an airport.
      (2)   Because of the technical nature of these requirements, the borough
shall not accept any responsibility for identifying aircraft hazards, but shall
instead investigate written complaints filed by licensed pilots, responsible
government officials and operators of airports.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.9)
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Officer shall have the authority to require the owner
of a property that includes hazards to aircraft that existed prior to the
adoption of this subchapter to provide and maintain markings and/or lights on
such hazards after receiving a written request for such action from the
official operator of an airport or officials of the State Bureau of Aviation or
the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall have the authority to require the owner of
a structure receiving a permit or variance under this subchapter after the
adoption of this subchapter to provide and maintain at the property owner’s
expense sufficient markings and or lighting, within the regulations and/or
standards of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1991, § A.10)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Section Code Section
P.S. Section                          Code Section
                                      152.001,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.          152.030,
                                      152.063,
                                      152.080
                                      153.004,
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.            153.020,
                                      154.162
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 to 693.27          152.022
35 P.S. §§ 448.101 to 448.904b      150.15
35 P.S. § 448.802a                   150.15
35 P.S. §§ 670-101 through 670-1102 150.15
                                      152.022,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to 691.1001        153.035,
                                      153.038
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 to 750.20          152.022
                                      53.004,
35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq.            53.999,
                                      54.03
35 P.S. §§ 1651.1 to 1651.12        150.15
35 P.S. § 4008                       93.20
35 P.S. § 4013                       93.20
35 P.S. § 6018                       50.002
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.         50.076
35 P.S. § 7210                       150.15
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.110150.15
52 P.S. §§ 10101 et sq.             92.004
53 P.S. § 515.3                      154.999
53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq.          30.17,
                                      30.18
53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.          30.17,
                                      30.18
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.         33.001,
                                      33.063
                                      152.030,
                                      153.006,
                                      153.020,
                                      153.058,
                                      153.144,
                                      154.011,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.            154.012,
                                      154.015,
                                      154.031,
                                      154.076,
                                      154.091,
                                      154.106,
                                      154.123,
                                      154.161
53 P.S. § 10510                      154.124
53 P.S. § 10703(f)                   154.161
72 P.S. §§ 5490.1 et seq.           92.056
72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq.           33.036
72 P.S. § 9414                       97.99
73 P.S. § 176                        154.077,
                                      154.092
75 P.S. § 176                        151.062
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S. Section                Code Section
2 Pa.C.S. § 551               53.171,
                               93.19
2 Pa.C.S. § 751               53.171,
                               93.19
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.     10.02,
                               51.01
8 Pa.C.S. § 1104              30.15
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5            10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324    10.99,
                               94.99
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 2301 et seq.   33.135
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.   56.01
53 Pa.C.S. § 8401 Subchapter C33.077
53 Pa.C.S. § 8424 Act 50      33.079
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.    70.01,
                               74.01
75 Pa.C.S. § 3323(b)          Ch. 75, Sch. II
75 Pa.C.S. § 6901(a)(22)      74.01
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 7301 et seq.   74.99
75 Pa.C.S. § 7311             74.13
                               
 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Section            Code Section
1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937          33.002
2 Pa.C.S.A. § 751 et seq.   97.09
8 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq. 30.19
18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4901 et seq53.200
35 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7101 et seq32.03
35 Pa.C.S.A. § 7102         32.15
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.72.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 1101 et seq74.13
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
 
Pa. Code Section Code Section
Pa. Code Section                     Code Section
                                     153.038,
25 Pa. Code § 73.15                 153.041,
                                     Ch. 153, App. G
25 Pa. Code Chapter 92a              153.037
25 Pa. Code § 92a.1                 153.020
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93               153.020
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.1             153.020
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.4a            153.003
25 Pa. Code Chapter 96               153.020
                                     150.34,
                                     150.36,
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102              153.035,
                                     153.036,
                                     153.058
25 Pa. Code § 102.4                 150.34
25 Pa. Code § 102.4(b)              153.037
25 Pa. Code § 102.11                150.34
                                     153.036,
                                     153.040,
25 Pa. Code Chapter 105              153.041,
                                     153.058,
                                     154.162
25 Pa. Code Chapter 106              153.058
25 Pa. Code Chapter 109              153.020
25 Pa. Code § 121.7                 93.20
25 Pa. Code § 123.1                 93.20
25 Pa. Code § 123.31                93.20
25 Pa. Code § 123.41                93.20
                                     152.022,
34 Pa. Code                          152.023,
                                     152.065,
                                     152.096
                                     150.15,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405 152.061,
                                     152.062,
                                     152.065
234 Pa. Code §§ 100 et seq.        153.999
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
1934-03      3- -1934    31.01
1934-03-04   3-4-1935    Ch. 75, Sch. VI
1996-05      12-16-1996  51.03
                         53.001—
                         53.004,
                         53.015—
                         53.024,
                         53.040,
                         53.041,
                         53.055—
                         53.062,
                         53.075—
                         53.083,
                         53.095—
                         53.107,
1998-10-18-A 10-19-1998  53.120—
                         53.122,
                         53.135,
                         53.150,
                         53.165—
                         53.173,
                         53.185—
                         53.187,
                         53.200,
                         53.215—
                         53.217,
                         53.230,
                         53.999
                         54.01—
                         54.03,
                         54.15—
                         54.17,
                         54.30—
1998-10-18-B 10-19-1998  54.34,
                         54.45,
                         54.60,
                         54.99,
                         Ch. 54, Table A,
                         Ch. 54, Table B
2000-01      1-3-2000    32.03
2002-02      7-1-2002    32.03
2002-03      11-4-2002   154.158
2003-01      8-4-2003    32.03
2003-05      12-1-2003   154.161
2005-02      3-7-2005    33.120,
                         33.121
2011-02      9-6-2011    32.03
                         56.01,
                         56.02,
                         56.15—
01-2013-20   1-10-2013   56.22,
                         56.35—
                         56.40,
                         56.99,
                         Ch. 56, App. A
2013-05      8-5-2013    32.02
2013-06      9-3-2013    30.16
2015-02      4-6-2015    30.01
2019-01      6-3-2019    32.03
2019-04      10-7-2019   70.08
2020-04      8-3-2020    30.03
2022-010     10-3-2022   32.03
2022-011     11-7-2022   33.145
2022-013     12-5-2022   33.156
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
19         6-2-1924    151.002
                       91.50—
19-1958    4-7-1958    91.52,
                       91.99
22-1961    7-3-1961    31.02
                       70.01—
                       70.03,
                       70.06,
                       70.07,
                       70.99,
                       71.01,
26-1962    1-7-1963    71.02,
                       71.99,
                       72.01,
                       72.02,
                       72.99,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. I
31-1964    7-6-1964    Ch. 75, Sch. II
32-1964    9-1-1964    Ch. 75, Sch. II
                       33.095—
42-1967    3-6-1967    33.108,
                       33.999
                       33.025—
51-1968    2-5-1968    33.036,
                       33.999
52-1968    3-4-1968    51.01
53-1968    3-4-1968    91.52
60-1969    6-2-1969    Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. I
66-1970    4-6-1970    Ch. 76, Sch. I
67-70      7-6-1970    Ch. 75, Sch. II
88-1973    9-10-1973   Ch. 75, Sch. II
89-1973    10-1-1973   Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. I
95-1974    8-5-1974    Ch. 76, Sch. I
                       73.01—
101-1975   1-1-1975    73.03,
                       73.99
102-1975   4-7-1975    Ch. 76, Sch. II
114-1980   - -1980     Ch. 75, Sch. III
                       130.01—
115-1980   9-2-1980    130.07,
                       130.99
                       70.01—
                       70.06,
                       70.99,
                       71.02,
121-1983   11-7-1983   72.02,
                       72.99,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                       Ch. 75, Sch. III,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. II
123-1984   10-1-1984   33.135
                       50.001,
                       50.002,
                       50.015—
                       50.017,
                       50.030,
127-1986   4-7-1986    50.031,
                       50.045,
                       50.060,
                       50.061,
                       50.075,
                       50.076,
                       50.999
130-1986   5-21-1986   150.02,
                       150.99
134-1987   7-6-1987    150.01,
                       150.99
                       50.090—
135-1988   1-4-1988    50.092,
                       50.999
                       91.35,
136-1988   5-2-1988    91.36,
                       91.99
137-1988   7-5-1988    51.02
138-1988   8-1-1988    151.001
                       93.01—
139-1988   9-6-1988    93.03,
                       93.99
149-1989   7-3-1989    Ch. 75, Sch. II
                       90.01—
150-1990   8-6-1990    90.06,
                       90.99
                       155.001—
                       155.008,
                       155.020—
                       155.031,
                       155.045—
                       155.054,
                       155.065—
                       155.072,
                       155.085—
                       155.097,
                       155.110—
–        2-4-1991    155.121,
                       155.135—
                       155.137,
                       155.150—155.159,
                       155.170—
                       155.181,
                       155.195—
                       155.199,
                       155.210—
                       155.222,
                       155.235—
                       155.243
                       154.001—
                       154.016,
                       154.030,
                       154.031,
                       154.045—
                       154.047,
                       154.060—
                       154.062,
                       154.075—
                       154.078,
                       154.090—
                       154.093,
                       154.105—
–        2-3-1992    154.109,
                       154.120—
                       154.127,
                       154.140—
                       154.142,
                       154.155—
                       154.174,
                       154.185—
                       154.189,
                       154.200,
                       154.999,
                       Ch. 154, App. A,
                       Ch. 154, App. B,
                       Ch. 154, App. C,
                       Ch. 154, App. D
154-1992   7-6-1992    30.02
157-1993   4-5-1993    155.008,
                       155.071
                       52.01—
1-159-1993 9-7-1993    52.16,
                       52.99
                       52.30—
2-159-1993 9-7-1993    52.35,
                       52.99
163-1994   1-3-1994    30.02
                       Ch. 75, Sch. IV,
164-1994   4-4-1994    151.015—
                       151.020,
                       151.999
167-1996   8-5-1996    72.03,
                       72.99
170-1997   1-6-1997    Ch. 76, Sch. I
171-1997   2-17-1997   51.03
173        10-6-1997   Ch. 76, Sch. I
                       151.055—
175        12-1-1997   151.073,
                       151.999
177        8-3-1998    32.16
                       53.001—
                       53.004,
                       53.015—
                       53.024,
                       53.040,
                       53.041,
                       53.055—
                       53.062,
                       53.075—
                       53.083,
                       53.095—
                       53.107,
                       53.120—
                       53.122,
                       53.135,
                       53.150,
                       53.165—
                       53.173,
180        12-21-1998  53.185—
                       53.187,
                       53.200,
                       53.215—
                       53.217,
                       53.230,
                       53.999,
                       54.01—
                       54.03,
                       54.15—
                       54.17,
                       54.30—
                       54.34,
                       54.45,
                       54.60,
                       Ch. 54,
                       54.99,
                       Table A,
                       Ch. 54, Table B
182        4-5-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. III
183        5-3-1999    33.075—
                       33.081
184        5-3-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. II
185        6-7-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. II
187        3-6-2000    91.20,
                       91.99
                       74.01—
188        6-5-2000    74.13,
                       74.99
                       131.01—
189        12-6-2000   131.03,
                       131.99
195-2      2-4-2002    Ch. 76, Sch. I
                       53.098,
                       55.01—
                       55.04,
197        11-4-2002   55.15,
                       55.16,
                       55.30,
                       55.31
199        1-6-2003    71.03,
                       71.99
200        2-3-2003    154.156,
                       154.158
201        5-5-2003    Ch. 76, Sch. I
202        10-6-2003   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
205        12-1-2003   150.15
                       94.01—
209        3-5-2004    94.06,
                       94.99
210        4-5-2004    150.15,
                       150.99
211        8-2-2004    53.021
2004-212   12-6-2004   154.235
                       154.077,
214        2-7-2005    154.215—
                       154.222
                       33.050—
215        2-7-2005    33.062,
                       33.999
217-2006   1-6-2006    33.059,
                       33.060
                       150.30—
218-2006   6-5-2006    150.42,
                       150.99
219-2006   7-3-2006    Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                       Ch. 76, Sch. III
220-2006   11-6-2006   32.01
223-2007   2-5-2007    155.137
224-2007   4-2-2007    74.99
                       153.001—
                       153.008,
                       153.020,
                       153.035—
                       153.041,
                       153.055—
                       153.061,
                       153.075,
                       153.090,
                       153.091,
                       153.105—
                       153.111,
                       153.125—
                       153.128,
226-2007   5-7-2007    153.140—
                       153.144,
                       153.999,
                       Ch. 153, App. A-1,
                       Ch. 153, App. A-2,
                       Ch. 153, App. B-1,
                       Ch. 153, App. B-2,
                       Ch. 153, App. C-1,
                       Ch. 153, App. C-2,
                       Ch. 153, App. C-3,
                       Ch. 153, App. C-4,
                       Ch. 153, App. C-5,
                       Ch. 153, App. D,
                       Ch. 153, App. E,
                       Ch. 153, App. F,
                       Ch. 153, App. G
228-2007   11-5-2007   33.063
231-2007   11-5-2007   71.03,
                       71.99
230-2008   1-7-2008    32.15
                       53.004,
                       53.023,
                       53.025,
                       53.095,
233-2008   3-3-2008    53.098,
                       53.106,
                       53.120,
                       53.150,
                       54.03,
                       54.45
234-2008   4-7-2008    Ch. 76, Sch. I
235-2008   5-5-2008    Ch. 75, Sch. II
                       111.01—
236-2008   12-1-2008   111.08,
                       111.99
241-2009   7-6-2009    Ch. 75, Sch. II
242-2009   10-5-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. V
246-2010   1-4-2010    30.02
247-2010   2-1-2010    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                       93.15—
248-2010   7-5-2010    93.24,
                       93.99
251-2011   7-5-2011    Ch. 75, Sch. II
252-2011   7-5-2011    53.021
253-2011   8-1-2011    33.001—
                       33.010
254-2011   10-3-2011   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
257-2012   1-3-2012    50.092,
                       50.999
258-2012   7-2-2012    Ch. 75, Sch. II
260-2013   7-1-2013    155.085—
                       155.097
                       152.001—
                       152.006,
                       152.020—
                       152.030,
                       152.045—
                       152.049,
                       152.060—
                       152.066,
262-2014   3-10-2014   152.080—
                       152.083,
                       152.095,
                       152.096,
                       152.110,
                       152.111,
                       152.125,
                       152.126,
                       152.999
263-2014   6-2-2014    155.110—
                       155.121
                       110.01—
264-2014   9-2-2014    110.08,
                       110.99
                       71.15—
265-2014   10-6-2014   71.22,
                       71.99
265-2014   10-6-2014   Ch. 75, Sch. V
                       91.01—
267-2015   1-5-2015    91.05,
                       91.99
268-2015   6-1-2015    155.067
                       92.001—
                       92.005,
                       92.020—
                       92.022,
                       92.035—
–        8-3-2015    92.040,
                       92.055—
                       92.061,
                       92.075—
                       92.084,
                       Ch. 92, App. A
                       151.035—
270-2016   10-3-2016   151.041,
                       151.999
272-2016   12-5-2016   50.092,
                       50.999
274-2017   12-4-2017   30.15
275-2018   3-5-2018    30.17
276-2018   3-5-2018    30.18
279-2019   11-4-2019   30.17
280-2019   11-4-2019   30.18
                       95.01 -
282-2020   4-6-2020    95.04,
                       95.99
283-2020   12-7-2020   Adopting Ordinance
284-2021   9-7-2021    30.19
285-2021   9-7-2021    53.016,
                       53.021
287-2021   12-6-2021   Ch. 75, Sch. II
288-2022   1-3-2022    50.092
                       96.01 -
289-2022   5-2-2022    96.08,
                       96.99
290-2022   6-6-2022    33.155
                       97.01 -
291-2022   7-5-2022    97.13,
                       97.99
                       90.20 -
293-2022   1-9-2023    90.28,
                       90.99
                       155.111,
305-2024   8-5-2024    155.115,
                       155.116
                      
 
 
