Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the Topton
Borough beginning in 2020. The table includes links to the ordinances (as
maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected (where applicable).
For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2020, please
contact the Clerk.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances

2022 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
1-2020   2-10-2020   Amending Non-Uniform Pension Plan
                     Prohibiting parking or storage of abandoned vehicles
2-2020   8-10-2020    
                     Section affected
                     Chapter 72
3-2020   6-8-2020    Adopting Ordinance
                     Restricted Parking
4-2020   9-14-2020    
                     Section affected
                     Chapter 71
                     Speed Limit
5-2020   11-9-2020    
                     Section affected
                     Chapter 71
                    
 
2021 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
1-2021   3-8-2021    General Obligation Bond
                     Stormwater Regulations
2-2021   3-8-2021     
                     Sections affected:
                     Chapter 152
                     Adopting 2018 IPMC
3-2021   4-12-2021    
                     Sections affected:
                     150.015; 150.016
                     Topton Borough Park
4-2021   5-10-2021    
                     Sections affected:
                     Chapter 92
                     Prohibiting new connections to public sewer and water not
                     approved
5-2021   7-12-2021    
                     Sections affected:
                     Adding 51.005
                     Insurance against fire losses
6-2021   9-13-2021    
                     Sections affected:
                     30.01, 30.99
                     Use and display of fireworks
7-2021   10-11-2021   
                     Sections affected:
                     93.26
                     2018 International Property Maintenance Code
8-2021   10-11-2021   
                     Sections affected:
                     150.015
                     Stop signs
9-2021   11-8-2021    
                     Sections affected:
                     Chapter 74
 
2022 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Local tax collector reporting
1-2022   1-10-2022    
                     Sections affected:
                     33.096, 33.097
                     Borough officials and employees
2-2022   3-14-2022    
                     Sections affected:
                     Adding 31.25, 31.26, 31.41, 31.42
                     Small Wireless Facilities
3-2022   4-11-2022    
                     Sections affected:
                     Adding 154.185
                     Amending Parks and Recreation
4-2022   7-11-2022    
                     Sections affected:
                     Adding 92.17
                     Amending Traffic Code regarding maximum speed limits
5-2022   11-14-2022   
                     Sections affected:
                     74.10—74.12, 74.99
                     Amending Streets and Sidewalks
6-2022   11-14-2022   
                     Sections affected:
                     94.31, 94.35, 94.41, 94.99
                     Amending Chapter 70 to preclude commercial vehicles with
                     gross vehicle wright ratings of 10,000 pounds or more onto
7-2022   11-14-2022  Borough property
                      
                     Sections affected:
                     70.08—70.10
                     Increasing base rates for sewer and water usage
8-2022   12-26-2022   
                     Sections affected:
                     53.17, 53.40
 
 
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Amending Streets and Sidewalks;Property Maintenance Code
1-2023   1-9-2023     
                     Sections affected:
                     94.02, 150.015
                     Amending Snow Emergencies
2-2023   - -2023      
                     Sections affected:
                     73.02
                     Authorizing disconnection and termination of water
                     services for failure to pay sewer and/or water charges
3-2023   10-9-2023    
                     Sections affected:
                     53.01
                    
 
TOPTON BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3-2023, passed 10-9-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 3-2020
   BOROUGH OF TOPTON,
   BERKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOROUGH OF TOPTON, BERKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA ADOPTING,
ENACTING AND ORDAINING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE BOROUGH, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING AND CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE BOROUGH DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Borough of
Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania (“Borough”) are inadequately arranged and
classified and are insufficient in form and substance for the complete
preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
Borough for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
empower and authorize the Borough to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Borough Council of the Borough has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Borough of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Borough and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, safety and
general welfare of the Borough that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it enacted and ordained by the Borough Council of the
Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania as follows:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Borough, as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form, are hereby adopted and ordained
as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Borough of Topton, Berks
County, Pennsylvania” (“Code of Ordinances”).
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   General Provisions
   31.   Borough Officials and Employees
   32.   Borough Organizations
   33.   Finance and Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Solid Waste and Recycling
   51.   Water and S ewer S ervice
   52.   Wastewater
   53.   Fees and Charges
   TITLE VII. TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Provisions
   71.   Parking Regulations
   72.   Impoundment of Vehicles
   73.   Snow Emergencies
   TITLE IX. GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Nuisances
   92.   Parks and Recreation
   93.   Fire Prevention
   94.   Street and Sidewalks
   TITLE XI. BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   Contractors
   111.   Rental Property
   112.   Peddlers
   TITLE XIII. GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   Minor Curfew
   131.   Conduct
   TITLE XV. LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations
   151.   Floodplain Management
   152.   Stormwater Management
   153.   Subdivision and Land Development
   154.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Pennsylvania Statutes
   References to Pennsylvania Code
   References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
   References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
 
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this Ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, such repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances.
   Section 4. The Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day of
its adoption and approval by the Borough Council, and the Borough Manager is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code of Ordinances in the
office of the Borough Manager.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect as
provided in Section 6, and the Code of Ordinances shall be presumptive evidence
in all courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections,
penalties and regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and
that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any
public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Borough, and shall become effective on the earliest date
permitted by applicable law.
   DULY ADOPTED, ENACTED AND ORDAINED by the Borough Council of the Borough of
Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania this 8th day of June, 2020.
   By:  /S/
      Monica D. Kunkel, President
 
   By:  /S/
      Toby C. Bower, Vice President
 
   By:  /S/
      Michelle D. Lorah, Member
 
   By:  /S/
      Caitlin A. Moll, Member
 
   By:  /S/
      Stephen B. Beck, Member
 
   By:  /S/
      K. Ray Stauffer, Member
 
   By:  /S/
      Frank E. Jost, Sr., Member
 
Approved as an Ordinance this 8th day of June, 2020.
 
     /S/
    Thomas A. Biltcliff, Mayor
MUNICIPAL CERTIFICATION
   I, Sherry Palinkas , Administrative Assistant of the BOROUGH OF TOPTON,
BERKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and
correct copy of Ordinance No. 3-2020 adopted at a regular meeting of the
Borough Council of the Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania held on
the 8th day of June, 2020.
 
[Seal]       /s/ Sherry Palinkas
      Administrative Assistant
      Borough of Topton
      Berks County, Pennsylvania
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for the Borough of Topton, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained and enacted as a single ordinance of the Borough of Topton and shall
be known and designated as the Borough of Topton Code, for which designation
“code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the Borough of Topton adopting the
Codified Ordinances of Topton, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the Borough
Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Topton, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Public Law 432 of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Topton, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Berks, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the County of Berks.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer as
appointed by the Borough Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Borough of Topton, including this code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for and act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY and BOROUGH SECRETARY. An appointed position charged with the
responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording and certifying ordinances;
attesting to the execution of documents; and is the custodian of borough
records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall not be a member of
the Borough Council and serves an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
Borough Council.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next weekday.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment
of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and resolutions,
and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions shall date
from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution. All the
provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and are hereby
reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is the intention
of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the code is hereby
reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   The Borough Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Borough Manager’s office for public use, up-to-date. All changes in the
code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this code, which the Borough Council specifically adopts as part of the
code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the changes or new
ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code book and
inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division or part thereof determined
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the borough and
shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
      Statutory reference:
   Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby. Anybody violating this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $600, plus costs of prosecution or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $600 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinance, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines, see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOROUGH OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   BOROUGH ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Use of fire insurance proceeds
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The Borough Manager, or the designee of the Borough Manager, is hereby
appointed as the designated officer who is authorized to carry out all
responsibilities and duties stated herein.
   (B)   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter the
“insuring agent”) doing business in the commonwealth shall pay a claim of a
named insured for fire damage to a structure located within the borough
(hereinafter the “municipality”) where the amount recoverable for the fire loss
to the structure under all policies exceeds $7,500, unless the insuring agent
is furnished by the Municipal Treasurer with a municipal certificate pursuant
to § 508(B) of Act 98 of 1992 as amended and unless there is compliance with §
508(C) of Act 98 of 1992 as amended and the provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Where pursuant to § 508(B)(1)(I) of Act 98 of 1992, as amended,
the Municipal Treasurer issues a certificate indicating that there are no
delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user charges against real property,
the insuring agent shall pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however,
that if the loss agreed upon by the named insured and the insuring agent equals
or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies
covering the building or structure, the following procedures must be followed:
         (a)   The insuring agent shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to
the designated officer of the municipality in the aggregate of $2,000 for each
$15,000 of a claim and for each fraction of that amount of a claim, this
section to be applied such that if the claim is $15,000 or less, the amount
transferred to the municipality shall be $2,000; or
         (b)   If at the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named
insured and the insuring agent, the named insured has submitted a contractor’s
signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or
other structure, the insuring agent shall transfer to the municipality from the
insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
      (2)   The transfer of proceeds shall be on pro rata basis by all
companies, associations or exchanges insuring the building or other structure.
      (3)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit a contractor’s
signed estimate within 60 days of the costs of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, and the designated officer shall return the
amount of the funds transferred to the municipality in excess of the estimate
to the named insured, if the municipality has not commenced to remove, repair
or secure the building or other structure.
      (4)   Upon receipt of proceeds under this section, the municipality shall
do the following.
         (a)   The designated officer shall place the proceeds in a separate
fund to be used solely as security against the total costs of removing,
repairing or securing the building or structure which are incurred by the
municipality. Such costs shall include all reasonable and customary
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the municipality in
connection with such removal, repair or securing of the building or any
proceedings related thereto.
         (b)   It is the obligation of the insuring agent when transferring the
proceeds to provide the municipality with the name and address of the named
insured. Upon receipt of the transferred funds and the name and address of the
named insured, the designated officer shall contact the named insured, certify
that the proceeds have been received by the municipality and notify the named
insured that the procedures under this section shall be followed.
         (c)   When repairs, removal or securing of the building or other
structure have been completed in accordance with all applicable regulations and
orders of the municipality and the required proof of such completion received
by the designated officer, and if the municipality has not incurred any costs
for repairs, removal or securing, the fund shall be returned to the named
insured. If the municipality has incurred costs for repairs, removal or
securing of the building or other structure the costs shall be paid from the
fund and if excess funds remain, the municipality shall transfer the remaining
funds to the named insured.
         (d)   To the extent that interest is earned on proceeds held by the
municipality pursuant to this section, and not returned to the named insured,
such interest shall belong to the municipality. To the extent that proceeds are
returned to the named insured, interest earned on such proceeds shall be
distributed to the named insured at the time that the proceeds are returned.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of
the municipality to recover any deficiency. Furthermore, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the municipality and the named insured
from entering into an agreement that permits the transfer of funds to the named
insured if some other reasonable disposition of the damaged property has been
negotiated.
   (D)   The Borough Council of the municipality may by resolution adopt
procedures and regulations to implement Act 98 of 1992 as amended and this
section and may by resolution fix reasonable fees to be charged for municipal
activities or services provided pursuant to Act 98 of 1992 as amended and this
section, including, but not limited to, issuance of certificates and bills,
performance of inspections and opening separate fund accounts.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner of property, any named insured or any insuring agent who violates
§
30.01 shall be subject to a penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 9-13-2021)
CHAPTER 31: BOROUGH OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Use of independent certified public accountants
   
31.02   School crossing guards
Borough Manager
   
31.15   Creation of office
   
31.16   Appointment, term of office and removal
   
31.17   Qualifications
   
31.18   Requirements of surety bond
   
31.19   Manager’s salary
   
31.20   Powers and duties
   
31.21   Delegation of powers of Mayor to Manager
   
31.22   Procedural limitations on the Borough Council
Borough Council
   
31.25   Council member compensation
   
31.26   Effective date
Borough Mayor
   
31.35   General powers and duties of the Mayor
   
31.36   Issuance of proclamation
   
31.37   Advertisement of proclamation
   
31.38   Effective date of proclamation/rejection by Council
   
31.39   Powers and duties of Borough Manager
   
31.40   Powers of Mayor to be nonexclusive
   
31.41   Mayor compensation
   
31.42   Effective date
Borough Employees
   
31.55   Old age and survivors insurance system
   
31.56   Changing benefits under the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 USE OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.
   (A)   The position of elected auditor(s) is hereby abolished and the Borough
Manager/Secretary is directed to do everything necessary to remove the position
from the ballot in the next election, whether primary or general, and from all
succeeding elections.
   (B)   Council will by resolution each and every year from this year forward
appoint an independent certified public accountant to audit all books and
records previously audited by elected auditors. The compensation of the
independent certified public accountant shall be as agreed upon between Council
and the independent certified public accountant.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 31.02 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 1127 of the Act of February 1, 1966 (1965 P.L. 1656, No.
581) as amended, (June 22, 2000, P.L. 325, No. 34) the borough hereby allows
the Board of School Directors to assume the hiring and administration of the
school crossing guards. The police force having jurisdiction in the borough
shall provide such training or assistance of the school crossing guards while
on duty, as deemed necessary by the officer having control of training and
oversight of police having jurisdiction in the borough or his/her designee,
from time to time. Such school crossing guards shall be authorized only in the
management of traffic and pedestrians in and around areas identified by the
police force having jurisdiction in the borough and the School District
Superintendent or his or her designees.
   (B)   The school crossing guards shall not come within the civil service
provision of the Act above referred to, nor shall they fall under the
bargaining unit of the school district nor be considered an employee as defined
under § 1101-A of the Act of March 10, 1949 (P.L. 30, No. 14) known as the
Public School Code of 1949, being 24 P.S. Ch. 1, or a school employee as
defined under 24 Pa.C.S. § 8102 (relating to definitions), or under any plans
hereafter effective.
   (C)   The Brandywine Heights Area School District shall assume the cost of
compensation, including fixing such compensation, if any, of the school
crossing guards. Auxiliary police officers, appointed as prescribed by general
law, may be hired by the school district to serve as school crossing guards.
The Board of School Directors shall notify the Borough Council of those hired
to serve as school crossing guards and shall further hold the borough harmless
from and indemnify the borough from any and all claim or claims made, suits,
judgments or recovery of any nature or kind resulting from the action or
actions or lack thereof by or on account of any such school crossing guard,
designated or appointed by the school district pursuant to this section, and
shall provide to the borough an agreement providing for such indemnification.
(Ord. 6-03, passed 8-18-2003)
BOROUGH MANAGER
§ 31.15 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   Pursuant to § 1141 of the Borough Code (8 Pa.C.S.A. § 1141), the office of
Borough Manager is hereby created by the Borough Council, subject to the right
of the Borough Council to abolish said office at any time and/or for any reason
by ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.16 APPOINTMENT, TERM OF OFFICE AND REMOVAL.
   The Borough Manager shall be appointed or elected for an indefinite term by
a majority vote of all members of the Borough Council. The Manager shall serve
at the pleasure of the Council, and may be removed at any time by a majority
vote of all members of the Borough Council; provided, however, that the Borough
Council shall have the right, in its discretion, to enter into a contract of
employment with the Borough Manager setting forth the terms and conditions of
his or her employment. The Borough Manager may be removed without cause. At
least 30 days before such removal is to become effective, the Council shall
furnish the Manager with a written statement setting forth its intention for
removal. Likewise, the Manager shall furnish the Council, at least 30 days
before resigning, with a written statement setting forth the intention to
resign.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.17 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Borough Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her
executive and administrative abilities and qualifications, with special
reference to the duties of the office as herein outlined. The Manager need not
be a resident of the borough at the time of his or her appointment or during
his or her tenure in office.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.18 REQUIREMENTS OF SURETY BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Borough Manager shall give a
bond to the borough with an approved surety company in an amount to be
determined by the Borough Council conditioned upon the faithful performance of
all duties of the position. The premium for said bond shall be paid by the
borough.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.19 MANAGER’S SALARY.
   The Borough Manager shall receive such compensation as shall be established,
from time to time, by the Borough Council by ordinance or by resolution.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.20 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Borough Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
borough, and he or she shall be responsible to the Borough Council as a whole
for the proper and efficient administration of the affairs of the borough
placed in his or her charge. The powers and duties of administration of all
borough business shall be vested in the Manager, unless expressly imposed or
conferred by statute, ordinance or resolution upon other borough officers or
officials.
   (B)   Subject to recall or amendment by subsequent ordinance or resolution
of the Borough Council, the powers and duties of the Borough Manager shall
include the following.
      (1)   The Borough Manager shall supervise and be responsible for the
activities of all municipal departments, except such departments the
supervision of which shall not have been delegated to the Manager by the Mayor
or by the Council, as the case may be. Nothing in this provision is intended,
however, to apply to the office of the Borough Solicitor or Borough Engineer or
to supervision of the Police Department in the absence of a delegation of
authority from the Mayor.
      (2)   The Borough Manager shall recommend to Borough Council candidates
for hiring of personnel who will be under his or her supervision, when Council
has agreed to fill such positions.
      (3)   The Borough Manager shall make recommendations to Borough Council
with respect to discipline and discharge of personnel under his or her
supervision.
      (4)   In the event of suspected serious misconduct of an employee under
his or her supervision, the Borough Manager may, after consultation with the
President of Borough Council (or the Vice President of Borough Council in the
event of absence or incapacity of the President of Borough Council), and
consultation with the Borough Solicitor, suspend an employee pending the
outcome investigation of the alleged misconduct, provided that the Manager
shall report at the next meeting thereafter of the Council and action taken by
authority of this section.
      (5)   The Manager shall recommend to Borough Council wages, salaries and
benefits of all personnel under his or her supervision.
      (6)   The Manager shall prepare and submit to the Council, before the
close of each fiscal year, a budget for the next fiscal year and an explanatory
budget message in such a timely fashion as will enable the Borough Council to
consider and adopt the budget and related tax ordinances according to the
requirements of law. In preparing the budget, the Manager, or an officer
designated by him or her, shall obtain estimates of revenues and expenditures
and such other supporting data as is required. The Manager shall review such
estimates and may revise them before submitting the budget to the Council.
      (7)   The Manager shall be responsible for the administration of the
budget after its adoption by the Council.
      (8)   The Manager shall, at the request of Borough Council develop long-
range fiscal plans for the municipality, to be presented as requested by
Borough Council for its review and adoption. No borough funds shall be expended
in the development or preparation of such long-range plans without the express
approval of Borough Council.
      (9)   The Manager shall hold other borough offices and head such borough
departments as the Borough Council may, from time to time, direct, unless
holding such office or position is declared incompatible by statute.
      (10)   The Manager shall attend all meetings of Borough Council and its
committees with the right to take part in the discussions, and he or she shall
receive notice of all special meetings of the Council and its committees.
      (11)   The Manager shall prepare the agenda for each meeting of the
Council and supply facts pertinent thereto.
      (12)   The Manager shall keep the Borough Council informed as to the
conduct of the borough affairs; submit monthly reports on the condition of the
Borough finances and such other reports as the Borough Council requests; and
make such recommendations to the Borough Council as he or she deems advisable.
      (13)   The Manager shall submit to the Borough Council, not more than 30
days after the close of the fiscal year, a report on the finances and
administrative activities of the borough for the preceding year. This report
shall include the beginning balances for each account at the beginning of the
fiscal year, revenues and expenditures through the fiscal year, the end-of-year
balance for each account and any other information requested by Borough
Council.
      (14)   The Manager shall see that the provisions of all franchises,
leases, permits and privileges granted by the Borough Council are observed, and
shall immediately bring any complaints or problems regarding the same to the
attention of Borough Council.
      (15)   The Manager shall supervise the performance and faithful extension
of contracts entered into by the borough, except insofar as such duties are
expressly imposed by statute upon some other borough officer.
      (16)   The Manager shall see that all money owed the borough is promptly
paid and, in conjunction with Borough Council and the Borough Solicitor, ensure
that the proper proceedings are taken for security and collection of the
borough’s claims.
      (17)   The Borough Manager shall serve as the purchasing officer of the
borough and purchase, in accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code,
all supplies and equipment for the agencies, boards, departments and other
offices of the borough. The Manager shall keep an account of all purchases and
shall, from time to time, or when directed by the Council, make a full written
report thereof. The Manager shall also issue rules and regulations, subject to
the approval of the Borough Council, governing the procurement of all municipal
supplies and equipment.
      (18)   All complaints regarding borough services shall be referred to the
office of the Manager. The Manager or an officer designated by the Manager
shall investigate and dispose of such complaints, and the Manager shall report
thereon to the Council.
      (19)   The Borough Manager shall perform such duties as may be, from time
to time, conferred upon the Borough Manager by ordinance, resolution, motion or
directive of Borough Council.
      (20)   The Borough Manager shall be responsible for ensuring the
operation, repair and maintenance of the borough’s vehicles.
      (21)   The Borough Manager shall be responsible for ensuring the
maintenance, repair and upkeep of the physical equipment of the borough.
      (22)   The Borough Manager shall cooperate with the Borough Council, at
all times, and in all matters that the best interest of the borough and the
general public may be served and maintained.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.21 DELEGATION OF POWERS OF MAYOR TO MANAGER.
   With the approval of Borough Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized to
delegate to the Borough Manager, subject to revocation by written notification
at any time, any of the Mayor’s nonlegislative and nonjudicial powers and
duties as the Mayor deems appropriate.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 31.22 PROCEDURAL LIMITATIONS ON THE BOROUGH COUNCIL.
   Other than for the purposes of inquiry, the Borough Council, any of its
members or any of the borough committees or its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the Manager, and neither the Borough
Council, any of its members, or any of the borough committees or its members
shall give orders, publicly or privately, to any subordinate of the Manager.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 2-8-2016)
BOROUGH COUNCIL
§ 31.25 COUNCIL MEMBER COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of each member of Borough Council is hereby fixed at $1,875
per year, payable in 12 equal installments of $156.25 per month, the borough
having a population of less than 5,000.
(Ord. 02-2022, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 31.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These compensation amounts shall take effect for each member of Borough
Council as each individual member begins his or her initial or new term of
office first following the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 02-2022, passed 3-14-2022)
BOROUGH MAYOR
§ 31.35 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   Powers.
      (1)   Oaths and affirmations. The Mayor may administer oaths and
affirmations in matters pertaining to borough affairs.
      (2)   Emergencies.
         (a)   In addition to the power granted to mayors by 35 Pa.C.S. Part V
(relating to emergency management services) and in order to enable the Mayor to
effectually preserve the public peace within the borough, the Mayor shall have
the power to prevent and suppress mobs, riots and unlawful and tumultuous
assemblies.
         (b)   In the event that a state of emergency exists, the Mayor shall
have the authority to request aid and assistance from law enforcement officers
and agencies from a neighboring municipality.
         (c)   In response to a request of a mayor made in accordance with this
subsection, municipal police officer shall, within the borough from which the
request was made, have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
Commonwealth or otherwise perform the functions of that office as if enforcing
those laws or performing those functions within the territorial limits of the
officer’s primary jurisdiction, subject to the limitations and conditions set
forth in 42 Pa.C.S. § 8953(b), (c), (d) and (e) (relating to state-wide
municipal police jurisdiction).
         (d)   If the Mayor considers that a state of emergency exists, the
Mayor may issue a proclamation, which shall be in writing and posted in one or
more conspicuous places and the contents of which shall be made available to
all news media, declaring a state of emergency for a period not to exceed seven
days unless sooner rescinded, modified or ratified or extended by resolution of
Council.
         (e)   The Mayor may prohibit in the proclamation for all or part of
the borough:
            1.   Any person being on the public streets or in the public parks
or at any other public place during the hours declared by the Mayor to be a
period of curfew;
            2.   The entry or departure of persons into or from any restricted
area;
            3.   The sale, purchase or dispensing of any commodities or goods
as designated by the Mayor;
            4.   The transportation, possession or use of gasoline, kerosene or
other combustible, flammable or explosive liquids or materials except in
connection with the normal operation of motor vehicles, normal home use or
legitimate commercial use; and
               5.   Any other activities as the Mayor reasonably believes
should be prohibited to help preserve life, health, property or the public
peace.
         (f)   The proclamation shall describe the specific restricted area
with particularity and shall specify the hours when restrictions are to be in
effect.
         (g)   A person violating the proclamation of emergency commits a
summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not to
exceed $300 and costs or to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   Duties. The Mayor shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To preserve order in the borough, to enforce the ordinances and
regulations, to remove nuisances, to exact a faithful performance of the duties
of the officers appointed, and to perform any other duties as shall be vested
in the Mayor’s office by law or ordinance;
      (2)   Except as provided in 8 Pa.C.S.A. § 1006(4) (relating to duties of
Council), to sign papers, contracts, obligations and documents as may be
required by law; and
      (3)   To collect any costs and fees received and to pay the money into
the treasury, except as provided in 8 Pa.C.S.A. § 10A05(b) (relating to
salaried Mayor not to receive certain fees), to report to the Council from time
to time on the state of the borough and to make recommendations to the Council
on matters of borough concern. The borough shall furnish the Mayor with the
necessary dockets, books, forms, and files as are necessary for the conduct of
the Mayor’s office and which shall be and remain the property of the borough
and be surrendered to the Mayor’s successor in office.
§ 31.36 ISSUANCE OF PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   In order to exercise any authorization hereinabove granted to the
Mayor by §
31.35, the Mayor shall issue a proclamation setting forth the proposed action.
   (B)   In addition to setting forth therein the proposed action, the
proclamation shall state that said action shall not be effective for 30 days,
during which period of time the proclamation shall be subject to review and
approval by the Council of the borough.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
§ 31.37 ADVERTISEMENT OF PROCLAMATION.
   Before the Mayor shall take any action in accordance with the enumerated
powers hereinabove set forth in §§
31.35 and
31.36, the Mayor shall first cause his or her proposed proclamation to be
advertised in a newspaper of general circulation within the borough at least 30
days prior to the effective date of the proposed proclamation. In addition, at
least 30 days prior to the effective date of the proposed proclamation, the
Mayor shall also give the full text thereof to the Council of the borough.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
§ 31.38 EFFECTIVE DATE OF PROCLAMATION/REJECTION BY COUNCIL.
   The proposed proclamation by the Mayor shall become effective only in the
event that the Council of the borough does not adopt a resolution within the
30-day period referred to in §
31.36 rejecting and nullifying the proposed proclamation of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
§ 31.39 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOROUGH MANAGER.
   The Borough Manager is hereby authorized and directed to take such actions
as may be necessary to effectuate any proclamation issued by the Mayor pursuant
to this subchapter after such proclamation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
§ 31.40 POWERS OF MAYOR TO BE NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The powers granted to the Mayor by the provisions of this subchapter shall
not be exclusive, and nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the Borough
Council from time to time taking such action as it may so desire as concerns
any of the police powers hereinabove enumerated.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
§ 31.41 MAYOR COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor is hereby fixed at $2,500 per year, payable in
12 equal installments of $208.33 per month, the borough having a population of
less than 5,000. [Maximum is $2,500 / year, in accordance with Section 10A04(a)
(1) of the Borough Code.]
(Ord. 02-2022, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 31.42 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These compensation amounts shall take effect for the Mayor as the Mayor
begins his or her initial or new term of office first following the adoption of
this section.
(Ord. 02-2022, passed 3-14-2022)
BOROUGH EMPLOYEES
§ 31.55 OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The borough is hereby authorized to execute and deliver to the state
agency a plan or plans and agreement required under § 6 of said enabling Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq. and the Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
401 et seq. to extend coverage to employees and officers of the borough and to
do all other necessary things to effectuate coverage of employees and officers
under the Old Age and Survivors Insurance System.
   (B)   The Borough Secretary is hereby authorized to establish a system of
payroll deduction to be matched by payments by the borough to be made into a
contribution fund of the Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq.
through the office of the state agency, and to make charges of this tax to the
fund or funds from which wage or salary payments are issued to employees of the
borough. Such payments are to be made in accordance with the provisions of the
law and regulations promulgated by the state agency and the Federal Security
Administrator. Such payments which are delinquent shall bear interest at the
rate of 0.5% per month until such time as payments are made.
   (C)   An appropriation is hereby made from the proper fund or funds of the
borough in the necessary amount to pay into the contribution fund as provided
in § 4 of the Enabling Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq. and in accordance
with the plan or plans and agreement. Authority is given to the Council and the
Borough Secretary to enter into an agreement with the state agency, which
agreement shall be in accordance with Act No. 491 and with paragraph 218 of the
Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq., which plan and agreement
shall provide that the participation of the borough shall commence as of
January 1, 1953.
(Ord. 274, passed 1-1-1953)
§ 31.56 CHANGING BENEFITS UNDER THE PENNSYLVANIA MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT LAW.
   (A)   The borough, being a member municipality of the Pennsylvania Municipal
Retirement System (the System), hereby elects to change its member benefits in
that System as authorized by the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, being
53 P.S. § 881.101, as amended, and does hereby agree to be bound by all the
requirements and provisions of said article and the law, as the case may be,
and to assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member
municipalities by said amendment, as the case may be. All references hereafter
shall be based on benefits negotiated between the Pennsylvania Municipal
Retirement Board (the Board) and the borough under the provisions of Article IV
of the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, being 53 P.S. § 881.101.
   (B)   Membership in the System shall be mandatory for all full-time
municipal employees of the borough. Membership for elected officials, part-time
employees not currently members and employees hired on a temporary or seasonal
basis is prohibited, as is membership for individuals paid only on a fee basis.
   (C)   Credit for prior service for original members is granted for each year
or partial year thereof that the member was employed by the borough from
original date of hire as long as there is continuous, uninterrupted employment
to the borough. Benefits provided to members in the agreement dated August 10,
2009 (the “agreement”), shall accrue based on all credited service granted and
earned in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the agreement between the Board and the Borough Council shall be made by
the Borough Council in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement
Law and Act 205 of 1984, being 53 P.S. § 881.101, the Municipal Pension Plan
Funding Standard and Recovery Act, being 53 P.S. § 895.101.
   (E)   As part of this section, the borough agrees that the System shall
provide the benefits set forth in the agreement. The passage and adoption of
this section by the borough is an official acceptance of said agreement and the
financial obligations resulting from the administration of said benefit
package. The borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created
or which may be created due to the acceptance of the benefit structure outlined
in the above-referenced agreement.
   (F)   The borough intends this section to be the complete authorization of
the borough’s municipal pension plan and it shall become effective and
specifically repeal Ord. 1-1995 either immediately or on July 1, 2009, which is
the effective date of the agreement, whichever is later.
(Ord. 6-2009, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of any proclamation issued by
the Mayor pursuant to §§
31.35 through
31.40 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine as set forth in the
fee schedule approved from time to time by resolution of the Borough Council,
plus costs.
(Ord. 2-01, passed 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 32: BOROUGH ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Recreation Committee
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Composition of Committee
   
32.03   Terms
   
32.04   Officers
   
32.05   Compensation
   
32.06   Bylaws
   
32.07   Donations, grants, gifts
   
32.08   Reporting
Planning Commission
   
32.35   Establishment
   
32.36   Ability to make and alter rules and regulations
Fire Department
   
32.50   Authority to see reimbursement for hazardous material, environmental
incidents and fire, safety and rescue responses
   
32.51   Payment for special equipment and materials used to control and/or
extinguish chemical spills
 
   
32.99   Penalty
RECREATION COMMITTEE
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under the Borough Code of the
commonwealth, it is the considered judgment of the Borough Council that
adequate public recreation programs and facilities for the borough would be
best advanced by the establishment of a Recreation Committee (“Committee”).
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Committee shall consist of nine voting members to be appointed as
follows.
   (B)   Nine voting members shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Borough Council member;
      (2)   Recreation Director;
      (3)   Borough Manager;
      (4)   Representative of Brandywine Youth Baseball Association as
appointed by its Board;
      (5)   Representative of Brandywine Girls Softball League as appointed by
its Board;
      (6)   Representative of Topton Torpedoes swim team as appointed by its
Board;
      (7)   Representative of Brandywine Community Task Force as appointed by
its Board;
      (8)   One member-at-large, who is a resident of the borough, who shall be
nominated by the Borough Manager to be appointed by the Borough Council to
serve; and
      (9)   One member-at-large who is a member of the School Board or other
resident of the Brandywine Heights School District, who is nominated by the
President of the Brandywine Heights School Board, and appointed by Borough
Council to serve.
   (C)   Non-voting members may be established and asked to attend as needed.
   (D)   All voting members shall be over the age of 18.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.03 TERMS.
   (A)   Members shall serve terms as follows:
      (1)   The two members-at-large shall serve for a term of three years;
      (2)   The Borough Council representative shall serve for a term of two
years;
      (3)   The Brandywine Community Task Force representative shall serve for
a term of two years;
      (4)   The representatives of the Topton Torpedoes swim team, the
Brandywine Girls Softball League and the Brandywine Youth Baseball Association
shall each serve for a term of two years; and
      (5)   The Borough Manager and the Borough Recreation Director shall serve
as long as they are employed in those respective capacities by the borough.
   (B)   All persons appointed shall serve their full term unless they
voluntarily resign or are removed by a majority vote of either the appointing
body (e.g., Borough Council, School Board or voluntary association) or Borough
Council for malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office or for other just
cause after the member has received 15 days’ advance notice of the intent to
take such a vote. Any appointment made to fulfill a vacancy shall be only for
the unexpired term.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.04 OFFICERS.
   At the January regular meeting, or the first scheduled meeting of an even
year, the Committee shall elect from its voting members, a Chair and Secretary,
who shall serve for a 24-month period beginning at the January regular meeting
and running through the end of their stated term or until such time as a
successor has been appointed. The Chair will preside over all meetings. The
Secretary shall be responsible for establishing the agenda for all meetings and
keeping minutes of meeting activities, discussions and actions.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.05 COMPENSATION.
   Committee members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed by
the borough or their appointing municipality, board or organization for
expenses incurred in performing their duties, based upon the Committee bylaws
and the laws and regulations of the appointing body.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.06 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Committee are attached to Ord. 4-2018 as Exhibit “A” and
are incorporated herein as if set out in full and are the governing regulations
for the existence and operations of the Committee. Additionally, the Committee
may adopt rules and regulations which are not inconsistent with its bylaws and
with this subchapter for the conduct of all business within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.07 DONATIONS, GRANTS, GIFTS.
   The Committee may not apply for or accept any grant, or accept any gift,
bequest, donation of services, equipment, real estate or money from any
individual or group, to be used as specified by the donor, by the terms of
acceptance or contract without the approval of the Borough Council. The
Committee shall have no authority to incur any obligation binding upon the
borough.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 32.08 REPORTING.
   The Committee shall keep minutes of its meetings which shall be submitted to
the Borough Council. The Committee shall not in any manner obligate the Borough
Council for the payment of any funds unless they are so appropriated by the
governing bodies.
(Ord. 4-2018, passed 6-11-2018)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Council of the borough hereby creates a Borough Planning Commission to
consist of five members, each of which shall be a resident of the borough.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-3-1966)
§ 32.36 ABILITY TO MAKE AND ALTER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commission may make and alter rules and regulations for its own
organization and procedure consistent with the ordinance of the borough and the
laws of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-3-1966)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.50 AUTHORITY TO SEE REIMBURSEMENT FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL
INCIDENTS AND FIRE, SAFETY AND RESCUE RESPONSES.
   (A)   The Borough Council by and through its authority and relationship with
the Borough Volunteer Fire Company hereby recognizes the authority and
authorizes the Borough Volunteer Fire Company to recover the reasonable costs
of firefighting materials, equipment, personnel hours and hazardous abatement
materials involving any hazardous material incident, or fire, or safety and
rescue incident or operation, including vehicular accidents.
   (B)   Said reasonable costs may be recovered directly by the Volunteer Fire
Company, through the borough with the consent of the Borough Council, or
through the third party billing service known as PA Fire Recovery Services or
any successor to that organization as an authorized agent for the collections
of said reasonable costs. The utilization of PA Fire Recovery Services shall be
for those situations deemed by PA Fire Recovery Services as appropriate for
collections through the agency, principally those incidents involving the use
of hazardous abatement materials and/or incidents directly involving the County
Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   In addition to the aforementioned reasonable costs, the Volunteer Fire
Company of the borough or PA Fire Recovery Services shall be authorized to
collect reasonable interest, as well as a reasonable administrative fee for
collecting the same, and any and all additional fees as may be authorized by
the hazardous material and Emergency Planning and Response Act, being 35 P.S.
Ch. 29E, or authorized by any other statute, case law or common law.
   (D)   The Volunteer Fire Company and Financial Invoicing Resources Engaged,
Inc. shall indemnify and hold the borough harmless for any action taken on
behalf of the Volunteer Fire Company and/or PA Fire Recovery Services by the
borough.
(Ord. 3-02, passed 10-11-2002; Ord. 5-2009, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 32.51 PAYMENT FOR SPECIAL EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS USED TO CONTROL AND/OR
EXTINGUISH CHEMICAL SPILLS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of petroleum and/or chemicals products and/or the
common carrier of any type whatsoever, including a pipe line carrying said
chemicals, shall be liable to the borough for the cost of special equipment
and/or materials used to control and/or extinguish petroleum type or chemical
type spills and/or fires involving said chemical or petroleum products in the
borough.
      (2)   The said special equipment and/or materials include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Foam;
         (b)   Dry chemical extinguisher;
         (c)   Sand; and/or
         (d)   Any other equipment and/or material or materials deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief of the Borough Fire Company or the officer in
charge.
   (B)   (1)   Bills for the amount of the above-described costs shall be
forwarded by the Fire Chief or his or her delegate to the Borough Manager, who
shall bill the above-described liable party.
      (2)   If payment is not made in full within 30 days from the date of
mailing of said bill, the Borough Manager shall refer the matter to the
Solicitor for collection.
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 7-9-1990) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing to pay the said bill submitted to him or her by the
borough for the use of special equipment and materials used to control and/or
extinguish chemical spills within 30 days, shall upon conviction thereof in a
summary proceeding before a district justice pay a fine of not less than $200
or more than $600, together with the proven cost of the materials and equipment
used to contain the spill or fire and the cost of prosecution.
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 7-9-1990)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Local taxpayers bill of rights
   
33.002   Tax rate
   
33.003   Rates of discounts and penalties on taxes imposed by the borough
   
33.004   Per capita tax
Earned Income Tax
   
33.015   Definitions
   
33.016   Imposition of tax
   
33.017   No exemption from tax
   
33.018   Individual returns and payments
   
33.019   Employer withholding, remittance and tax returns
   
33.020   Tax Collector
   
33.021   Interest, penalties, costs and fines
   
33.022   Authorization
Fire Protection Tax
   
33.035   Authority of enactment
   
33.036   Imposition of fire tax
   
33.037   Administration and enforcement
   
33.038   Collection
Local Services Tax
   
33.050   Title
   
33.051   Definitions
   
33.052   Levy of tax
   
33.053   Exemption and refunds
   
33.054   Duty of employers to collect
   
33.055   Returns
   
33.056   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
33.057   Self-employed individuals
   
33.058   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation or employed in more
than one political subdivision
   
33.059   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
33.060   Administration of tax
   
33.061   Suits for collection
Realty Transfer Tax
   
33.075   Definitions
   
33.076   Imposition of tax
   
33.077   Exempt parties
   
33.078   Excluded transactions
   
33.079   Documents relating to associations or corporations and members,
partners, stockholders or shareholders thereof
   
33.080   Acquired company
   
33.081   Credits against tax
Reporting and Payment
   
33.095   Title
   
33.096   Definitions and interpretation
   
33.097   Tax collection and reporting schedule; Tax Collector compensation
   
33.098   Legal authority for enactment
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 LOCAL TAXPAYERS BILL OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   The rules and regulations attached to Ord. 2-1999 as “Schedule 1”, and
incorporated herein as if set out in full, are hereby approved and adopted.
   (B)   The disclosure statement, substantially in the form set forth in
Schedule 2 of Ord. 2-1999, and incorporated herein as if set out in full, is
hereby approved and adopted.
   (C)   The form of petition for appeal and refund, substantially in the form
set forth in Schedule 3 of Ord. 2-1999, and incorporated herein as if set out
in full, is hereby approved and adopted.
   (D)   The governing body hereby determines that administrative appeal
procedures relating to petitions for appeal and refund submitted by taxpayers
in connection with the assessment, determination or refund of an eligible tax
under the Local Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights shall be undertaken by a Hearing
Officer.
   (E)   The administrative appeal procedures set forth in the rules and
regulations and substantially in the form set forth in Schedule 4, of Ord. 2-
1999, and incorporated herein as if set out in full, are hereby approved and
adopted.
   (F)   This section shall become effective in accordance with the provisions
of law and shall be applicable to eligible taxes on the earliest date required
by law.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 12-13-1999)
§ 33.002 TAX RATE.
   A tax be and the same is hereby levied on all real property within the
borough, subject to taxation for the fiscal year 2020, as follows: tax rate for
general purposes, the sum of 6.4 mills on each dollar of assessed valuation, or
the sum of $6.40 of each $1,000 of assessed valuation, with a fire tax of 1.15
mills on each dollar of assessed valuation, or the sum of $1.15 on each $1,000
of assessed valuation, for a total of 7.55 mills, or the sum of $7.55 on each
$1,000 of assessed valuation.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 6-2018, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 5-2019,
passed 12-9-2019)
§ 33.003 RATES OF DISCOUNTS AND PENALTIES ON TAXES IMPOSED BY THE BOROUGH.
   (A)   Every taxpayer subject to the payment of taxes assessed by the borough
shall be entitled to a discount of 2% from the amount of such tax upon said
taxpayer making payment of the whole amount thereof within two months after the
date of the tax notice.
   (B)   Every taxpayer who shall fail to make payment within four months after
the date of the tax notice of any tax assessed against said taxpayer by the
borough shall be charged a penalty of 10% which penalty shall be added to the
taxes by the Tax Collector of the borough and shall be collected by said Tax
Collector.
   (C)   This section shall become effective for the 1977 tax year and shall be
effective for each tax year thereafter.
(Ord. 1-1976, passed 12-6-1976)
§ 33.004 PER CAPITA TAX.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         INHABITANT. An individual domiciled in the Borough of Topton, Berks
County, Pennsylvania.
         PERSON. Includes natural persons.
         RESIDENT. An individual domiciled in the Borough of Topton, Berks
County, Pennsylvania.
      (2)   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall
include the feminine.
   (B)   The following tax is hereby imposed for the general borough purposes
for the calendar year 1973 and for each calendar year thereafter without annual
reenactment: $5 per person on each inhabitant or resident of the borough who is
18 years of age or over on January 1 of the calendar year for which the tax is
imposed.
   (C)   The per capita tax levied and assessed by the within this section
shall be in addition to all other taxes levied and assessed by the borough.
   (D)   Said per capita tax shall be collected and the payment thereof
enforced by the duly elected or appointed Tax Collector of the borough in the
same manner and at the same time as other borough taxes are collected, as
provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended and supplemented.
   (E)   The expenses of collection and compensation of the Tax Collector for
the collection of the said per capita tax shall be the same as fixed from time
to time by the Borough Council for the collection of borough taxes.
   (F)   The Tax Collector shall demand, receive and collect the per capita tax
provided for herein from all residents and individuals liable for the payment
of same, and in so doing shall have all of the powers conferred upon him or her
by the Act of General Assembly of Pennsylvania, No. 511, approved December 31,
1965, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, being 53 P.S. § 6924.101, as amended
and supplemented. The Tax Collector shall allow discounts from and add
penalties to the amount of tax owing, and shall remit such taxes and penalties
to the Borough Treasurer by separate statement at the same time as other taxes
are remitted to the borough, as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of
1945, as amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 8-1972, passed 12-4-1972)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 33.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All terms defined in the Local Tax Enabling Act shall have the
meanings set forth therein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
      COLLECTOR. The Berks County Tax Collection Commission, d/b/a Berks County
Earned Income Tax Collection Bureau.
      ENACTMENT. This subchapter.
      EFFECTIVE DATE. January 1, 2012.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Council of the Borough of Topton.
      LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT. The Local Tax Enabling Act, as set forth in 53
P.S. §§ 6901 et seq. while such numbering and provisions remain in effect under
Act 32 of 2008, and as set forth in 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq. when such
numbering and provisions become effective under Act 32, and as amended in the
future.
      ORDINANCE. This Ord. 2011-3 of the Borough of Topton, Berks County,
Pennsylvania.
      TAX. All local earned income taxes, other taxes, penalties, interest and
costs that the Collector collects on behalf of the Taxing Authority under the
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.101, et seq., or other statutory law.
      TAXPAYER. An employer or taxpayer that is liable for tax.
      TAX RETURN. A form prescribed by the Collector for reporting the amount
of tax or other amount owed or required to be withheld, remitted, or reported
under this subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
      TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 to December 31.
      TAXING AUTHORITY. The Borough of Topton.
      TCC. The tax collection committee established to govern and oversee the
collection of earned income tax within the TCD under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
      TCD. Any tax collection district to which the taxing authority or any
part of the taxing authority is assigned under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 4-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 33.016 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   General purpose resident tax. The taxing authority hereby imposes a
tax for general revenue purposes at the rate of 1% on earned income and net
profits of individual residents of the taxing authority.
   (B)   General purpose municipal nonresident tax. The taxing authority also
imposes a tax for general revenue purposes at the rate of 1% on earned income
and net profits derived by an individual who is not a resident of the taxing
authority from any work, business, profession or activity of any kind engaged
in within the boundaries of the taxing authority.
   (C)   Ongoing tax. The tax shall continue at the above rates during the
current tax year and each tax year thereafter, without annual ordinance, until
this subchapter is repealed or the rate is changed.
   (D)   Combined tax rate applicable to residents. Currently, the total rate
applicable to residents of the taxing authority, including the tax imposed by
the school district and municipality in which the individual resides, is 1%.
   (E)   Municipal tax rate applicable to nonresidents. Currently, the total
rate applicable to nonresidents working within the taxing authority based on
the municipal nonresident tax rate is 1%.
   (F)   Local Tax Enabling Act applicable.
      (1)   The tax is imposed under authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
and all provisions thereof that relate to a tax on earned income or net profits
are incorporated into this subchapter.
      (2)   Any future amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act that are
required to be applied to a tax on earned income or net profits will
automatically become part of this subchapter upon the effective date of such
amendment, without the need for formal amendment of this subchapter, to the
maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
   (G)   Applicable laws, regulations, policies and procedures.
      (1)   The tax shall be collected and administered in accordance with:
         (a)   All applicable laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Policies and procedures adopted by the TCC or by the Collector.
      (2)   This includes any regulations, policies and procedures adopted in
the future to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.017 NO EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   Although credits and deductions against tax are permitted under certain
circumstances as provided in applicable law and regulations, no individuals are
exempt from tax based on age, income or other factors.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.018 INDIVIDUAL RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   Every individual receiving earned income or earning net profits in any tax
year shall file tax returns and pay tax in accordance with the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.019 EMPLOYER WITHHOLDING, REMITTANCE AND TAX RETURNS.
   Every employer shall register, withhold and remit tax, and file tax returns
in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.020 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The tax will be collected from individuals and employers by the Collector.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.021 INTEREST, PENALTIES, COSTS AND FINES.
   Individuals and employers are subject to interest, penalties, costs and
fines in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act, including costs imposed by
the Collector in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 33.022 AUTHORIZATION.
   The taxing authority and the Collector hereby authorize the engagement of a
third party collection agency to pursue and collect delinquent tax in
situations where the amount of delinquent tax owed is relatively small and it
is therefore cost-prohibitive for the Collector to dedicate the upfront
resources necessary to pursue such delinquent tax. The Taxing Authority hereby
approves of the imposition on and collection of a fee from any delinquent
taxpayer by any third party collection agency engaged by the Collector,
provided such fee does not exceed 25% of the amount of tax collected from any
such taxpayer. Such authorization is pursuant to the Municipal Claims and Tax
Lien Act 53 P.S. § 7101 et seq.
(Ord. 4-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
FIRE PROTECTION TAX
§ 33.035 AUTHORITY OF ENACTMENT.
   This subchapter is enacted under authority of the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§
46301 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of the state.
(Ord. 10-2009, passed 12-28-2009)
§ 33.036 IMPOSITION OF FIRE TAX.
   A tax for the purchase of fire engines, fire apparatus and fire hoses for
the use of the borough, or for assisting any fire company in the borough in the
purchase, renewal or repair of any of its fire engines, fire apparatus or fire
hoses, for the purposes of making appropriations to fire companies both within
and without the borough and of contracting with adjacent municipalities or
volunteer fire companies therein for fire protection, for the training of fire
personnel and payments to fire training schools and centers or for the purchase
of land upon which to erect a fire house, or for the erection and maintenance
of a fire house or fire training school and center or fire houses, in the
amount of 0.2 mills is hereby imposed upon all real property situated in the
borough in the year 2010, and each succeeding calendar year in which this tax
is in effect.
(Ord. 10-2009, passed 12-28-2009)
§ 33.037 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Tax Collector shall collect and receive the taxes, interest, fines and
penalties imposed by this subchapter and shall maintain records showing the
amounts received and the dates such amounts were received. The Tax Collector
shall prescribe and issue all forms necessary for the administration of the tax
and may adopt and enforce regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-2009, passed 12-28-2009)
§ 33.038 COLLECTION.
   The Tax Collector shall collect by suit or otherwise, all taxes, interest,
costs, fines and penalties due under this subchapter and unpaid. If for any
reason, any tax is not paid when due, penalty at the rate of 6% per year on the
amount of unpaid taxes and additional interest of 0.5% of the amount of the
unpaid tax, for each month or fraction of month during which the tax remains
unpaid shall be added and collected. Whenever suit is brought for the recovery
of unpaid tax, the taxpayer shall, in addition, be liable for the cost of
collection as well as for interest and penalties. The Tax Collector may accept
payment under protest of the tax claimed by the borough, in any case where any
person disputes the borough claim for the tax. If a court of competent
jurisdiction thereafter decides that there has been overpayment to the Tax
Collector, such Tax Collector shall refund the amount of the overpayment to the
person who paid under protest. Any action instituted for such judicial
determination shall be instituted within two years of the last day of the
period for which the tax is disputed or claim made. All refunds shall be made
in conformity with the procedure prescribed by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 10-2009, passed 12-28-2009)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 33.050 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Borough of Topton
Local Services Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH OF TOPTON or BOROUGH. The area within the corporate limits of the
Borough of Topton.
   COLLECTOR. The person, public employee or private or semi-public agency
designated by the borough to collect and administer the tax imposed herein.
   DCED. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME. Compensation as this tern is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, P.L. 1257, 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing, one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM. Indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the borough.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession or
other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, carried on or performed
within, the corporate limits of the borough for which compensation is charged
or received, whether by means of salary, wages, commission or fees for services
rendered.
   TAX. The local services tax of $52.
   TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.052 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2008, upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with a primary place of employment within the borough during the tax
year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of time
during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may
be allocated by the Borough Council from time to time:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; or
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to
homestead property exclusion).
   (C)   The borough shall use no less than 25% of the funds derived from the
tax for emergency services. This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any
kind or nature heretofore levied by the borough. The tax shall be no more than
$52 on each person for each calendar year, irrespective of the number of
political subdivisions within which a person may be employed.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.053 EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exemption.
      (1)   Any person whose total earned income and net profits from all
sources within the borough is less than $12,000 for any calendar year in which
the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax for that calendar year.
      (2)   In addition, the following persons are exempt from payment of the
tax:
         (a)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which
the United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability; and
         (b)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2)(b), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED
FORCES shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve,
United States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United
States Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the
Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
shall annually file an exemption certificate with the borough and with the
person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the borough of less than
$12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. In
the event the borough utilizes a Tax Collection Officer, it shall provide a
copy of the exemption certificate to that Officer. The exemption certificate
shall have attached to it a copy of all the employee’s last pay stubs or W-
2 forms from employment within the borough for the year prior to the fiscal
year for which the employee is requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon
receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise instructed by the
borough or except as required by division (B)(2) below, the employer shall not
withhold the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of
the calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the borough that the person has received earned income and net profits from
all sources within the borough equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption
for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person of earned
income within the borough in an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services tax from the
person under division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2)
above, the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year. The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period
after receipt of the notification under division (B)(2) above, a lump sum equal
to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this division (B)(3), plus the per payroll amount
due for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll
period for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the
same amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a
person subject to withholding of the tax under this division (B)(3) is
subsequently severed in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any
outstanding balance of tax due, and the borough may pursue collection under
this subchapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, it is the intent of
this division (B) that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any
employee from a local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The Borough Manager, in consultation with the Collector and
DCED, shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any
tax paid by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be
in accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The Borough Manager or the Collector shall
determine eligibility for refunds to exempt persons and provide refunds.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.054 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the borough as well as those employers situated
outside the borough but who engage in business within the borough, is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting the tax from each of his or her employees
engaged by him or her or performing for him or her within the borough, and
making a return and payment thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is
hereby authorized to deduct this tax from each employee in his or her employ,
whether said employee is paid by salary, wage or commission and whether or not
all such services are performed within the borough.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the combined rate of the tax
levied for the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by
the employer for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata
share, an employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each
payroll period to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax
shall be made on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the
person is engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below.
For purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate
annual rate of the tax levied by the school district and the borough.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person may be employed. The borough shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of
payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the borough if the failure to
withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as
to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s principal
office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an employer
shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §
33.053(B) and this section and remits the amount so withheld in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.055 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this subchapter, the employer
shall be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had
been originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.056 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.057 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the borough shall be required to comply with this subchapter and pay the
pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day
following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.058 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is concurrent employment,
or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one political
subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect the local
services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision; and
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.059 NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the borough but who perform services of any type or kind
or engage in any occupation or profession within the borough do, by virtue
thereof, agree to be bound by and subject, themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the borough. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the borough and an employee of a
nonresidential employer may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered
a self-employed person, and in the event his or her tax is not paid, the
borough shall have the option of proceeding against either the employer or
employee for the collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.060 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the Borough Council.
It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive payments of this
tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or her from
each employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax was
received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
Borough Council approval, to prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter, including provisions for the examination of
payroll records of any employer subject to this subchapter, the examination and
correction of any return made in compliance with this subchapter and any
payment alleged or found to be incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed
or found to have occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
Collector shall have the right to appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of the
county as in other cases provided.
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 33.061 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual, liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 33.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this commonwealth, the
United States or any other state, territory or foreign country, or dependency.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers, demises,
vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other instruments or
like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release thereof to the
debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless due consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years or instruments which solely grant, vest or confirm a public
utility easement. DOCUMENT shall also include a declaration of acquisition
required to be presented for recording under §
33.079.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION.
      (1)   A corporation of which at least 75% of its assets are devoted to
the business of agriculture, and at least 75% of each class of stock of the
corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
      (2)   The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
         (a)   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing;
         (b)   The raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
         (c)   Fur farming;
         (d)   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations; or
         (e)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole blood.
   PERSON. Every natural person, association, or corporation. Whenever used in
any section prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term
PERSON as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any lands, tenements or hereditaments within the borough, including
without limitation buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals, oil, gas,
quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees and other
improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage or law pass with a
conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery and equipment
in an industrial plant;
      (2)   A condominium unit; and
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate 90% or more of the
ownership in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      (1)   Derives 60% or more of its annual gross receipts from the ownership
or disposition of real estate; or
      (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life insurance or
perpetual leasehold; or
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessor
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more a
leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE.
      (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length
for actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor,
paid or to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing
before the transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying
indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where
such liens or other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged
against other real estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth
a nominal consideration, the VALUE therefor shall be determined from the price
set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale;
      (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon judgment or upon the
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties or the real estate of an acquired company,
the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting the
assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for the
common level ratio of assessed values to market values of the taxing district
as established by the State Tax Equalization Board, or a commensurate part of
the assessment where the assessment includes other real estate;
      (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determinable under divisions (1) or (2) above, the actual
monetary worth of such interest; or
      (4)   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principal of the grantor or a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.076 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, or for or in respect of the
vellum, parchment or paper upon which such document is written or printed, a
local tax at the rate of 1% of the value of the real estate represented by such
document, which local tax shall be payable at the earlier of the time the
document is presented for recording or within 30 days of acceptance of such
document or within 30 days of becoming an acquired company that has been
conveyed or transferred within the borough’s territory regardless of where the
instruments making the transfers are made, executed or delivered, or where the
transaction took place.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.077 EXEMPT PARTIES.
   The United States, the commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax
imposed by this subchapter. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall
not, however, relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the
tax.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.078 EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by §
33.076 shall not be imposed upon:
      (1)   A transfer to the commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which reconveyance is made
within one year from the date of condemnation;
      (2)   A document which the commonwealth is prohibited from taxing under
the Constitution or statutes of the United States;
      (3)   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district or
county or a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale;
      (4)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest;
      (5)   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property, passed by testate or intestate succession and held
by covenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess;
      (6)   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or spouse of a brother or sister and brother or sister or the spouse of a
brother or sister, and between grandparent and grandchild or the spouse of such
grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee within one year
shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such transfer;
      (7)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent’s devisee or heir;
      (8)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee or
an ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if
the transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries;
      (9)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to
a beneficiary of an ordinary trust;
      (10)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee;
      (11)   (a)   A transfer:
            1.   For no or nominal actual consideration between principal and
agent or straw party; or
            2.   From or to an agent or straw party where, if the agent or
straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be imposed under this
subchapter.
         (b)   Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or
statement of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the
grantee from, or for the benefit of, his or her principal, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the property is the property of the grantee in his
or her individual capacity if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation
under this division (A)(11).
      (12)   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation
of a corporation or statutory division of a non-profit corporation, except
where the department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such
merger, consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this
subchapter;
      (13)   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held
of record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than two years;
      (14)   A transfer from a non-profit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a non-profit
industrial development agency or authority;
      (15)   A transfer from a non-profit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if:
         (a)   The grantee shall directly use such real estate for the primary
purpose of manufacturing, fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing,
research and development, transportation, energy conversion, energy production,
pollution control, warehousing or agriculture; and
         (b)   The agency or authority has the full ownership interest in the
real estate transferred.
      (16)   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person;
      (17)   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes;
      (18)   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, (68A Stat. 3), 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities;
      (19)   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture
to a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns
at least 75% of each class of the stock thereof;
      (20)   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company or family farm corporation;
      (21)   A transaction wherein the tax due is $1 or less; and
      (22)   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas
or minerals and assignments thereof.
   (B)   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true,
full and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas or minerals, the statement of value
may be limited to an explanation of the reason such document is not subject to
tax under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.079 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
33.077, documents which make, confirm or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this subchapter, corporations and associations are entities
separate from their members, partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.080 ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change:
      (1)   Does not affect the continuity of the company; and
      (2)   Of itself or together with prior changes has the effect of
transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of the total ownership
interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the Recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 33.081 CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by a builder or residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is demised by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the demise shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover shall be allowed.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-12-1987)
REPORTING AND PAYMENT
§ 33.095 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Topton Local
Tax Collector Reporting and Payment Ordinance”.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 33.096 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton.
   TAX COLLECTOR. Every person duly elected or appointed to collect all borough
taxes authorized pursuant to the Act of May 25, 1945, P.L. 1050 et seq., as
amended September 8, 1959, P.L. 806 et seq., 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq., and as
amended from time to time, known as the Local Tax Collection Law.
   TAXES. Includes all taxes levied and assessed by the borough, including but
not limited to: real estate, per capita, fire, and ambulance/emergency medical
services.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 33.097 TAX COLLECTION AND REPORTING SCHEDULE; TAX COLLECTOR COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Payment reporting schedule. The Tax Collector for the borough, for the
months of March, April, and May of each calendar year, shall furnish a report
to the Borough Treasurer by the tenth day of each of the aforesaid months, and
during the aforesaid period, the Tax Collector shall remit to the Borough
Treasurer all monies received during the preceding week on each Friday of the
aforesaid months of March, April, and May of each calendar year. During every
other month of the year, namely June, July, August, September, October,
November, December, January, and February, the Tax Collector shall furnish a
report by the tenth day of each of the aforementioned calendar months and remit
to the Borough Treasurer all monies received from the last payment date on the
tenth day of each month. All reports provided by the Tax Collector under this
section shall be true and verified reports to the Borough Treasurer.
      (1)   Such reports shall set forth the names of the taxable person, the
amount collected from each person, the discounts granted or penalties assessed
to each person, if any, and the total amount of taxes received, discounts
granted and penalties applied.
      (2)   These reports shall be submitted to the Treasurer on a Tax
Collector's report form provided by the borough. The Tax Collector shall also
use this form to differentiate between real estate taxes, other taxes and
municipal assessments.
   (B)   Required reports of Tax Collector. The Tax Collector shall provide
statements as follows:
      (1)   The Tax Collector shall prepare an annual statement summarizing the
taxes collected for the year. The annual statement shall be submitted to the
Treasurer on or before the thirty-first day of January of each year. The annual
statement shall be submitted to the Treasurer on the Annual Report form
provided by the borough. All municipal assessments of $1 or less shall not be
billed.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the close of each calendar year, the Tax
Collector shall file an annual report as required by law.
   (C)   Compensation of Tax Collector. The compensation of the Tax Collector
is ratified and confirmed and shall have full force and effect until amended in
the future, with compensation as follows:
      (1)   The Tax Collector shall receive a commission of 2% of all taxes
collected during the discount period and shall receive a commission of 5% of
all taxes collected during the flat rate or penalty period.
      (2)   The Tax Collector shall provide written tax certifications
concerning the payment or nonpayment of borough real estate taxes upon request
by the public. The Tax Collector may assess, collect and retain, as
compensation for providing certification of payment or nonpayment of taxes, a
fee of $20 for each such certification provided. In addition, the Tax Collector
may charge a fee of $2.00 for each duplicate tax bill provided and a fee of $10
more than the amount charged by the Tax Collector's financial institution for
all returned checks.
      (3)   In addition to the aforesaid compensation, the Tax Collector shall
be paid actual and necessary expenditures for printing, postage, books, blanks,
forms and other like items.
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 33.098 LEGAL AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT.
   This subchapter is adopted under and by virtue of the authority contained in
the Act of General Assembly approved on May 25, 1945 (Local Tax Collection
Law), P.L. 1050, as amended, 72 P.S. §§ 55.11.1 et seq.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
33.050 through
33.061, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his
or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
33.050 through
33.061 shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30
days. The action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who shall have
failed or who refuses to file a return required by §§
33.050 through
33.061.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of §§
33.095 through
33.098 or any regulation or requirement pursuant thereto and authorized hereby
shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty
not to exceed $300 for each offense.
(Ord. 5-1984, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. 4-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
      
52.   WASTEWATER
      
53.   FEES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
Solid Waste
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Accumulation of municipal waste prohibited
   
50.03   Method of disposal
   
50.04   Containers required
   
50.05   Storage of municipal waste
   
50.06   Removal by licensed haulers
   
50.07   Proof of contract required
   
50.08   Duties of licensed haulers
   
50.09   Compost piles and recycling
Recycling
   
50.20   Intent
   
50.21   Definitions
   
50.22   Dumping; litter
   
50.23   Separation of recyclables
   
50.24   Removal of residential municipal waste and recyclables
   
50.25   Removal of commercial, municipal, institutional and community municipal
waste and recyclables
   
50.26   Recycling reports for multi-family housing, commercial, municipal,
institutional properties
   
50.27   Private haulers recycling reports
   
50.28   Collection by unauthorized person
   
50.29   Presumption of ownership of municipal recyclables
   
50.30   Transportation of municipal waste
   
50.31   Authorization of private haulers
   
50.32   Private hauler to provide recyclable removal service for residential,
multi-family housing, commercial, municipal and institutional establishment and
properties
   
50.33   No grant of vested right
   
50.34   Private hauler not to accept unlawfully disposed or recyclables
   
50.35   Community oriented charitable activities
   
50.36   Illegal to burn recyclables
   
50.37   Recycling coordinator
   
50.38   Construction
 
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   LICENSED HAULER. Any owner of a waste transportation vehicle licensed under
Pennsylvania Act 90, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste and
other material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from the operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities; and sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under this section from a
municipal, commercial or institutional water supply treatment plant, wastewater
treatment plant or air pollution control facility.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in real estate in the borough or otherwise having control of
the property, including the guardian of an estate of such person and the
executor or administrator of the estate of such person.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or other group acting as a
unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures thereon.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 50.02 ACCUMULATION OF MUNICIPAL WASTE PROHIBITED.
   All exterior property and premises and the interior of every structure shall
be free from any accumulation of municipal waste.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 METHOD OF DISPOSAL.
   The occupants of a structure shall dispose of all municipal waste in a clean
and sanitary manner by placing such municipal waste in approved containers.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The owner of every dwelling shall supply approved leak-proof, covered,
outside garbage containers of sufficient number so that all municipal waste of
all of the occupants of the premises can dispose of their municipal waste in a
garbage container and so that no municipal waste is stored by any occupant of
the premises outside of a garbage container at any time.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 STORAGE OF MUNICIPAL WASTE.
   The owner of any premises shall provide at all times approved leak-proof
containers with close-fitting covers for the storage of municipal waste until
such time as the municipal waste is removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 REMOVAL BY LICENSED HAULERS.
   Every owner in the borough shall contract with an individual, entity or firm
which is a licensed hauler by the commonwealth to have all the municipal waste
generated on the premises by any of the occupants of the premises removed and
deposited in a permitted landfill on a weekly basis or more often.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 50.07 PROOF OF CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   Whenever requested by the borough, the owner of any real estate within the
borough shall present proof adequate in the judgment of the borough designee
that the owner of said real estate has a current contract with a licensed
hauler to dispose of municipal waste generated on the premises on a weekly
basis or more often. The owner of the premises shall have 72 hours to provide
proof to the borough designee that he or she has a current contract with a
licensed hauler to provide sufficient service to satisfy the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 50.08 DUTIES OF LICENSED HAULERS.
   Any hauler picking up municipal waste in the borough shall be required to
advise the borough in writing within 72 hours after request from the borough as
to whether an owner has a current contract for municipal waste disposal from
his or her premises within the borough. Furthermore, all licensed haulers shall
cooperate with the borough designee in providing information in the event that
an action is instituted to enforce the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 50.09 COMPOST PILES AND RECYCLING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the terms of this subchapter, compost piles kept by
occupants or tenants of a structure shall not violate the terms and conditions
of this subchapter, provided that the materials in the compost piles do not
generate any offensive odors and provided further that said compost piles are
secure so that animals do not spread the materials from the compost piles
around the premises.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall supersede the provisions of any
ordinance of the borough requiring recycling of certain materials as set forth
in §§
50.20 through
50.38. It is the intent of the borough that §§
50.20 through
50.38 shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 INTENT.
   This subchapter shall provide a mandatory recycling program in the borough.
It contains regulations applicable to collectors of municipal waste, collectors
of recyclables, individuals, commercial, municipal and institutional
establishments.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED COLLECTOR. A private hauler with an Act 90, being 35 P.S. §
6018.101 license (as defined herein), or a person who, being so authorized by
the terms of this subchapter, who removes municipal waste or recyclables from
his or her own premises, as owner of the building or commercial, municipal or
institutional establishment or community activity conducted therein, or as an
agent of another person.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   CARDBOARD. Any structural paper material with an inner core shaped in rigid
parallel furrows and ridges.
   COLLECTOR. A general term referring to any person who collects, for removal
from premises, municipal waste or recyclables.
   COMMERCIAL. Of, or pertaining to, any wholesale, retail industrial,
manufacturing, transportation, financial or professional service or office
enterprise, business or establishment.
   COMMUNITY ACTIVITY. Events sponsored in whole or in part by a municipality,
or conducted within a municipality and sponsored privately, which include, but
are not limited to, fairs, bazaars, socials, picnics and organized sporting
events that will be attended by 200 or more individuals per day.
   COMPOSTING. The process of the biological decomposition of organic solid
waste being biologically decomposed under controlled anaerobic or aerobic
conditions to yield humus like product.
   CURBSIDE. That location at the edge of any lot, parcel or piece of and
adjacent to a public right-of- way or roadway, and which location is most
accessible and/or convenience to any authorized collector, as defined by this
subchapter, for the purpose of collecting municipal waste and/or recyclables.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION. A method of collection of residentially generated
recyclables by which the owners or occupants of certain residential properties
place them at curbside at a time designated by an authorized collector for
collection and removal thereof for delivery to a recycling center.
   DESIGNATED RECYCLABLES. Cardboard and paper products, plastics 1-7, clear
and colored glass containers, metal food and beverage cans and containers, leaf
waste, and other materials, which shall be determined from time to time by
resolution, to be recyclable materials which shall be separated from trash,
garbage and refuse for recycling.
   DISPOSAL. The incineration, deposition, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking or placing of municipal waste into or on the land or water in a manner
such that the municipal waste or a constituent thereof enters the environment,
is emitted into the air or is discharged to the waters of the commonwealth.
   DISPOSAL AREA. Any site, location, area, building, structure, transfer
station or premises to be used for municipal waste disposal.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal and vegetable matter resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GLASS CONTAINERS. All empty food and beverage jars or bottles, the product
being transparent or translucent (clear, green or brown). Expressly excluded
are non-container glass, window or place glass, light bulbs, blue glass and
porcelain and ceramic products.
   HIGH GRADE PAPER. Bond copier, letterhead or mimeograph paper typically sold
as “white ledger” paper, and computer paper.
   INSTITUTIONAL. Of, or pertaining to, any establishment engaged in service to
persons including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, schools,
universities, churches and social or fraternal societies and organizations.
   LANDLORD. The owner of residential property, made subject to a lease, or
such owner’s authorized agent.
   LEAF WASTE. Leaves, garden residues, shrubbery and tree trimmings, and
similar material, but not including grass clippings.
   MAGAZINES. Printed matter, also known as PERIODICALS, containing
miscellaneous written pieces published at fixed or varying intervals, printed
on glossy or chemically coated paper. Expressly excluded are newspapers and all
other paper products of any nature whatsoever.
   METAL AND ALUMINUM CANS. Includes all disposable, recyclable containers
fabricated primarily of aluminum, metal or bimetal and commonly used for
beverages, fruits, vegetables and other liquid or dry matter, but specifically
excludes aerosol cans.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A type of residential property either under single
ownership or organized as a condominium or cooperative form of housing, which
contains four or more dwelling units.
   MUNICIPAL. Of, or pertaining to, any office or other property under the
control of any branch or arm of the federal government of the United States of
America, the commonwealth or any political subdivision of the commonwealth
including, but not limited to, the borough and/or any counties, cities,
boroughs, townships and municipal authorities.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial, lunchroom or office waste
and other materials, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material, resulting from operation of residential, municipal or commercial or
institutional establishments, or from community activities and which are not
classified as residual or hazardous waste, except farm produced manure, other
agricultural waste and food processing used on land where such materials will
improve the condition of the soil, the growth of crops or the restoration of
the land for the same purposes, and any sludge not meeting the definition of
“residual or hazardous waste,” as defined in the State Solid Waste Management
Act. The term does not include source-separated recyclable materials or yard
waste.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE LANDFILL. Any facility that is designed, operated, used and
or maintained for the disposal of municipal waste. The term shall not include
any facility that is used exclusively for disposal of construction/demolition
waste or sludge from sewage treatment plants or water supply treatment plants.
   NEWSPAPER. Paper of the type commonly referred to as “newsprint” and
distributed at fixed or stated intervals, usually daily or weekly, having
printed thereon news and opinions and containing advertisements and other
matters of public interest. The term NEWSPAPER expressly excludes glossy
advertising inserts, magazines, glossy or other chemically coated paper, office
paper and any other paper products of any nature.
   PERSON. Any agent, individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, municipality, municipal authority, federal
government or agency, state institution or agency, or any other legal entity
whatsoever which is recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In
any provisions of this subchapter prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty,
or any combination of the foregoing, the term PERSON shall include the officers
and directors of any corporation or other legal entity having officers and
directors.
   PLASTIC. Human-made materials composed of large molecules called polymers.
Specifically, HDPE, high density polyethylene, commonly used as plastic gallon
milk jugs or PETE, polyethylene terephthala, commonly used for soda bottles.
   PRIVATE HAULER. A person licensed by the commonwealth as per the amended
Pa.C.S. Title 27 (Environmental Resources), Waste Transportation Safety
Program, and licensed under Act 90, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101 to collect, haul
and transport municipal waste and recyclables. All such haulers shall comply
with the provisions of Title 27 of Act 90, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101 and all
other applicable federal, state, county and local laws and regulations.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials designated as recyclable in this subchapter, or
required by the terms of this subchapter (or any amendment hereto) to be kept
separate from municipal waste and recycled. The term includes yard waste (as
defined herein) (which is treated differently as it can be composted).
   RECYCLING FACILITY.
      (1)   A facility employing a technology and/or a process that separates
or classifies municipal waste and creates or recovers reusable materials that
can be sold to or reused by a manufacturer as a substitute for or a supplement
to virgin raw materials.
      (2)   The term RECYCLING FACILITY shall not mean transfer stations or
landfills for solid waste nor compositing facilities or resource recovery
facilities. The term does not include:
         (a)   Any composting facility;
         (b)   Methane gas extraction from a municipal waste landfill;
         (c)   Any separation and collection center, drop-off point or
collection center for recycling, or any source-separation or collection center
for comporting yard waste; or
         (d)   Any facility, including all units in the facility with a total
processing capacity of less than 50 tons per day.
   RUBBISH. Solid waste exclusive of garbage (e.g., non-recyclable glass,
metal, paper or plastic) and non-compostable plant material, wood or
nonputrescible solid waste.
   STEEL CANS. Empty food or beverage containers made of steel, tin coated
steel or ferrous metal food or beverage containers.
   STORAGE. The containment of any municipal waste on a temporary basis in such
a manner as not to constitute disposal of such municipal waste. It shall be
presumed that the containment of any municipal waste in excess of one year
constitutes disposal. This presumption may be overcome only by clear and
convincing evidence to the contrary.
   TRANSFER STATION. A facility that receives and processes or temporarily
stores municipal or residual waste at a location other than the generation site
and which facilitates the transportation or transfer of municipal or residual
waste to a processing or disposal facility. The term includes a facility that
uses a method or technology to convert part or all of such waste materials for
off-site refuse. The term does not include collection or processing center that
is only for source-separated recyclable materials, including clear glass,
colored glass, aluminum, steel and bimetallic cans, high-grade office paper,
newsprint, corrugated paper and plastic. Nor does the term include the
centrally designated location of a development where agents of the lot’s owners
have gathered the waste from the development for collection by a private
hauler.
   TRANSPORTATION. The removal from any site or location of any municipal waste
or recyclable materials at any time after generation thereof.
   WASTE. A material whose original purpose has been completed and which is
directed to a disposal or processing facility or is otherwise disposed of. The
term does not include source-separate recyclable materials, yard waste or
material approved by the State Department of Environmental Protection for
beneficial use.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, leaves and brush (i.e., small branches, twigs) from
general yard maintenance. YARD WASTE does not include materials generated by
tree removal, land clearing or home renovation projects.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.22 DUMPING; LITTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, dump, discard or
deposit, or to permit the storage, dumping, discarding or depositing of any
municipal waste or recyclables upon the surface of the ground or underground
within the borough, except in proper containers for purposes of storage or
collection, and except where the waste or recyclables are of such size or shape
as not to permit their being placed in such containers. It shall be unlawful
for any person to dump or deposit any municipal waste or recyclables in any
stream, body of water or on any public right-of-way within the borough.
Backyard composting which is done so as not to create a public nuisance is
excepted from this provision.
   (B)   All owners of commercial, institutional and municipal establishments
in the borough shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent the deposit and
accumulation of debris on their premises. Such owner or operator may place
appropriate waste containers on the sidewalks in front of or adjacent to his or
her premises at a point that will not create a hazard to traffic or
pedestrians. Any such receptacles so placed shall be emptied on a regular basis
and maintained in a neat and clean appearance.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit a duly constituted property
owners association or corporation from assembling municipal waste or
recyclables at a central, accessible location, provided such activities are
conducted and confined within the boundaries of that real estate development or
subdivision, as defined herein, lawfully recorded and recognized as such.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit a farmer from carrying out the
normal activities of his or her farming operation, including composting and
spreading of manure or other farm produced agricultural waste, provided such
activities be conducted in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (E)   Bulk containers shall not be permitted to overflow or to have waste
strewn or left about them on the ground. A violation of this provision shall be
deemed a violation of this subchapter by the person on whose property the bulk
container is located, if it is located on private property.
   (F)   No waste or recyclables shall be allowed to either accumulate on the
ground or be disposed of on highways, borough streets, vacant lots or other
property, nor be thrown in any stream or other body of water.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   The owners and occupants of all residential properties, the sponsor(s)
of all community activities and all commercial, municipal, and institutional
establishments shall recycle designated recyclables which shall be kept
separate from municipal waste for the purpose of recycling.
   (B)   Yard waste must be kept separate from municipal waste, for the purpose
of backyard composting or permitted recycling facility. Recyclables shall not
be placed in the same garbage can or other container as, or mixed with,
municipal waste for collection, removal or disposal,
   (C)   Recyclables must be set out for collection in a manner designated by
an authorized collector as approved by the borough, or delivered to a licensed
recycling facility.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 REMOVAL OF RESIDENTIAL MUNICIPAL WASTE AND RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   All owners or occupants of residential properties shall enter into
contract with a licensed private hauler to collect municipal waste at curbside
or some appropriate location on the premises, designated by the private hauler,
to be collected at times designated by the private hauler. A copy of the
contract shall be maintained for a minimum of one calendar year. Those who
dispose of his or her own municipal waste shall obtain weigh slips and shall
maintain records of every disposal (and the weigh slips for same) for period of
at least one calendar year for review by the borough upon request for same.
Failure to maintain such records shall constitute a violation of the terms of
this subchapter (in addition to any other violations). Any owner or occupant of
a residential property who arranges to dispose of his or her municipal waste
with another who has made arrangements in accordance with this division (A)
must have a written agreement with that other party documenting the arrangement
and establishing that the other party is in compliance with the requirements of
this subchapter. The frequency of collecting municipal waste from or by the
owners of residential properties shall be not less than once per calendar
month.
   (B)   All owners or occupants of residential properties shall dispose of
recyclables according to the procedures designated by the private hauler or
recycling facility and shall create and maintain a written record for review by
the borough of any disposal of recyclables (identifying the date of any
disposal, the quantity disposed and the place of disposal, including any
documentation made available the facility providing for the collection of
recyclables establishing such disposal). Failure to keep a written record
regarding the disposal of recyclables shall be a separate violation of the
terms of this subchapter (in addition to any other violations).
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 REMOVAL OF COMMERCIAL, MUNICIPAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND COMMUNITY MUNICIPAL
WASTE AND RECYCLABLES.
   All owners or occupants of commercial, municipal and institutional
establishments shall enter into contracts with a licensed private hauler to
collect municipal waste and recyclables separately from the premises,
designated by the private hauler, to be collected at times designated by the
private hauler. The frequency of such collection shall not be less than once
per calendar month. Any sponsor of a community activity shall have a
contractual or other written arrangement for the collection of recyclables from
the community activity.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.26 RECYCLING REPORTS FOR MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING, COMMERCIAL, MUNICIPAL,
INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTIES.
   The landlord of every multi-family housing property and every commercial,
municipal and institutional establishment shall complete a form to be
designated “recycling report” to be provided by the borough, which shall
indicate where the property’s recyclables were delivered or picked up by whom.
Such report shall provide information on the type and amount of each material
recycled.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.27 PRIVATE HAULERS RECYCLING REPORTS.
   All private haulers shall submit to the borough a recycling report and all
weigh slips obtained from the facility or facilities to which the recyclables
were delivered or taken. The said weigh slips shall indicate the weight of all
recyclables collected from within the borough. Each such quarterly recycling
report shall be submitted on or before the last day of the first month of each
quarter, for the preceding quarter. Quarters shall run on a calendar year
basis, thus: January through March; April through June; July through September;
and October through December.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.28 COLLECTION BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   From the time of placement of residentially generated recyclable items for
collection in accordance with the terms of this subchapter, the items shall be
and become the property of the private hauler. It shall be a violation of this
subchapter for any person unauthorized by the borough to collect or pick up or
cause to be collected or picked up any such items. Any and each such collection
in violation hereof from one or more locations shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL RECYCLABLES.
   The presence of any articles containing a person’s name among municipal
waste and recyclables shall create a refutable presumption, for purposes of
this subchapter that said municipal waste or recyclables are, or were, the
property of the person whose name is found therein.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 TRANSPORTATION OF MUNICIPAL WASTE.
   Any person transporting municipal waste within the borough shall prevent or
remedy any spillage or leakage/prevention of leakage from vehicles or
containers used in the transport of such municipal waste.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 AUTHORIZATION OF PRIVATE HAULERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except for litter control and/or
roadside clean up personnel, and other persons licensed by the commonwealth as
per the amended Pa.C.S. Title 27 (Environmental Resources), Waste
Transportation Safety Program and Act 90, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101, to collect,
haul or transport municipal waste and recyclables. All such haulers shall
comply with the provisions of Title 27 and Act 90, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101, as
well as all federal, state, county and local laws and regulations to collect
and to transport waste of any nature or recyclables within or from the borough.
Authorization to collect, transport and for proper disposition of municipal
waste or recyclables for persons other than one’s self or for whom one is
acting as agent (as defined in this subchapter) may be given only by the state
through the issuance of a collector’s license.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a duly organized and registered
property owners association from assembling municipal waste at a central,
accessible location within the confines of its development for ultimate
collection as required herein.
   (C)   All private haulers shall register with the borough and certify
compliance with the requirements of Title 27 and Act 90, being 35 P.S. §
6018.101, along with other information as shall be required by the borough to
be set forth in a resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 PRIVATE HAULER TO PROVIDE RECYCLABLE REMOVAL SERVICE FOR RESIDENTIAL,
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING, COMMERCIAL, MUNICIPAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT AND
PROPERTIES.
   All private haulers contracted for municipal waste collection shall offer
such customers (residential, multi-family, commercial, municipal and
institutional) the service of removing recyclables from their properties at the
curbside or an appropriate location on the premises. Any such materials so
removed by a private hauler shall be kept separate from municipal waste and
shall be taken to a facility for the purpose of recycling. Failure to offer
said services shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 NO GRANT OF VESTED RIGHT.
   The issuance of a collector’s license by the commonwealth shall not grant
vested right to any collector or a continued right to haul or collect municipal
waste, recyclables or yard waste in the borough.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.34 PRIVATE HAULER NOT TO ACCEPT UNLAWFULLY DISPOSED OR RECYCLABLES.
   No private hauler shall accept, pick up or remove any bag or other container
of municipal waste which the private hauler knows, or has reason to believe,
contains recyclables, combined with municipal waste placed at curbside or
otherwise placed for pickup, and the private hauler shall affix a tax or
sticker or take other appropriate means to identify any container containing
recyclables.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 COMMUNITY ORIENTED CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES.
   Nothing contained herein shall impair or prohibit any recognized civic,
fraternal, charitable or benevolent organization, association or society from
undertaking or sponsoring voluntary programs or projects involving the
collection of recyclables from the public. Any such collection activity can
only occur prior to the recyclable materials being placed at curbside or
similar location for collection by a private hauler. Prior to initiating such
activity, the organization shall advise the Borough Secretary and obtain
authorization from Borough Council.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.36 ILLEGAL TO BURN RECYCLABLES.
   It shall hereafter be illegal to burn recyclables, except where said burning
falls under exceptions to applicable law, including, but not limited to, the
borough’s open burning regulations, as codified in §§
93.01 through
93.08 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37 RECYCLING COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Borough Council shall at the bi-annual organizational meeting in
January designate for the upcoming two years, the appointment of a recycling
coordinator.
   (B)   The duties of the recycling coordinator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Devising and implementing a residential and business recycling
education program;
      (2)   Arranging for the participation of the borough in county programs
for the recycling of special materials;
      (3)   Devising and implementing a program to address illegal dumping and
littering; and
      (4)   Monitoring participation by owners and occupants of residential,
commercial, municipal and community establishments; receiving recycling
reports; receiving complaints; and advising the Borough Council and Code
Official and Quality of Life Appeals Officer on issuing warnings and penalties.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.38 CONSTRUCTION.
   The various headings used throughout this subchapter are intended only as an
aid in its organization, in order to facilitate ease of reading, and are not to
be considered a substantive part of this subchapter. In this subchapter, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the singular shall include the plural;
the plural shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the
feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the terms or conditions of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$300 and/or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both. Each day
that a violation continues after notice of the violation has been served shall
be deemed to be a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Prosecution for alleged violation of §§
50.20 through
50.38 shall be brought by the borough in the same manner as summary criminal
proceedings under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure. Upon conviction
thereof by a magisterial district judge of a violation of §§
50.20 through
50.38, the defendant shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $35 and
not more than $300, plus costs of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees of the
borough, and, in default of payment thereof, shall be imprisoned not more than
five days. Each day that a violation of §§
50.20 through
50.38 continues or each section of §§
50.20 through
50.38, which shall be found to have been violated, shall constitute a separate
offense. For purposes of §§
50.20 through
50.38, the doing of an act or thing prohibited by any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.38 or the failure to do any act or thing or to which any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.38 creates an affirmative duty shall constitute a violation of §§
50.20 through
50.38, punishable as herein stated.
      (2)   Private haulers who shall violate any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.38 may be reported to the State Department of Environmental Protection by
the borough, and may be subject to revocation of state authorization to
transport municipal waste, as described in the amended Pa.C.S. Title 27
(Environmental Resources), Waste Transportation Safety Program.
(Ord. 9-2008, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 6-2014, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 2-2019,
passed 2-11-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
Connections Required
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Use of public sewers required
   
51.003   Building sewers and connections
   
51.004   Rules and regulations governing building sewers and connections to
sewers
   
51.005   New connections prohibited
Cross-Connections
   
51.015   Definitions
   
51.016   Purpose
   
51.017   Water Department and consumer; joint responsibility
   
51.018   Cross-connections prohibited
   
51.019   Survey and investigation
   
51.020   Where protection is required
   
51.021   Type of protection required
   
51.022   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.023   Installation
   
51.024   Inspection and maintenance of nonresidential device
   
51.025   Inspection and maintenance of residential devices
   
51.026   Booster pumps and storage tanks
   
51.027   Consumer’s storage tanks
   
51.028   Color coding
   
51.029   Basis for discontinuance of service
   
51.030   Access
Backflow
   
51.045   Applicability
   
51.046   Installation
   
51.047   Cost and ownership
   
51.048   Leakage and waste
Inspector
   
51.060   Borough to inspect
   
51.061   Inspection
   
51.062   Discovery of illegal connection
Installation and Replacement of Water Service Lines
   
51.075   Water service line pipe
   
51.076   Stop cock boxes
   
51.077   Leaks
   
51.078   Replacement
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Typical Residential Water Service Entrance Detail
CONNECTIONS REQUIRED
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Borough of Topton Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania
municipality authority.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania, a Pennsylvania
municipal corporation, acting by and through its Council or, in appropriate
cases, acting by and through its authorized representatives.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within this borough upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sanitary sewage and/
or industrial wastes shall be or may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
rejected or escaping in the course of any industrial, manufacturing, trade or
business process or in the course of the development, recovery or processing of
natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LATERAL. The part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the curb
line or, if there shall be no curb line, to the property line or, if no such
LATERAL shall be provided, then LATERAL shall mean that portion of, or place
in, a sewer which is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in this borough.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property, including such ground, surface or stormwater as may be
present.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial wastes,
situated in or adjacent to this borough and owned by the authority and leased
to this borough for operation and use.
   STREET. Includes any street, road, lane, court, public square or alley.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 51.002 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any improved property abutting on or adjoining any street
in which there is a sewer shall connect such improved property therewith, in
such manner as this borough may require, within 45 days after notice to such
owner from this borough to make such connection, for the purpose of discharge
of all sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from such improved property,
subject to such rules, regulations, limitations and restrictions as shall be
established herein or otherwise shall be established by this borough, from time
to time.
   (B)   All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property,
after connection of such improved property with a sewer shall be required under
division (A) above, shall be conducted into a sewer, subject to such
limitations and restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall
be established by this borough, from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall place or deposit or permit to be placed or
deposited upon public or private property within this borough any sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes in violation of division (A) above.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or permit to be discharged to any natural
outlet within this borough any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in
violation of division (A) above, except where suitable treatment has been
provided which is satisfactory to this borough.
   (D)   (1)   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle shall be used and maintained at any time upon any improved property
which has been connected to a sewer or which shall be required under division
(A) above to be connected to a sewer.
      (2)   Every such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle in existence shall be abandoned and, at the discretion of this
borough, shall be cleansed and filled at the expense of the owner of such
improved property and under the direction and supervision of this borough; and
any such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle not
so abandoned and, if required by this borough, cleansed and filled, shall
constitute a nuisance and such nuisance may be abated as provided by law, at
the expense of the owner of such improved property.
   (E)   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
at any time shall be connected with a sewer.
   (F)   The notice by this borough to make a connection to a sewer, referred
to in division (A) above, shall consist of a copy of this subchapter, including
any amendments and/or supplements at the time in effect, or a summary of each
section thereof and a written or printed document requiring the connection in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and specifying that such
connection shall be made within 45 days from the date such notice is given.
Such notice may be given at any time after a sewer is in place which can
receive and convey sanitary sewage and industrial wastes for treatment and
disposal from the particular improved property. Such notice shall be served
upon the owner either by personal service or by registered mail or by such
other method as at the time may be provided by law.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-27-1962) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into or use,
alter or disturb in any manner any sewer or any part of the sewer system
without first obtaining a permit, in writing, from this borough.
   (B)   Application for a permit required under division (A) above shall be
made by the owner of the improved property served or to be served.
   (C)   No person shall make, or cause to be made a connection of any improved
property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of the
following conditions.
      (1)   Such person shall have notified the Secretary of this borough of
the desire and intention to connect to a sewer.
      (2)   Such person shall have applied for and obtained a permit as
required by division (A) above.
      (3)   Such person shall have given the Secretary of this borough at least
24 hours’ notice of the time when such connection will be made so that this
borough may supervise and inspect the work of connection and necessary testing.
      (4)   Such person shall have furnished satisfactory evidence to the
Secretary of this borough that any tapping fee charged and imposed by the
authority against the owner of each improved property who connects such
improved property to a sewer has been paid.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), each improved
property shall be connected separately and independently with a sewer through a
building sewer. Grouping of more than one improved property on one building
sewer shall not be permitted except under special circumstances and for good
sanitary reasons or other good cause shown and then only after special
permission of this borough, in writing, shall have been secured and subject to
such rules, regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by this borough.
   (E)   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and save harmless this borough from all loss or damage that may be
occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of construction of a building
sewer or of connection of a building sewer to a sewer.
   (F)   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by the borough and where the lateral is provided. The invert of a building
sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or a higher elevation
than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall be made secure and water-
tight.
   (G)   If the owner of any improved property abutting on or adjoining any
street in which there is a sewer, after 45 days’ notice from this borough, in
accordance with §
51.002(A), shall fail to connect such improved property, as required, this
borough may make such connection and may collect from such owner the costs and
expenses thereof by a municipal claim, an action in assumpsit or such other
legal proceeding as may be permitted by law.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-27-1962) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS TO
SEWERS.
   (A)   Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sewer is
required, shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or device, the
existing house sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of such sewage
disposal system or device and attachment shall be made, with proper fittings,
to continue such house sewer line, as a building sewer.
   (B)   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by this borough. If any part of a building sewer is covered before so
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection at the cost
and expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a sewer.
   (C)   Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
   (D)   Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Streets,
sidewalks and other public property disturbed in the course of installation of
a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of the owner of the
improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to this borough.
   (E)   If any person shall fail or refuse, upon receipt of a notice of this
borough, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory condition with respect to a
building sewer, within 45 days of receipt of such notice, this borough may
refuse to permit such person to discharge sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
into the sewer system until such unsatisfactory condition shall have been
remedied to the satisfaction of this borough.
   (F)   This borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with a sewer and the sewer system, which additional rules and
regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as part
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-27-1962) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 NEW CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No residential, commercial, or industrial property located wholly outside of
the borough, which does not have an approved connection prior to the effective
date of this section, shall be permitted to connect to the borough's public
water and public sanitary sewer systems, with the exception of:
   (A)   Properties which are partially located within other municipalities,
and partially in the borough;
   (B)   Properties which are the subject of valid agreements between the
borough, the Borough Municipal Authority, a municipal governing body and/ or
the property owner(s), for as long as said agreement remains in effect;
   (C)   Properties for which there is an order of court or administrative
agency possessing jurisdiction to connect to the borough public sewer or public
water system;
   (D)   The Brandywine Heights Area School District and any successor in
interest thereto; and
   (E)   The Lutheran Home at Topton and any successor in interest thereto.
(Ord. 05-2021, passed 7-12-2021)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying potable
water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. The differential distance shall be at least double the diameter
(2 x D) of the supply pipe measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the
vessel. In no case shall the air gap be less than one inch.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPROVED. That a backflow prevention device or method that has been accepted
by the Water Department as suitable for the proposed use.
   ASSE. American Society of Sanitary Engineers.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. (Also known as the non-pressure type vacuum
breaker), shall mean a device containing a shut-off valve followed by a valve
body containing a float-check, a check seat and an air inlet port. When the
shut-off valve is open, the flow of water causes the float to close the air
inlet port. When the shut-off valve is closed, the float falls and forms a
check valve against back-siphonage and at the same time opens the air inlet
port.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system of the premises of or
available to the consumer except connections to other approved community water
supply systems.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The backflow of water or mixture of water and other liquids,
gases or other substances from a plumbing fixture or other consumer source,
into a water system main due to a temporary negative or sub-atmospheric
pressure within the water system.
   BACKFLOW. A flow condition, induced by a differential in pressure, that
causes the flow of water or mixtures of water and other liquids, gases or other
substances into the distribution pipes of the water system from a source other
than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER or BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device or other means
which will prevent the backflow of water or liquids of questionable quality
into the water system.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania, acting through
its Borough Council or duly designated employee or representative.
   CONSUMER. The owner of any premises who, prior to, upon or after the
effective date of this subchapter, has contracted, shall contract or is
otherwise by ordinance of the borough responsible for water service to a
consumer unit. The term CONSUMER shall mean and include, as applicable, each of
the following: a residential or nonresidential (commercial, industrial or
institutional) establishment.
   CONSUMER UNIT OR PREMISES.
      (1)   A building under one roof and occupied by one family or business;
      (2)   A combination of buildings in one enclosure or group and occupied
by one family or business;
      (3)   One side of a double building or house having a solid vertical
partition wall;
      (4)   Each room or group of rooms in a building occupied or intended for
occupancy as a separate business or separate living quarters by a family and/or
other group of persons living together or by a person living alone;
      (5)   Any trailer or mobile home occupied by one family or business;
      (6)   Any public building devoted entirely to public use, such as a
school house, house of worship, fire house; or
      (7)   Each apartment, condominium, office, or suite of offices in a
building or house having several such apartments, condominiums, offices or
suites of offices and using in common one or more hallways and one or more
means of entrances.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system, located on the consumer’s
premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to the water system. A
household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM.
   CONTAINMENT. Cross-connection control which isolates the consumer’s entire
facility from the water system so as to provide the protection necessary to
prevent contamination of the water system in the event of backflow from the
consumer’s facility.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of the drinking water by
wastewaters, processed fluids or any water of a quality less than accepted
drinking water quality to a degree which would create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. An arrangement allowing either a direct or indirect
connection through which backflow, including back-siphonage, can occur between
the drinking water in the water system and a system containing a source or
potential source of contamination.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to health and the
adverse effect upon the water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, check valves including tightly closing shut-off valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the
water-tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and well being of
its users. The word SEVERE as used to quality HEALTH HAZARD means a hazard to
the health of the user that could reasonably be expected to result in
significant morbidity or death.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous, use of two sources of water.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any premises.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation, trust, governmental body or any agency, department or political
subdivision thereof, or any other group or entity.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness or
quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the
public health but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for
domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Department of Environmental
Protection of the commonwealth.
   PREMISES. See CONSUMER UNIT.
   PROCESS FLUIDS.
      (1)   Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the water
system or a consumer’s water system.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
         (b)   Process waters;
         (c)   Used waters originating from the water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
         (d)   Cooling waters;
         (e)   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams or
irrigation systems;
         (f)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
         (g)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes; and
         (h)   Heating system waters from boilers or heat pumps.
   psi. Pounds per square inch.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE (RPZ) DEVICE. A minimum of two independently acting
check valves, together with an automatically operated pressure differential
relief valve located between the two check valves. During normal flow and at
the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the checks at less than the supply pressure. The
unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the
device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test stops.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The water service pipe from the borough’s water
distribution main in the street or right-of-way to the premises, owned and/or
maintained by the consumer, except the water meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the water system or a consumer’s water system
containing potable water.
   TENANT. A person who leases or rents premises from an owner.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The operating department organized and supervised by the
Council of the borough to manage and operate the water system.
   WATER METER ASSEMBLY. The water meter with remote reader, and the backflow
prevention device.
   WATER SYSTEM. The existing waterworks, water supply works and water
transmission and distribution system lines and other facilities and storage
facilities and properties, together with all appurtenant facilities and
properties which the borough has acquired or hereafter shall acquire, from time
to time, in connection therewith, including all property, real, personal,
mixed, rights, powers, licenses, easements, rights-of-way, privileges,
licenses, franchises and other property or interest in property of whatsoever
nature used or useful in connection with such facilities, and together with all
additions, extension, alterations and improvements thereof or thereto which may
be made or acquired, from time to time, by the borough.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.016 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
51.017 through
51.028 is as follows:
   (A)   To protect the water system from contamination or pollution by
isolating within the consumer’s water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the borough’s water system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the water system or a consumer’s water system
containing potable water and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and
sources or systems containing process fluids; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the water system and a consumer’s water system
containing the potable water.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.017 WATER DEPARTMENT AND CONSUMER; JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Water Department and the consumer have the joint responsibility
for protection of the water system from contamination due to backflow of
contaminants through the service connections.
   (B)   After the effective date of this subchapter, the following
installation requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Existing nonresidential consumers shall install a backflow
prevention device, of an approved type, within one year from the effective date
of this subchapter, which installation shall be at the consumer’s cost. The
backflow prevention device shall be placed within the structure served.
      (2)   Every existing residential consumer shall install a backflow
prevention device, to be furnished by the borough at the consumer’s cost, when
the existing meter or water service for such existing residential consumer is
replaced or relocated.
      (3)   Every new residential consumer shall install a backflow prevention
device, to be furnished by the borough at the new consumer’s cost, as part of
the new house water system installation.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the consumer to have the backflow
prevention device installed in accordance with requirements of the borough by a
master plumber, and to arrange for the inspection of same by a representative
of the Water Department upon installation.
      (5)   Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to comply
with this section shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No service connection shall be installed or maintained to any premises
where actual or potential cross-connections to the water system or consumer’s
water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are
abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Water Department.
   (B)   No service connection shall be installed or maintained whereby water
from an auxiliary water system may enter the water system or a consumer’s water
system unless such auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use
of such supply shall have been approved by the Water Department.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Water Department for the purposes of conducting surveys and investigations of
water use practices within the consumer’s premises to determine whether there
are actual or potential cross-connections to the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The Water Department shall determine the size and type of backflow
prevention device required based upon the above survey and investigation.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to conduct periodic
surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water system.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.020 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed prior to the
first branch line leading off each service connection to a consumer’s water
system.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service connection to a consumer’s water system.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.021 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists.
   (B)   The following types of protection, as determined by the Water
Department, shall be required.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the water
system may be contaminated with substances that are dangerous to the public
health and could cause severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure zone
device shall be installed where the water system may be contaminated with a
substance that could cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure zone
device or an approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where the
water system may be polluted with substances that would be objectionable but
not dangerous to health.
      (4)   A backflow preventer or vacuum breaker shall be installed on any
water outlet to which a hose could be connected, at the consumer’s cost and
expense.
      (5)   Each fixture supply pipe shall be protected from backflow by having
all outlets from which potable water flows spaced a sufficient distance above
the flood level rim of the receptacle into which the water flows to provide a
“minimum” air gap. The fixture shall be equipped with an accessibly located
backflow preventer installed beyond the manual control valve. Vacuum breakers
on aspirators shall be at least 12 inches above waste material and at least 18
inches above top of table in funeral homes. The distance for the vacuum breaker
on a bed pan sterilizer shall be 24 inches above overflow rim of the fixture. A
vacuum breaker shall be installed on all yard and wall hydrants. On certain
installations such as hospitals, clinics, plating shops, chemical plants,
embalming establishments and multi-storied buildings, backflow preventers of a
type approved by the Water Department, shall be installed on the building side
of the meter.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.022 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of
a model or construction approved by the Water Department and shall comply with
the following.
      (1)   Air gap separation to be approved by the Water Department shall be
at least twice the diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the
top rim of the vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
      (2)   (a)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Water Department and shall
be a device that has been manufactured in full conformance with standards
established by the American Water Works Association entitled: AWWA C506
Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow
Prevention Devices. Said AWWA standard are herein adopted by the Water
Department.
         (b)   Final approval, however, of the reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer and the double check valve assembly shall be evidenced by a
certificate of full approval issued by an approved testing laboratory
certifying full compliance with the said AWWA standards.
      (3)   An interchangeable connection, to be approved by the Water
Department, shall be either a swing type connector of a four-way valve of the
lubricated plug type that operates through a mechanism which unseats the plug,
turns it 90 degrees and reseats the plug. Four-way valves shall not be used as
stop valves but must have separate stop valves on each pipe connected to the
valve. The telltale port on the four-way valve shall have no piping connected
and the threads or flange on this port shall be destroyed so that a connection
cannot be made.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Water Department
at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirement of
division (A) above provided that the Borough Manager is satisfied that such
devices will satisfactorily protect the water system.
   (C)   Whenever any such existing device is moved from the present location
or requires more than minimum maintenance or whenever the Borough Manager finds
that the maintenance of the device constitutes a hazard to health, the device
shall be replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.023 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Water Department and
shall be installed by a person who is, in the opinion of the Water Department,
properly qualified to perform such installations.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service connection to a
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter, as shown on Public Improvements Requirements Manual, S-W-20, as close to
the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection. In the
case of multi-family dwellings and multi-use buildings, such device shall be
installed on each individual service to each dwelling unit and use.
   (C)   Pits or vaults shall be of water-tight construction approved by the
Water Department, be so located and constructed as to prevent flooding and
shall be maintained by the consumer free from standing water by means of either
a sump and pump or a suitable drain. Such sump pump or drain shall not connect
to a sanitary sewer nor permit flooding of the pit or vault by reverse flow
from its point of discharge. An access ladder and adequate natural or
artificial lighting shall be provided to permit maintenance inspection and
testing of the backflow device.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.024 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF NONRESIDENTIAL DEVICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the nonresidential consumer to have
inspections, tests and overhaul made as directed by the Water Department in
accordance with the following schedule (or more often where inspections
indicate a need).
      (1) Air gap separation shall be inspected at time of installation and at
least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed and at least every 30 months.
      (3)   Reduced pressure zone backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
      (4)   Interchangeable connections shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
   (B)   Inspections, tests and overhaul of nonresidential backflow prevention
devices shall be made at the expense of the consumer and shall be performed by
the Water Department or a person certified by the Water Department to inspect,
test and overhaul backflow prevention devices. The Council of the borough shall
from time to time establish, by resolution, a schedule of fees establishing the
cost of such inspections, tests and other services that may be rendered by the
Water Department.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired, or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay.
   (D)   The consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspection and
repairs. Record of inspections, tests, repairs and overhaul shall be submitted
to the Water Department.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Water Department.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.025 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL DEVICES.
   Inspection, tests and maintenance of residential backflow prevention devices
shall be conducted by the Water Department. The consumer shall provide access
to Water Department personnel for this purpose.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.026 BOOSTER PUMPS AND STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service connection to
or within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
connection on the suction side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch
gauge or less for a period of 30 seconds or longer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the consumer to maintain the low pressure cut-
off device in proper working order and to certify annually to the Water
Department that the device is in such condition.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.027 CONSUMER’S STORAGE TANKS.
   Consumer’s storage tanks supplied with borough water shall be approved by
the Water Department, and shall be inspected periodically by the Water
Department to assure compliance with this subchapter and applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.028 COLOR CODING.
   (A)   In building or industrial plants where multiple piping systems are
used for water, extreme care shall be taken not to interconnect the systems.
Where water from the water system is used to service systems of lesser quality
such as fire protection, plumbing, fixtures, vats, tanks, boilers, sewer
ejectors, pumps and numerous other hazardous items, the potable water system
must be separated or protected from such cross-connections by an air gap
separation, vacuum breakers, reduced pressure backflow preventers or double
check valves.
   (B)   (1)   Each outlet on the non-potable water line, which may be
inadvertently used for drinking water shall be posted “Danger - Unsafe Water”.
Other pipes shall be painted or banded at appropriate intervals and stenciled
to identify their contents and director of flow. The following system shall be
used:
 
Chemical          Orange color Stenciled “Chemical”
Fire protection   Red color    Stenciled “Fire”
Gas               Black color  Stenciled “Gas”
Non-potable water Brown color  Stenciled “Non-Potable Water”
Potable water     Green color  Stenciled “Potable Water”
 
      (2)   Colored plastic bands may be used instead of paint, i.e., Dymo tape
with legends, so long as labels or bands are permanently fastened to pipes.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.029 BASIS FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Department shall have the right to shut off the supply of
water for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For repairs;
      (2)   For any disapproval of the consumer’s equipment or installation by
virtue of its being defective or unsafe without prompt action being taken to
remedy the same;
      (3)   For violation of or noncompliance with the terms and conditions,
regulations and rules set forth in this subchapter or any other ordinance or
regulations of the borough pertaining to the supply of water from the water
system; and
      (4)   Whenever such action is necessary in the opinion of the Water
Department to protect the borough from fraud or abuse.
   (B)   The Water Department shall notify a consumer in writing when
discontinuance is due to violations described in this subchapter.
   (C)   The borough shall not be liable for any damage, loss or injury
sustained by the consumer or his or her tenant by reason of any failure to
supply water on account of storms, accident or for any other cause whatsoever.
   (D)   Should any system supplied by borough water be operated in violation
of any provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Water
Department to completely disconnect all service connections serving such system
or to assure itself that there is a physical separation of piping until this
subchapter is properly complied with. Any cost of such disconnection and the
estimated cost of reconnection must be paid by the consumer before service
shall be restored.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 51.030 ACCESS.
   The properly authorized agent(s) of the Water Department shall at all
reasonable hours have free and unrestricted access to the premises of any
consumer for the purpose of inspecting any backflow prevention device and any
appurtenances thereto.
(Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989)
BACKFLOW
§ 51.045 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all properties, residential, commercial and
industrial, that are served with public water by the borough and the borough
municipal authority.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 51.046 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All meter installations shall be made in accordance with the borough’s
typical residential water service entrance detail, as set out in
Appendix A.
   (B)   Any connection to the public water system, or connection of any
appliance to the public water system, shall be by a person properly qualified.
   (C)   Where the customer considers prevailing pressures to be higher than
desirable, he or she may install at his or her own expense a pressure control
valve after the backflow prevention assembly. Likewise, where the customer
considers prevailing pressures to be lower than desirable, he or she may at his
or her own expense install a pressure boosting system after the backflow
prevention assembly. The customer shall be responsible for the proper
installation and maintenance of pressure controls.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Borough Engineer or
Code Official.
   (E)   Installation of backflow prevention device(s), booster pumps, or
pressure reducing valves and thermal expansion tanks shall be at the expense of
the property owner.
   (F)   (1)   All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed in a
University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (USCFCCHR) - approved or American Water Works Association
(AWWA) - approved manner and in conformance with the manufacturer’s
recommendation.
      (2)   Backflow preventers shall be located immediately downstream (on the
customer side) of the water meter and before any connection to the service line
and shall be easily accessible for maintenance, inspection and testing. The
backflow prevention assembly must be installed in a horizontal alignment with
the bottom of the backflow preventer at least 12 inches above the floor and at
least 12 inches from any wall unless approved by the Borough Engineer prior to
installation.
      (3)   Installation of backflow preventers in pits will only be allowed if
no other type of installation is possible, and then only with approval of the
borough.
   (G)   All connections to the water system, and the installation of all
appliances and devices connected to the water system shall be in accordance
with manufacturer instructions and applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 51.047 COST AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Nonresidential customers. All new and existing nonresidential
customers shall install a backflow prevention assembly approved by the borough.
The cost of furnishing and installation of the assembly shall be the
responsibility of the customer. The customer shall retain ownership of the
assembly. A means of providing for thermal expansion shall also be included.
Nonresidential customers shall be responsible for periodic testing and
maintenance of the devices as required by the borough.
   (B)   Residential customers. All new residential customers, and existing
residential customers installing appliances which will be connected to the
public water system shall install a backflow prevention assembly approved by
the borough. The device shall be installed directly after the meter and in a
configuration specified and approved by the borough. The customer shall retain
ownership of the assembly. A thermal expansion tank shall be installed by the
customer, before or at the same time that a water meter and backflow preventer
is installed.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 51.048 LEAKAGE AND WASTE.
   No person shall allow water waste by way of unrepaired leaks or by willful
action. Use of all water passing through the meter shall be charged at the
regular rate and no allowance shall be made for excessive consumption due to
leakage or waste on the customer’s premises.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
51.999
INSPECTOR
§ 51.060 BOROUGH TO INSPECT.
   The borough, through the duly appointed person or persons, shall provide for
inspections of all residential dwelling units, commercial and industrial
enterprises, together with all educational and religious institutions connected
to the sanitary sewage system. Such inspection is for the purpose of
determining compliance with the terms and provisions of the then applicable
Plumbing Code ordinance, as codified in §§
150.045 through
150.052 of this code of ordinances, and/or the regulations promulgated by the
borough in all matters relating to illegal connections and the reduction,
prevention and/or control of infiltration and inflow of waters into the said
sewage collection system.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 51.061 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Such inspection shall occur:
      (1)   At the discretion of the borough upon reasonable cause to believe
that a violation of the above reference ordinances or regulations have
occurred; and/or
      (2)   At the time of transfer of title to a property connected to the
sanitary sewage collection system.
   (B)   The costs of such inspection shall be billed by the borough to the
current owner of the structure connected to the sanitary sewage system as part
of the final reading rendered to the owner and/or in the event that no final
bill is rendered then to the current owner.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 3-8-2004)
§ 51.062 DISCOVERY OF ILLEGAL CONNECTION.
   (A)   In the event that such inspection discloses an illegal connection to
the collection system or other noncompliance with applicable borough ordinances
or regulations, a written notice of such noncompliance signed by Council’s
designated representative shall be posted conspicuously on the front door of
the premises. A certified letter shall also be sent to the owner informing him
or her of the observed violations. The current owner shall bear all costs for
removal, remediation and/or abatement of any violation found and, if needed,
bringing the premises into code compliance or regulations compliance. The owner
of the premises shall have 60 days from receipt of the written notice to abate
or remediate the violation.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that any such inspection discloses violations of
the Borough Plumbing Code then in effect or applicable regulations, the owner
of the property shall, at no charge, obtain a permit from the borough at no
charge, and shall have required repairs commenced and completed by a licensed
plumbing contractor within 60 days of the date of the notice that the
inspection has disclosed such a violation.
      (2)   In the event that the owner of such property fails to commence and
complete the repairs required to bring the property into compliance with
applicable provisions of the Plumbing Code and regulations then in effect
within 60 days of the date of notice, or fails to procure a permit, said
property owner shall be required to obtain a permit at a fee of $50.
      (3)   In the event that the owner of such property fails to commence and
complete the repairs required to bring the property into compliance with
applicable provisions of the Plumbing Code and regulations then in effect
within 120 days of the notice, or fails to said property owner shall be deemed
to be in violation of the Plumbing Code and/or applicable regulations, and
shall be subject to an enforcement action before the District Justice, and
fines and/or penalties of not more than $1,000, plus court costs and attorneys’
fees, with each day constituting a separate ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 3-2009, passed 5-11-2009) Penalty, see §
51.999
INSTALLATION AND REPLACEMENT OF WATER SERVICE LINES
§ 51.075 WATER SERVICE LINE PIPE.
   All water service line pipe connections with the Borough Water Department
mains installed or replaced henceforth shall have a minimum diameter of three-
fourths of an inch; shall be made of copper tubing material when available; and
shall be subject to inspection by the Borough Water Department.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-5-1951)
§ 51.076 STOP COCK BOXES.
   All stop cock boxes installed or replaced henceforth shall be located within
one foot of the curb line. In case two or more consumers are supplied through a
single service pipe, a distinct and separate stop cock box must be provided for
each consumer.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-5-1951)
§ 51.077 LEAKS.
   All leaks in the service pipes and fixtures in and upon the premises
supplied beyond the curb line must be promptly repaired by the owner or
occupant. If the owner or occupant fails to make such repairs within reasonable
dispatch, the borough, upon due notice, may turn off the water until such time
as all necessary repairs have been made and the charge for shutting off and
turning on the water has been paid in full.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-5-1951)
§ 51.078 REPLACEMENT.
   The installation and replacement of a service line pipe from the water main
to the curb line, including the stop cock box, shall be made at the expense of
the consumer, except that the borough will pay the material cost of any service
line pipe in excess of seven feet from the stop cock box, such excessive length
as is necessary to connect with the water main.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-5-1951)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §§
51.001 through
51.004 shall be liable, upon summary conviction for a first offense and upon
summary conviction for each subsequent offense, to a fine of not less than $15
nor more than $25, together with costs of prosecution in each case. Each day
that a violation shall continue shall be deemed and shall be taken to be a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   Fines and costs imposed under provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.004 shall be enforceable and recoverable in the manner at the time provided
by applicable law.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.015 through
51.030 shall be subject for each violation to a penalty of not less than $25
nor more than $300 to be imposed and collected in the manner provided by the
Borough Code in the case of violations of borough ordinances.
   (D)   The borough may deny or discontinue, after issuing at least 30 days’
written notice, water service to any premises to which meters, backflow
prevention devices or pressure control devices, or other appurtenances are not
installed if required, not installed in accordance with §§
51.045 through
51.048, and/or are not properly maintained in working order. Water service to
such premises shall not be restored until the property owner has corrected or
eliminated such conditions or defects in accordance with this division (D), and
to the satisfaction of the Borough Engineer. Any person who shall violate §§
51.045 through
51.048 shall be subject to a judgment not to exceed $1,000, plus the costs of
remediation of any damage to the public water system, and any costs incurred by
the borough, including fees for inspection and attorneys’ fees, in proceedings
before the magisterial district judge of competent jurisdiction. Each day of
noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation.
   (E)   Any person who violates or permits the violation of §§
51.060 through
51.062 shall upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding commenced before a
district justice pay a fine prescribed by the borough, not exceeding $1,000
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
borough. Each and every day during a violation of §§
51.060 through
51.062 shall occur will constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-27-1962; Ord. 5-1989, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 2-2004, passed
3-8-2004; Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016)
APPENDIX A: TYPICAL RESIDENTIAL WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1382.png]
 
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 4-11-2016)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
Regulations
   
52.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.016   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.017   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.018   Specific pollutant limitations
   
52.019   State requirements
   
52.020   Borough’s right of revision
   
52.021   Excessive discharge
   
52.022   Accidental discharges
Fees
   
52.035   Purpose
   
52.036   Charges and fees
Administration
   
52.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.051   Wastewater contribution permits
   
52.052   Reporting requirements for permittees
   
52.053   Monitoring facilities
   
52.054   Inspection and sampling
   
52.055   Pretreatment
   
52.056   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
52.070   Harmful contributions
   
52.071   Revocation of permit
   
52.072   Notification of violation
   
52.073   Show cause hearing
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the
borough, and enables the borough to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customers’ capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the borough and to persons outside the
borough who are, by contract or agreement with the borough, users of the
borough POTW. This chapter is a supplement to Ord. 329, as amended and codified
in
Chapter 53; and if there is any conflict between the two, the terms set forth
herein shall control. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Borough Manager
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state
without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. May be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, a Pennsylvania municipality.
   BOROUGH MANAGER. The person designated by the Borough Council to supervise
the operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY, defined hereinabove; or
the Borough Manager if the borough has an approved pretreatment program under
the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the commonwealth.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
“discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy,
discharge, rejected or escaping in the course of any industrial, manufacturing,
trade or business process, or waste conversion, storage or recycling process,
or in the course of the development, recovery or processing of natural
resources, as distinct from sewage, including such ground, surface or
stormwater as may be present and blended therewith.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
borough’s NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the borough or in Longswamp Township, if
the said property in Longswamp Township is connected to the borough sewer
system.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the borough
municipal authority, a Pennsylvania municipality authority, and operated by the
borough, as lessee. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater
to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes
of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to
the POTW from persons outside the borough in Longswamp Township who are, by
contract or agreement with the borough, users of the borough’s POTW.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the borough’s wastewater
disposal system who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the borough’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his, her or its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant
to § 307 of the Act, or
in Pennsylvania Statutes and rules;
      (4)   As set forth in the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Regulations contained
in Chapter 25, § 75.261 of the Pennsylvania Bulletin and the State Code; or
      (5)   Is found by the State Department of Environmental Protection or the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STATE. State of Pennsylvania.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the borough’s POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions, which
may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or
permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.051.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   (B)   A user may not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are
not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, volatile organic compounds, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any
other substances which the borough, the state or EPA has notified the user is a
fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics,
gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 8.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW;
      (4) Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
§ 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use
or the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being , being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is designed to accommodate such
temperature;
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration, quantities, or flow during normal operation;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Borough
Manager in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations; and
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   (C)   When the Borough Manager determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, the Borough Manager shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
and
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with the POTW.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985; Ord. 1-1993, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 52.016 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
Borough Manager shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.017 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Where the borough’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal
of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standard, the borough may apply
to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the federal
pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount
of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken when measured according to
the procedures set forth in § 403.7(c)(2) of 40 C.F.R. part 403, “General
Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated
pursuant to the Act. The borough may then modify pollutant discharge limits in
the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R.
part 403, § 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority
is obtained.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.018 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the
following maximum concentrations, unless waived by Council upon indication that
a higher concentration is not detrimental to the sewerage system, treatment
process, or stream discharge limitations. In the event of such a waiver,
Council reserves the right to impose surcharges on the user’s regular sewer
billings, to account for extra treatment costs.
Parameter Maximum Concentration mg/l
Parameter                    Maximum Concentration mg/l
Ammonia/nitrogen             30
Arsenic                      0.1
BOD                          250
BOD5                         250
Cadmium                      0.5
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 600
Copper                       0.025
Cyanides                     0.007
Hexavalent chromium          0.1
Lead                         0.1
Mercury                      0.001
Nickel                       1
Oil and grease               50
Phenols                      0.001
Selenium                     0.02
Silver                       0.0025
Surfactants (MBAS)           0.0025
Total Chromium               1
Total phosphorus             3
TSS                          250
Zinc                         0.1
 
   (B)   (1)   The surcharge on a user’s regular sewer billing for discharges
exceeding a maximum pollutant concentration shall be calculated from the
following formula:
 
Surcharge = 8.34 x QGC/1,000,000 x [(PSR - PDL) x (Annual O&M Expense for
Pollutant per pound)]
 
      QGC = Quarterly Gallons Consumed
      PSR = Pollutant Sampling Result
      PDL = Pollutant Discharge Limit
      (2)   The annual operation and maintenance (O&M) expense for each pound
of pollutant treated shall be determined each year by examining the audited
expenses of the borough’s wastewater operations for the previous year. The
borough’s Engineer shall determine the apportionment of treatment expenses for
each pollutant.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985; Ord. 1-1993, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 2010-1,
passed 3-8-2010)
§ 52.019 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.020 BOROUGH’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The borough reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.001.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.021 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the borough or state.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the borough for review, and shall be approved by the borough
before construction of the facility. All existing users shall complete such a
plan by June 30, 1985 or within six months of notification. No user who
commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge procedures have been approved by the borough.
      (2)   Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of
an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident.
      (3)   The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Borough Manager a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
FEES
§ 52.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the borough’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation
of the program established herein.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.036 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The borough may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
borough’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for removal (by the borough) of pollutants otherwise subject
to federal pretreatment standards; and
      (7)   Other fees as the borough may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the borough.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a borough permit to any natural
outlet within the borough, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
borough, and/or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the Borough
Manager in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   General permits. All significant industrial users proposing to connect
to or to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit
before connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant
industrial users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a
wastewater contribution permit within 180 days after the effective date of this
chapter.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   New users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the borough an application in the form prescribed by the
borough accompanied by a fee as outlined in the schedule of rates and charges.
Existing users shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days
after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at
least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (2)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §§
52.015 through
52.022 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any borough, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   1.   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to
meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard.
            2.   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
               a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like);
               b.   No increment referred to in division (B)(2)(i)2.a. above
shall exceed six months; and
               c.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the Borough Manager including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the increment of progress ta be met on such date and, if not, the date on which
it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than six months elapse between such
progress reports to the Borough Manager.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the borough to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (3)   The borough will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the borough may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to
terms and conditions provided herein.
   (C)   Permit modification. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit
of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by
division (B) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater
contribution permit, shall submit to the Borough Manager within 180 days after
the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by divisions (B)(2)(h) and (B)(2)(i) above.
   (D)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the borough.
      (2)   Permits may contain the following:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
         (b)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (e)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
         (f)   Compliance schedules;
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see division (C) above);
         (h)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the borough, and affording
borough access thereto;
         (i)   Requirements for notification of the borough of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
         (j)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges; and
         (k)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the borough to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the borough during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in §§
52.015 through
52.022 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (F)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises,
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the borough. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.052 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES.
   (A)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Borough Manager a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified professional.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Borough
Manager on an annual basis, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment
standard or by the Borough Manager, a report indicating the nature and
concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow
reported in §
52.051(D)(2)(c).
      (2)   The Borough Manager may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by division (B)(1) above shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the Borough Manager, of pollutants contained
therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment
standard. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained
in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures
approved by the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with
the techniques approved by the Administrator.
      (3)   Comment: Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or
analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall
be performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA
publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with
any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the Administrator.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.053 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The borough may require to be provided and operated at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
borough may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the borough’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the borough.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.054 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The borough may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the borough or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of their duties. The
borough, approval authority (where the NPDES state is the approval authority)
and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the borough,
approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.055 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the borough shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at
the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the borough for review, and shall be
acceptable to the borough before construction of the facility. The review of
such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the borough under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the borough prior to the user’s initiation of the
changes.
   (B)   The borough may annually publish in the Reading Eagle newspaper a list
of the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The notification may
also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the
same 12 months.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.056 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the borough that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal system
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the borough as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the borough
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.070 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The borough may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the borough, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the
POTW or causes the borough to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the borough shall take such steps as
deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals. The borough shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit
and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the borough within 15 days
of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.071 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of the chapter, or applicable
state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permit revoked
in accordance with the procedures of §§
52.070 through
52.073:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his, her or its discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.072 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the borough finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter, wastewater contribution permit or any prohibition, limitation of
requirements contained herein, the borough may serve upon such person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the
notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the borough by the user.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.073 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Generally. The borough may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the Borough
Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall
be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by
the Borough Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to
be taken, the proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause
before the Borough Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   Within five days of mailing of the borough’s notice to the uses,
the user, who has received notice of intended suspension or revocation or has
been subjected to suspension or revocation, may request of the borough in
writing, addressed to the borough, an opportunity to be heard. The said hearing
shall be a show cause hearing at which the user shall be afforded an
opportunity to show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice of the time and place of the said hearing regarding the
violation, together with the statement of reasons that the said action is being
taken shall be forwarded to the user by the borough within five days after
receipt of request for the said hearing from the user. The said notice of
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail upon the
user. The said hearing shall thereafter commence with the commencement date to
be no later than ten days after receipt of the request for a hearing from the
user,
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Borough Council.
      (3)   The Borough Council shall hear the case pending and present a
majority finding which shall be binding on the parties. The said Borough
Council may:
         (a)   Issue in the name of Borough Council notices of hearing
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
         (b)   Take the evidence in accordance with the rules of evidence
applicable to local agency hearings under the laws of the commonwealth; and
         (c)   Provide a record and report of the evidence and hearing
including transcripts and other evidence.
      (4)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter and regulations,
testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded stenographically. The
transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or
any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
      (5)   The full cost of the said hearing including stenographers’ fees,
cost of meeting room, duplication fees and any other such costs, shall be borne
exclusively by the user requesting the hearing, and to that end, prior to the
inception of the hearing process, the user shall deposit with the borough, the
sum of $1,500 as an advance against costs, the balance, if any, shall be
returned to the user at the conclusion of the hearing process. In no event
shall any hearing be commenced without the advance payment of the said cost and
the failure to advance and pay the said cost shall be considered as a waiver of
the right of hearing herein before provided for. The borough shall have the
right to alter the amount of cost deposit required where it appears to the
borough that the matter is not so completed or time consuming as to generate
such a large cost.
      (6)   After review of the evidence and the findings and in accordance
therewith, the borough may issue an order in the form required by the local
agency law to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following
a specified time period, the service will be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities and devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Legal action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the borough’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any
order of the borough, the Borough Solicitor may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the court of common pleas in the
county.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have violated an order of
the Borough Council or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for
each offense, and failure to pay the same within 30 days after assessed by a
district justice shall result in imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than 30 days. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the borough may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court
reporters’ fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law
against the person found to have violated this chapter, or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder.
   (C)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representations, or certification in any application, record,
report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this chapter, or significant discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with
or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter and regulation, shall be prosecuted in accordance with the laws of
the commonwealth for submitting false reports to authorities together with any
and all other criminal penalties applicable for such conduct.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 1-14-1985; Ord. 1-1993, passed 2-8-1993)
CHAPTER 53: FEES AND CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Authorizing the disconnection and termination of water services to
realty and structures for failure to pay sewer and/or water charges
Regulations and Charges for Use
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Sewer rentals or charges
   
53.17   Computation of sewer rentals or charges
   
53.18   Time and method of payment
   
53.19   Liens for sewer rentals; filing and collection of liens
   
53.20   Measuring volume of sanitary sewage and industrial waste
   
53.21   Admission of industrial wastes into the sewer system
   
53.22   Prohibited wastes
   
53.23   Regulations governing admission of industrial wastes into the sewer
system
   
53.24   Access
   
53.25   Responsibility of owners of improved property
   
53.26   Adoption of additional rules and regulations
Water Rates
   
53.40   Water rates
Tapping and Connection Fees
   
53.55   Implementation and interpretation of Acts 203 and 209 of 1990
   
53.56   Connection fee
   
53.57   Amount equal to costs incurred
   
53.58   Deposit
   
53.59   Tapping fee
   
53.60   Computation of tapping fee
   
53.61   Method for determining the number of economic units applicable
   
53.62   Payment of tapping fee
   
53.63   Tapping fee calculation
   
53.64   Payment to Treasurer
   
53.65   Collection of tapping fees
   
53.66   Subchapter amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 AUTHORIZING THE DISCONNECTION AND TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICES TO
REALTY AND STRUCTURES FOR FAILURE TO PAY SEWER AND/OR WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Notice of delinquent charges. The borough shall send a notice to the
owners of record of the premises demanding payment in the amount of the
delinquent monies owed for the use of the water and/or sanitary sewers
including delinquent charges and charges for legal service owed to the borough
in connection with the delinquency.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The above-referenced notice or demand for payment
shall state the total amount of money owed, together with the notice of where
said delinquent account may be paid. The demand for payment shall also contain
a notice that if the amount owed is not paid within a period of 30 days from
the date of the notice, then the borough, in addition to any other legal
remedies it may have, may disconnect and terminate all water service to the
property where there are outstanding delinquent water and sewer charges.
   (C)   Charge for late notice. In addition to the charges for the use of
water and sanitary sewers, the borough shall add a charge to cover the costs of
the late notice in the amount of $10.
   (D)   Amendment to notice. The form of the notice or demand for payment
referenced above may be amended by vote of the Borough Council on motion at any
time.
   (E)   Disconnection of service. In the event that the delinquent water and/
or sanitary sewer charges, with all costs, penalty, attorney's fees and
interest accrued is not paid within the period of 30 days, the water service to
the premises shall be disconnected and terminated until said bill, penalty,
attorney's fees, interest, and all other costs are paid in full.
   (F)   Fees. In the event that it is necessary to disconnect and terminate
the water service to the realty, the fee to disconnect the service and the fee
to re-commence water service shall be added to the delinquent account and shall
be payable in the same manner as the rates and charges.
   (G)   Reinstatement of service. Upon payment of water and/or sanitary sewer
fees, penalty, attorney's fees, interest, and all other costs incurred,
including the disconnection and reconnection charges, water service may be
reinstated.
   (H)   Applicable law. The termination of water service shall be made in
accordance with the laws of the commonwealth and all other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 12-27-2007; Ord. 3-2023, passed 10-9-2023)
REGULATIONS AND CHARGES FOR USE
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Borough of Topton Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania
municipality authority.
   BILLING UNIT. Includes, as applicable, each of the following: a commercial
establishment; a dwelling unit; an industrial establishment; and an
institutional establishment.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in ppm,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure for five days at 20°C. The standard laboratory procedure
shall be that found in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage published by the American Public Health
Association.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania, a Pennsylvania
municipal corporation, acting by and through its Council or, in appropriate
cases, acting by and through its authorized representatives.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any room, group of rooms, building or enclosure
connected directly or indirectly to the sewer system and used or intended for
use in the operation of one business enterprise for the sale and distribution
of any product, commodity, article or service.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room, group of rooms, building or other enclosure
connected directly or indirectly to the sewer system and occupied or intended
for occupancy as a separate business or as separate living quarters by a family
or other group of persons living together or by a person living alone.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes resulting from preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food and from handling, storage and sale of produce.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property located within the borough upon which there
is erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation,
occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sanitary
sewage and/or industrial wastes shall be or may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected directly or indirectly to the sewer system and used or
intended for use, in whole or in part, in the operation of one business
enterprise for manufacturing, processing, cleaning, laundering or assembling
any product, commodity or article or from which any process waste, as distinct
from sanitary sewage, shall be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
rejected or escaping in the course of any industrial, manufacturing, trade or
business process or in the course of the development, recovery or processing of
natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected directly or indirectly to the sewer system which does not
constitute a commercial establishment, dwelling unit or an industrial
establishment.
   MULTIPLE UNIT. Any improved property in which shall be located more than one
billing unit.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the borough.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions,
expressed in grams per liter of solution, and indicates the degree of acidity
or alkalinity of a substance.
   ppm. Parts per million, by weight.
   PROPERLY CHOPPED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been chopped to such a degree
that all its particles will be carried freely under normal sewer flow
conditions, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property, including such ground, surface or stormwater as may be
present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The plant and facilities operated for such purpose
by the borough, to which the sewer system is to be connected.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial wastes,
situated in or adjacent to this borough and owned by the authority and leased
to this borough for operation and use.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids neither dissolved nor floating on the surface of
the liquid, as determined by appropriate procedures found in the latest edition
of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage published by the
American Public Health Association.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. All solids as determined by appropriate procedures found in
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage
published by the American Public Health Association.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any poisonous substance, including copper, cyanide,
chromium, beryllium, cadmium, lead, nickel, tin and zinc ions, any phenolic
bodies or radioactive isotopes.
   WATER SYSTEM. The facilities owned by the borough and used for the supply of
water to the public in the borough.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.16 SEWER RENTALS OR CHARGES.
   Sewer rentals or charges are imposed upon and shall be collected from the
owner of each improved property which shall be connected with the sewer system,
for use of the sewer system, whether such use shall be direct or indirect,
which sewer rentals or charges shall commence and shall be effective as of the
date of connection of each such improved property to the sewer system and shall
be payable as provided herein.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.17 COMPUTATION OF SEWER RENTALS OR CHARGES.
   (A)   Metered service.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Except upon special written permission granted by the borough
and upon good cause shown, each billing unit shall be required to have
installed a water meter or water meters to measure the quantity of water
consumed by such billing unit.
         (b)   Such sewer rentals or charges shall be computed in accordance
with the following metered rate schedule; subject, however, to the minimum
sewer rentals or charges provided in this section.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         COMMERCIAL USER. Any nonresidential user, which introduces primarily
domestic sewage, or treated groundwater, into the sanitary sewer system, and
which are not classified as “industrial user” as defined below.
         INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user that discharges process wastewater into the
sanitary sewer system.
         RESIDENTIAL USER. Users which are single-family dwelling units and
apartments introducing primarily domestic sewage into the sanitary sewer
system.
      (3)   Sewer user classifications created. There shall be created three
rate classes of users of the sanitary sewer system of the borough, which shall
be known as residential users, commercial users and industrial users.
      (4)   Residential user rates. The base rate for minimum residential user
sewer usage shall be increased to $93.60 per 4,000 gallons per quarter, and the
sewer usage charge for residential usage over 4,000 gallons per quarter shall
be increased to $12.72 per 1,000 gallons of usage per quarter.
      (5)   Commercial user rates. The base rate for minimum commercial user
sewer usage shall be increased to $99.60 per 4,000 gallons of usage per
quarter, and the sewer usage charge for nonresidential usage over 4,000 gallons
shall be increased to $13.92 per 1,000 gallons of usage per quarter.
      (6)   Industrial user rates. The base rate for minimum industrial user
sewer usage shall be increased to $99.60 per 4,000 gallons of usage per
quarter, and the sewer usage charge for nonresidential usage over 4,000 gallons
shall be increased to $15.12 per 1,000 gallons of usage per quarter.
   (B)   Non-metered service. Sewer rentals or charges for sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes discharged into the sewer system from any improved property
or any billing unit located therein when the volume of water usage shall not be
metered by the borough in connection with the water system or otherwise, and
when the actual volume of discharge shall not be metered as permitted in this
subchapter, shall be computed in accordance with the metered rate schedule
provided herein and based upon an estimate by the borough of the water
consumption of said improved property or billing unit.
   (C)   Multiple users.
      (1)   Each billing unit located in a multiple unit shall be billed as a
separate entity and the above metered rate schedule and minimum sewer rental or
charge shall be used in computing the sewer rentals or charges applicable to
each such billing unit.
      (2)   In any case where the borough grants written permission for more
than one billing unit to be served through a common water meter or through a
common sewage discharge meter for the purpose of computing sewer rentals or
charges hereunder a multiple rental or charge per quarter shall be imposed,
which rental or charge shall be calculated in the following manner:
         (a)   The total consumption of water through such common water meter
or the total discharge through such common sewage discharge meter shall be
divided by the number of billing units served thereby;
         (b)   The metered rate schedule for computing sewer rentals or charges
established under division (A) above shall be applied to the resultant
quotient; and
         (c)   The resultant pro rata rental or charge for each billing unit
shall be multiplied by the number of such billing units receiving water service
through such common water meter or discharging sewage through such common
sewage discharge meter to arrive at the total bill for all such billing units
served through the common meter; provided, however, that there shall be charged
a minimum quarterly rental or charge for each such billing unit.
   (D)   Surcharge for industrial wastes.
      (1)   Industrial establishments discharging industrial wastes to the
sewer system shall pay a strength of waste surcharge, in addition to the basic
volume rental or charge set forth under division (A) above which shall be made
in accordance with the following formula:
 
F = 1 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/IMAGES/0-0-0-1502.png] R (S1 - Sa)  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1502.png]   (B1 - Ba)
Sa Ba
 
         F = Factor to be applied to basic rate         R = Ratio of annual
extra cost of treatment to the total annual cost of treatment
         S1 = Total solids content of industrial wastes (suspended solids plus
dissolved solids) from the particular improved property in ppm
         Sa = Average total solids content of sanitary sewage - 800 ppm
         B1 = BOD content of industrial wastes from the particular improved
property in ppm
         Ba = Average BOD of sanitary sewage - 200 ppm
      (2)   The computation of such sewer rentals, including surcharges, shall
be subject to all adjustments provided for in this subchapter. The strength of
industrial wastes to be used for establishing surcharges in accordance with the
above formula shall be determined at intervals deemed advisable by the borough
or as may be requested by the industry. The collection and analysis of waste
samples for determining applicable surcharges shall be supervised by a
registered professional engineer approved by the borough. All costs for waste
sampling and collection shall be paid by the party which desires that the waste
be sampled and analyzed. The analysis of all waste samples collected to
determine applicable surcharges shall be made in accordance with the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage, as
published by the American Public Health Association,
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962; Ord. 352, passed 2-1-1965; Ord. 374, passed 5-6-
1968; Ord. 14-1979, passed 12-27-1980; Ord. 2-1993, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 5-
1996, passed 12-23-1996; Ord. 5-2000, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 10-2005, passed
12-27-2005; Ord. 02-2007, passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-7-2008; Ord.
11-2009, passed 12-28-2009; Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 2013-6, passed
12-9-2013; Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 8-
2022, passed 12-26-2022)
§ 53.18 TIME AND METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Sewer rentals or charges imposed by this subchapter shall be
payable quarterly.
      (2)   In the case of an owner of improved property whose quarterly bill
for sewer rentals or charges shall be computed in whole or in part upon the
basis of water volume usage metered by the borough in connection with the water
system, the quarterly billing date shall be the same date as shall be
applicable for billing by the borough in connection with the water system. Such
bill for sewer rentals or charges shall cover services furnished during the
three months immediately preceding the billing date.
      (3)   In the case of an owner of improved property whose quarterly bill
for sewer rentals or charges shall be computed on any basis completely
independent of water volume usage metered by the borough in connection with the
water system, the quarterly billing dates shall be the last days of January,
April, July and October, respectively, in each year and, to the extent
practicable, shall cover services furnished during the three calendar months
immediately preceding the billing date.
   (B)   Sewer rentals or charges shall be due and payable one day after
mailing or delivery by or in behalf of the borough to the person responsible
for payment thereof.
   (C)   Every owner of improved property which is connected to the sewer
system initially shall provide the borough with and thereafter shall keep the
borough advised of his or her correct address. Failure of any person to receive
quarterly bills for sewer rentals or charges shall not be considered an excuse
for nonpayment nor shall such failure result in an extension of the period of
time during which the net bill shall be payable.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962; Ord. 341, passed 11-4-1963)
§ 53.19 LIENS FOR SEWER RENTALS; FILING AND COLLECTION OF LIENS.
   Sewer rentals or charges imposed by this subchapter shall be a lien on the
improved property connected to and served by the sewer system; and any such
sewer rentals or charges which are not paid within 30 days after each quarterly
billing date shall be filed as a lien against the improved property so
connected to and served by the sewer system, which lien shall be filed in the
office of the Prothonotary of the county, and shall be collected in the manner
provided by law for the filing and collecting of municipal claims.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.20 MEASURING VOLUME OF SANITARY SEWAGE AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Methods of measuring volume.
      (1)   Whenever the entire water supply of an improved property or, if
applicable, of a billing unit or billing units located therein, discharging
sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes into the sewer system, is supplied by
the water system, the volume of water furnished, as determined from meter
readings of the water system, shall be used as the measure of discharge of
sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes in computing sewer rentals or charges,
subject to adjustment, if appropriate, as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Whenever an improved property or, if applicable, a billing unit or
billing units located therein, discharging sanitary sewage and/or industrial
wastes into the sewer system, shall have a source or sources of water supply in
addition to or other than the water system, the owner of such improved property
shall provide a meter or meters on such additional or other source or sources
of water supply. The total volume of water consumed, as determined from the
meter readings of the water system and the meter readings of the meter or
meters on such additional or other source or sources of water supply, or the
meter readings of the meter or meters on such other source or sources of water
supply, as appropriate, shall be used as the measure of discharge of sanitary
sewage and/or industrial wastes in computing the sewer rentals or charges,
subject to adjustment, if appropriate, as provided in this subchapter.
      (3)   Whenever an improved property or, if applicable, a billing unit or
billing units located therein, shall use water from the water system and/or
water from a source or sources of supply in addition to or other than the water
system for cooling or unpolluted commercial or industrial process purposes and
all or part of the water so used shall not be discharged into the sewer system,
the volume used as the measure of discharge of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes in computing sewer rentals or charges may be adjusted by one
of the following methods:
         (a)   By installing a meter or other measuring device on the
connection to the sewer system. The readings from such meter or measuring
device shall be used as the measure of discharge of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes in computing sewer rentals or charges;
         (b)   By installing a meter or other measuring device to measure the
volume not being discharged into the sewer system. The readings from such meter
or measuring device shall be deducted from the total water meter readings and
the remainder shall be used as the measure of discharge of sanitary sewage and/
or industrial wastes in computing sewer rentals or charges; or
         (c)   If it is not practical, in the opinion of the borough, to
install a meter or other measuring device to determine continuously the volume
not discharged into the sewer system, the borough shall determine, in such
manner and by such method as it may prescribe, the percentage of metered water
which is being discharged into the sewer system. The quantity of water used as
the measure of discharge of sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes in
computing sewer rentals or charges shall be the percentage so determined of the
quantity measured by the water meter or meters. Any dispute as to such
estimated percentage shall be submitted to the borough, after notice of such
estimate. The decision of the borough with respect to the matter shall be final
for the then current calendar year.
      (4)   Whenever an industrial establishment shall discharge only
industrial wastes into the sewer system, the volume of water used, measured as
herein provided, shall be used as a measure of the quantity of industrial
wastes so discharged.
      (5)   (a)   Whenever an industrial establishment shall discharge combined
sanitary sewage and industrial wastes into the sewer system, the volume of
water used, measured as herein provided, chargeable as industrial wastes shall
be the total volume of water used, less the volume of water determined to be
sanitary sewage.
         (b)   The volume of water determined to be sanitary sewage shall be
determined, at the option of the borough, in either of the following ways:
            1.   Actual measured flow; or
            2.   By multiplying the average number of employees in the
industrial establishment during the calendar quarter annum preceding the time
of billing by 650 gallons.
   (B)   Measuring devices. Meters or other measuring devices which shall not
be owned by the borough in connection with the water system but which shall be
required or permitted under provisions of this subchapter shall be furnished
and installed by the owner of the improved property at his or her expense,
shall be under the control of the borough and may be tested, inspected or
repaired by the borough whenever necessary. The owner of the improved property
upon which such meter or other measuring device shall be installed shall be
responsible for its maintenance and safekeeping; and all repairs thereto shall
be made at the expense of the owner, whether such repairs shall be made
necessary by ordinary wear and tear or other causes. Bills for such repairs, if
made by the borough, shall be due and payable immediately upon completion of
such repairs and shall be collected in the same manner as quarterly bills for
sewer rentals or charges.
   (C)   Meter readings. The borough shall be responsible for the reading of
all meters or other measuring devices and the same shall be available to the
borough at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.21 ADMISSION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES INTO THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Approval required for industrial wastes. The discharge into the sewer
system of industrial wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 ppm;
      (2)   A suspended solids content greater than 350 ppm;
      (3)   An average daily flow greater than 5% of the average daily sewage
flow at the sewage treatment plant; or
      (4)   Any quantity of substances possessing characteristics described in
§
53.22(B) shall be subject to prior review and approval of the borough.
   (B)   Preliminary treatment and handling of industrial wastes.
      (1)   Whenever necessary, in the opinion of the borough, the owner of an
improved property shall provide, at his or her expense, such facilities for
preliminary treatment and handling of industrial wastes as may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce BOD to 300 ppm and suspended solids to 350 ppm;
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to come
within the maximum limits permitted in this subchapter; or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge over a 24-hour day
and seven-day week.
      (2)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed facilities for preliminary treatment and handling of industrial
wastes shall be submitted for approval to the borough and no construction of
any such facility shall be commenced until approval thereof first shall have
been obtained, in writing, from the borough, and until approval thereof first
shall have been obtained from any governmental regulatory body having
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Whenever facilities for preliminary treatment and handling of
industrial wastes shall have been provided by the owner of such improved
property, such facilities continuously shall be maintained, at the expense of
such owner, in satisfactory operating condition; and the borough shall have
access to such facilities at reasonable times for purposes of inspection and
testing.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.22 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   No person, except upon written permission of the borough, shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted
industrial or commercial process water into any sewer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described wastes or
waters into the sewer system:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 ppm of fats, oils or
greases;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, solvent or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas which, by reason of its nature or
quality, may cause fire or explosion or which, in any other way, may be
injurious to persons or the sewer system or the sewage treatment plant;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, shall be capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into any sewer or the sewage
treatment plant for maintenance and repair;
      (5)   Any garbage, except properly chopped garbage;
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
bones, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, butchers offal or any
other solid or viscous substance which shall be capable of causing obstruction
to the flow in any sewer or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewer system or the sewage treatment plant;
      (7)   Any water or waste having a pH (as determined by the borough) lower
than 5.0 or higher than 9.0 or having any corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures or equipment of the sewer system or the sewage
treatment plant or to personnel engaged in operation and maintenance thereof;
      (8)   Any water or waste containing any toxic substance in quantity
sufficient to constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to interfere with any
sewage treatment process of the sewage treatment plant or that will pass
through the sewage treatment plant in such condition so that it will exceed
state, federal or other validly existing requirements for the receiving stream;
      (9)   Any water or waste containing total solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense shall be required to handle such
water or waste at the sewage treatment plant for sewage treatment processes;
and
      (10)   Any drainage from building construction.
   (C)   The borough reserves the right to refuse permission to connect to the
sewer system, to compel discontinuance of use of the sewer system or to compel
pretreatment of industrial wastes in order to prevent discharges deemed harmful
or to have a deleterious effect upon any portion of the sewer system.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
any special agreement or arrangement between the borough and any person whereby
industrial wastes of unusual strength or character may be admitted into the
sewer system by the borough, either before or after preliminary treatment.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.23 REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES INTO THE SEWER
SYSTEM.
   (A)   Required survey data. Any person desiring to make a connection to the
sewer system through which industrial wastes shall be discharged into the sewer
system shall file with the borough an industrial wastes report, which shall
supply pertinent data, including estimated quantity of flow and chemical and
bacteriological analyses, to the borough with respect to industrial wastes
proposed to be discharged into the sewer system.
   (B)   Screening and holding tanks.
      (1)   Industrial establishments shall install fine screens to remove
husks, hulls, vegetable skins, peelings, threads, lint, grease and other such
non-settleable and floating solids, or other organic or inorganic substances,
determined by the borough to overload, impair the efficiency of or cause
difficulties in operation of the sewage treatment plant used to treat and
dispose of the wastes or in maintaining required quality of the sewage
treatment plant effluent.
      (2)   Any improved property discharging 20,000 gallons or more of
sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes per day into the sewer system and
having large variations in the rate of discharge of such within a 24-hour
period shall install suitable holding tanks for equalizing the rate of
discharge uniformly over the entire 24-hour period. The average rate of
discharge during any 24-hour period shall not be exceeded by more than 50% at
any time during such 24-hour period.
   (C)   Control manholes.
      (1)   Any person who shall discharge industrial wastes into the sewer
system, when required by the borough, shall construct and thereafter properly
shall maintain, at his or her own expense, a suitable control manhole to
facilitate observation, measurement and sampling by the borough.
      (2)   Any such control manhole, when required by the borough, shall be
constructed at an accessible, safe, suitable and satisfactory location in
accordance with plans approved by the borough prior to commencement of
construction.
   (D)   Sewage sampling. Industrial wastes being discharged into the sewer
system shall be subject to periodic sampling, inspection and determination of
character and concentration. Such sampling, inspection and determination shall
be made by the borough as frequently as may be deemed necessary. Representative
samples for a full working day shall be obtained by taking hourly samples and
compositing them in accordance with the flow at the time of sampling. Sewage
sampling facilities shall be accessible to the borough at all times. Due care
shall be exercised in the collection and preservation of all samples to ensure
preservation thereof in as nearly the natural state as possible, including
refrigeration of all samples which are intended for analysis by biochemical
methods.
   (E)   Analysis.
      (1)   The borough shall be responsible for analysis of samples of
industrial wastes, at such intervals as the borough shall determine or at the
request and expense of the industrial establishment.
      (2)   Laboratory methods used in the analysis of samples of industrial
wastes shall be those set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Sewage as published by the American Public Health
Association; provided, however, that alternate methods for the analysis of
industrial wastes may be used, subject to mutual agreement between the borough
and the person discharging such industrial wastes into the sewer system.
   (F)   Changes in type of wastes. Any owner of an improved property who is
discharging or permitting to be discharged industrial wastes into the sewer
system and who contemplates a change in the method of operation which will
alter the type of industrial wastes at the time being discharged into the sewer
system shall notify the borough, in writing, at least ten days prior to
consummation of such change.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.24 ACCESS.
   The borough shall have the right of access at reasonable times to any part
of any improved property served by the sewer system as shall be required for
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing and for
performance of other functions relating to service rendered by the borough
through the sewer system.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.25 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF IMPROVED PROPERTY.
   The owner of each improved property connected to the sewer system shall be
responsible for all acts of tenants or other occupants of such improved
property in so far as such acts shall be governed by provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
§ 53.26 ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, such additional
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper in connection with
use and operation of the sewer system, which rules and regulations shall be,
shall become and shall be construed as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 8-27-1962)
WATER RATES
§ 53.40 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Metered service. Except upon special written permission granted by the
borough and upon good cause shown, each billing unit shall be required to have
installed a water meter or water meters to measure the quantity of water
consumed by such billing unit.
   (B)   Metered rate schedule. Such water rentals or charges shall be computed
in accordance with the following metered rate schedule; subject, however, to
the minimum water rentals or charges provided in this section:
      (1)   Per quarter metered water use: minimum: $52.20 for first 4,000
gallons or less per quarter year; and
      (2)   Above 4,000 gallons per quarter year: rate is $7.02 for each and
every additional 1,000 gallons above the first 4,000 gallons.
(Ord. 1-1974, passed 2-4-1974; Ord. 1-1975, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 4-1985,
passed 9-9-1985; Ord. 7-1989, passed 12-28-1989; Ord. 1-2004, passed 3-8-2004;
Ord. 9-2005, passed 12-27-2005; Ord. 01-2007, passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 2-2008,
passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 11-2009, passed 12-28-2009; Ord. 2010-5, passed 12-27-
2011; Ord. 2013-6, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2013-7, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 8-
2022, passed 12-26-2022)
TAPPING AND CONNECTION FEES
§ 53.55 IMPLEMENTATION AND INTERPRETATION OF ACTS 203 AND 209 OF 1990.
   The borough hereby adopts and incorporates into this subchapter and any
amendments thereto the definitions where applicable as set forth in Act 203 of
1990, being 8 Pa.C.S.A. § 2051 and Act 209 of 1990, being 8 Pa.C.S.A. § 2053.
The borough intends to implement the provisions of Act 203 of 1990, being 8
Pa.C.S.A. § 2051 and Act 209 of 1990, being 8 Pa.C.S.A. § 2053 in setting
certain fees in connection with the borough sewer system.
(Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.56 CONNECTION FEE.
   A connection fee, as said term is described in Act 203 of 1990, being 8
Pa.C.S.A. § 2051 of the commonwealth, which Act was enacted on December 19,
1990, and as authorized by § 507-A of Act No. 209 of 1990, being 8 Pa.C.S.A. §
2053 of the commonwealth, enacted on December 19, 1990, is hereby imposed for
any connection hereafter made to the sewer system of the borough.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.57 AMOUNT EQUAL TO COSTS INCURRED.
   If applicable, the connection fee to the sewer system shall be in an amount
equal to the actual costs incurred by the borough in making such connection.
Such costs shall include, by way of illustration and not limitation, labor
costs, equipment rental fees, reasonable equipment use charges and costs of all
materials utilized in such connection.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.58 DEPOSIT.
   Each request for a connection to the sewer system shall be accompanied by a
deposit in the amount of $1,000. A request for each such deposit shall be held
by the borough in a non-interest bearing account and shall be utilized by the
borough for payment of actual costs incurred in the making of such connection.
Upon completion of the connection and the payment of all costs related thereto,
the borough shall return any remaining and unspent portion of the deposit to
the person who made the application for the connection and paid the deposit. In
the event the actual costs of the connection(s) exceed $1,000, the amount of
the costs in excess of the deposit(s) shall be billed to the owner of the real
property serviced by the connection. No sewer service shall be provided to the
real property to be serviced by such connection or connections until such time
as any such additional costs have been paid in full to the borough.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.59 TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   A tapping fee as that term is defined by the Act of Assembly 2003-57
for the privilege of connecting an economic unit located in the borough to the
public wastewater treatment and collection system is hereby established and
imposed in the amount of $3,500, as follows:
      (1)   Connection fee: actual cost;
      (2)   Customer facilities fee: actual cost, customer is required to
arrange, have constructed and pay the cost directly to an independent
contractor subject to the work being inspected by the borough; and
      (3)   Tapping fee:
         (a)   Capacity part: $1,400;
         (b)   Distribution part: $2,100;
         (c)   Special part: no charge;
         (d)   Reimbursement part: no charge; and
         (e)   Total tapping fee: $3,500.
   (B)   Said tapping fee shall be paid by written application to the borough
and a receipt issued therefore prior to the issuance of a permit for the work.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000; Ord. 4-2005,
passed 6-27-2005; Ord. 5-2005, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 53.60 COMPUTATION OF TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   The allowable basis for such fee in accord with Act of Assembly 2003-
57 has been calculated by the Authority Engineer and is attached to Ord. 5-
2005, marked Exhibit “A” and made a part of this code of ordinances hereof as
if set out in full herein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ECONOMIC UNIT. Any unit of any improved or to be improved property,
whether for lease or sale, occupied by owner or tenant, vacant or occupied
which shall be or has been constructed or altered for the purpose of use for
human habitation or for the purpose or use for purposes other than human
habitation independently of any other unit on said property and is being so
used or about to be so used. For purposes of this section, apartments and
multiple dwelling units in the same building or independent, self-sufficient
dwelling areas located on the same lot or in the same building as a
nonresidential use or uses shall be considered INDIVIDUAL ECONOMIC UNITS for
purposes of imposing and/or calculating the tapping fee to be paid for the
privilege of connecting the property to the public wastewater treatment and
collection system of the borough.
      IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property located within the borough upon which a
building or structure is located which is intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals, and which may be
connected or about to be connected to the public wastewater treatment and
collection system.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000; Ord. 5-2005,
passed 6-27-2005)
§ 53.61 METHOD FOR DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF ECONOMIC UNITS APPLICABLE.
   The methods for determining the number of economic units applicable to each
improved property or property to be improved in the area served by the sewer
system are set forth in Exhibit “A” attached to the ordinance codified and made
a part of this code of ordinances as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.62 PAYMENT OF TAPPING FEE.
   The tapping fee shall be due and payable at the time application is made to
the borough to make any such connection to the sewer system as provided in this
subchapter, or, if applicable, the date when the borough causes the connection
of any such improved property to the sewer system, at the cost and expense of
the owner, pursuant to the provisions of the ordinance then in effect. This
borough reserves the right to require that no capacity shall be guaranteed for
a property owner until such time as the tapping fee shall have been paid in
full.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.63 TAPPING FEE CALCULATION.
   (A)   The calculation and itemization of the maximum tapping fees is set
forth in Exhibit “B” attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part
of this code of ordinances as if set out in full.
   (B)   This borough is not imposing nor charging a customer facilities fee
because it is not the policy of this borough to construct the building sewer
from the property line or curb to the improved dwelling or building to be
served.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.64 PAYMENT TO TREASURER.
   All tapping fees imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be payable to the
Treasurer of this borough or to such other officer or representative of this
borough as shall be authorized, from time to time, to accept payment thereof.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.65 COLLECTION OF TAPPING FEES.
   Payment of tapping fees imposed by this borough shall be enforced by this
borough in any manner appropriate under law in effect at the time of such
enforcement.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 53.66 SUBCHAPTER AMENDMENTS.
   This borough may, from time to time, adopt modifications of, supplements to
or amendments of this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-1992, passed 7-27-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 7-10-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
      
73.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
74.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Editor’s note:
   All regulations regarding specific speed limits, one-way streets and parking
are on file in the borough offices.
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Regulating traffic on the highways of the borough
   
70.02   Enforcement of restricting parking
   
70.03   Notice of parking violations
   
70.04   Form of traffic tag
   
70.05   Issuance of traffic tag
   
70.06   Procedure after issuance of traffic tag
   
70.07   Borough Secretary as Traffic Clerk
   
70.08   Commercial vehicles prohibited on borough property
   
70.09   Trespass by motor vehicle
   
70.10   Sign placement
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 REGULATING TRAFFIC ON THE HIGHWAYS OF THE BOROUGH.
   The Mayor of the borough may regulate traffic, prohibit parking and prohibit
other than one-way traffic on the highways, streets and alleys of the borough
by semaphores, traffic signals, signs, markings or such other devices that may
be placed upon or along the streets, highways and alleys of the borough for
this purpose, including the time, place and manner in which vehicles may be
parked, subject to such modification or change as Council may, by resolution,
from time to time, make.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-1-1929; Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-
1966)
§ 70.02 ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Police officers engaged in the enforcement of this chapter are
authorized to take measures allowed by law as may be necessary to determine the
length of time such vehicles have been standing in a restricted parking area.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall act in any way with the purpose of evading the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
      (2)   The act listed above shall be deemed a violation of this Traffic
Code.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 NOTICE OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   Operators of vehicles parked in violation of this chapter may be notified of
the violation by attaching a traffic tag to the vehicle.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 70.04 FORM OF TRAFFIC TAG.
   (A)   The traffic tag shall consist of a heavy paper tag, divided into two
identically serially numbered parts by a perforated line. The upper part shall
contain a notice of the violation and shall be attached to the vehicle. The
lower part of stub shall contain a report of the violation and shall be filed
with the Traffic Clerk.
   (B)   The traffic tag shall be substantially in the following form:
                     Notice of Parking Violation
                     Borough of Topton
No.                  Berks County, Pennsylvania
                     BUREAU OF POLICE
Date................ Vehicle License............
You are charged with violating parking regulations indicated hereon.
   (Violations of the Topton Ordinance)
1.   Exceeding 20-minute parking limit
2.   Exceeding 1-hour parking limit
3.   Exceeding 2-hour parking limit
4.   Exceeding 20-minute parking limit after 2:00 a.m.
5.   Parking where no parking is permitted
6.   Blocking garage entrance
7.   Parking on wrong side of street
 
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966; Ord. 3-1971, passed 10-
4-1971; Ord. 9-1979, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 70.05 ISSUANCE OF TRAFFIC TAG.
   (A)   The officer shall indicate the violation on both parts of the tag,
fill in all available information, and attach the same to the door handle of
the vehicle or under the windshield wiper blade.
   (B)   The Traffic Clerk shall fill in the name of the owner and his or her
address, on the stub.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 70.06 PROCEDURE AFTER ISSUANCE OF TRAFFIC TAG.
   (A)   Any person or operator receiving a notice of a parking violation
established by the borough, by the Mayor of the borough, or established by the
Motor Vehicle Code of the commonwealth, and who does not wish to contest said
charge, may pay a fine as specified on the traffic tag to the Traffic Clerk
within 72 hours after the time of the alleged violation, and no further
proceedings shall be taken against said person. The fine shall be deposited in
the borough fund for general borough purposes.
   (B)   If said fine is not paid within 72 hours after the time of the alleged
violation, the police officer making the charge shall immediately file a
complaint or information before the district justice and the violation shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the procedures applicable to the violation of a
borough ordinance in such cases where the alleged violation is a violation of a
parking regulation of the borough, or in accordance with the procedures
applicable to a violation of the Motor Vehicle Code of the commonwealth in the
case where the alleged parking violation is a violation of said Motor Vehicle
Code.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside at Traffic Court. The owner or operator who
appears at Traffic Court in response to the notice, provided for in division
(B) above, may settle the charge before a hearing is held by paying $2 to the
Traffic Clerk for the use of the borough.
   (D)   In case the operator appears and fails to settle the Mayor or Traffic
Clerk shall hold a preliminary hearing to determine whether or not an
information should be lodged. If he or she decides the evidence does not
warrant the issuance of an information, the case shall be closed without
further proceedings.
   (E)   If he or she decides an information should be lodged, the operator may
settle the charge by paying $3 to the Traffic Clerk for the use of the borough.
   (F)   In case the owner or operator fails to appear at said session of
Traffic Court, or having appeared fails to settle after a preliminary hearings,
the officer who attached the tag to the vehicle shall lodge an information
against him or her before a justice of the peace, who is acting as police
magistrate, and thereafter the said justice of the peace shall follow procedure
authorized for summary proceedings under the Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966; Ord. 3-1971, passed 10-
4-1971; Ord. 9-1979, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 70.07 BOROUGH SECRETARY AS TRAFFIC CLERK.
   The Borough Secretary is hereby designated as the Traffic Clerk.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 70.08 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON BOROUGH PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to enter borough property, including
borough parks and recreational areas, water or sewer treatment plant areas, or
the property of any borough-owned building with a commercial vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 10,000 pounds or more, with the exception
of the following:
   (A)   The making of deliveries of goods or supplies ordered by or on behalf
of the borough, or other official borough business;
   (B)   Emergency vehicles responding or preparing to respond to an emergency
where there is an imminent threat to health or safety;
   (C)   To take refuge from emergency conditions where there is an imminent
threat to health or safety, provided that the vehicle is removed once the
imminent threat has ended; or
   (D)   As authorized by the Borough Manager or designee of the Borough
Manager.
(Ord. 7-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 70.09 TRESPASS BY MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person violating § 70.08, above, shall be deemed to be in violation of
Section 3717 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. § 3717, titled
“Trespass by Motor Vehicle,” and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
a fine of $50, plus costs of prosecution, in addition to fines and penalties
which may be assessed under 75 Pa.C.S. § 3717(e), (f), and (g).
(Ord. 7-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 70.10 SIGN PLACEMENT.
   The placement of signs on borough property, prohibiting entry of
unauthorized vehicles and/or warning of penalties for unauthorized entry or use
of borough property, is hereby authorized, and any such signage in place is
hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 7-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating any parking regulations of the borough
shall, upon summary conviction, by the district justice or by any other court
having jurisdiction thereof, by sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $15
nor more than $50 and the costs of prosecution and in default of payment
thereof shall undergo imprisonment in the county prison for not more than five
days.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-1-1929; Ord. 263, passed 10-2-1950; Ord. 360, passed 5-2-
1966; Ord. 3-1971, passed 10-4-1971; Ord. 9-1979, passed 10-1-1979)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 4-
2020, adopted 9-14-2020). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 5-
2020, adopted 11-19-2020). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
Section
Parking of Boats, Boat Trailers, Travel Trailers, Truck Tractors and the Like
   
71.01   Parking
   
71.02   Additional parking restrictions
   
71.03   Additional provisions
Parking Rules
   
71.15   Generally
   
71.16   Parking rules
   
71.17   Parking at curb
   
71.18   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
71.19   Signs
   
71.20   Parking prohibited in spaces designated for disabled persons
   
71.21   Presumption of liability
   
71.22   Form of traffic tag
   
71.23   Enforcement
Abandoned Vehicles
   
71.30   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
71.31   Removal and impoundment
   
71.32   Notification of impoundment
   
71.33   Payment of charges by owner
   
71.34   Records kept
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING OF BOATS, BOAT TRAILERS, TRAVEL TRAILERS,
TRUCK TRACTORS AND THE LIKE
§ 71.01 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
commercial vehicle having a gross chassis weight of 5,000 pounds or more; truck
tractors having a gross chassis weight of 3,000 pounds or more; trailers having
a combined weight of chassis and body, if so constructed, exclusive of load of
3,000 pounds or more; semitrailers have a combined weight of chassis and body,
if so constructed, exclusive of load, of 3,000 pounds or more on any street,
alley or highway of the borough, at any time where indicated by a duly erected
parking regulation sign authorized by ordinance or resolution of the borough.
Parking of certain oversized vehicles is prohibited.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ADDITIONAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No motorized vehicle having a length of greater than 24 feet shall be
parked on any publicly dedicated street in the borough for a period in excess
of 24 hours.
   (B)   In addition, the only allowed purpose for parking said vehicle shall
be for the loading and unloading of said vehicle.
      (1)   In the event that any such motorized vehicle shall be parked on a
publicly dedicated street of the borough for a period of 24 hours or less for
the purposes of loading and unloading said vehicle, said vehicle must be
removed from said parked location for a period of at least 72 hours.
      (2)   At no time shall any nonmotorized vehicle, trailer, travel trailer,
house trailer, slide-in camper, boat, fifth-wheel vehicle or any other similar
nonmotorized vehicle be parked on any publicly dedicated street in the borough.
      (3)   No motorized or nonmotorized vehicle of any length shall be parked
in any undedicated alley or right-of-way which causes the obstruction of
vehicular use of said undedicated alley or right-of- way for emergency
vehicles.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A motorized or nonmotorized vehicle having a length of 38 feet or less
may be stored on any property, provided that said place of storage shall not be
within five feet of any side or rear lot line, and said vehicle shall be parked
in an area that has been properly prepared with a suitable material for the
parking of such vehicle. In no event shall it be parked in the front yard,
unless said area is part of the driveway for the property.
   (B)   No motorized or nonmotorized vehicle shall be:
      (1)   Used for purposes of habitation;
      (2)   Used for the storage of goods, materials, equipment other than
those items which are part of said vehicle or trailer or boat or essential for
its immediate use;
      (3)   Permanently connected to sewer lines, waterlines or any power
source. A vehicle may be temporarily connected to a power source for recharging
batteries or for another use for preparation purposes; and
      (4)   At no time shall any person perform any work on said vehicle or
cause the engine of the vehicle to be operated for a period of ten consecutive
minutes.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING RULES
§ 71.15 GENERALLY.
   Members of the Northeastern Berks Regional Police Department and special
police assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to regulate traffic and
parking on borough streets and alleys in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, or in emergencies, as public safety or convenience may require, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order, signal or direction of a police officer, except in case of emergency it
shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to
direct traffic.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 PARKING RULES.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except where necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or compliance with the regulations of a police officer or traffic-
control devices:
   (A)   In any in intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or approach
thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet or 9.15 meters of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on
the approaching side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet or 6.10 meters of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for
in moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   Within 15 feet or 4.57 meters of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 50 feet or 15.15 meters of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet or 6.10 meters of the driveway entrance to any Fire
Department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within 75 feet or 22.87 meters of such entrance when properly
posted;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway; and
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Borough Council
shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 71.20 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPACES DESIGNATED FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle in
a stall or space designed for physically handicapped persons, if, immediately
adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, there is posted a sign known
as the international wheelchair symbol consisting of a profile view of a
stylized wheelchair with occupant in white on a blue background, unless the
driver of the car is disabled.
   (B)   As used in this section, DISABLED means either having a physical
condition requiring the use of a wheelchair, artificial limb, crutch, cane or
walker, or having a physical disease making it difficult or impossible to walk
more than 25 feet without shortness of breath or danger of impairment of
health. A certificate by a person licensed to practice the healing arts in this
commonwealth shall be acceptable by the borough as evidence under this section.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall apply to all off-street
parking facilities owned or operated by the borough or by any privately owned
or operated parking lot.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the
names of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 71.22 FORM OF TRAFFIC TAG.
   The traffic tag shall be substantially in the form attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof as Exhibit “A” and made a part of this
code of ordinances hereof as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 71.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer shall have the authority to affix upon any vehicle
parked in violation of any provision of this subchapter, a traffic tag giving
notice of that violation and notifying the owner and/or operation of that
illegally parked vehicle that if he or she shall pay the sum indicated on the
violation notice at the office of the Northeastern Berks Regional Police
Department within 72 hours from the time of the notice, such amount shall be
deemed as and shall constitute the full penalty for that violation.
   (B)   If such payment shall not be made at the office within the 72-hour
period, that violation shall be subject to prosecution and to the penalties
prescribed in §
71.99(C).
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 71.30 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any portion of any of the
streets, alleys, or other public property of the borough for the parking or
storage of any abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, an ABANDONED VEHICLE shall be defined
as any vehicle (other than a pedacycle) which:
      (1)   Is inoperable and left unattended for a period of 48 hours or more;
      (2)   Has remained on a borough street, alley, or other public property
for a period of 48 hours or more; or
      (3)   Is without a valid registration, license plate, or inspection
sticker.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 71.31 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Police Department having jurisdiction in the borough
is hereby authorized to remove and impound, or order the removal and
impoundment, of:
      (1)   Any abandoned vehicle parked on the streets, roads, alleys, or
other public property of the borough; or
      (2)   Any vehicle parked on the streets, roads, alleys, or other public
property of the borough in violation of applicable law or borough ordinance.
   (B)   Vehicles shall be removed or impounded in accordance with Section 3352
of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3352.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 71.32 NOTIFICATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Within 12 hours from the time of removal of any vehicle under authority of
this subchapter, notice of the fact that the vehicle has been impounded shall
be sent by the Chief of Police to the owner of record of the vehicle. This
notice shall designate the place from which the vehicle was removed, the reason
(s) for the removal and impoundment, and the place of impoundment.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 71.33 PAYMENT OF CHARGES BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for the payment of all
towing, impoundment, and storage charges as follows:
      (1)   Payment without protest. The payment of any towing, impoundment,
and storage charges authorized by this subchapter shall, unless payment is made
“under protest,” be final and conclusive, and shall constitute a waiver of any
right to recover the money so paid.
      (2)   Payment under protest. In the event that any towing, storage, or
impoundment charges are paid “under protest,” by the owner, the owner shall be
entitled to a hearing before a magisterial district judge, in which case the
owner shall be proceeded against and shall receive the notice as it is provided
by the vehicle code in other cases of summary criminal offenses, and shall have
the same rights to appear and waiver of hearing.
   (B)   The payment of towing, storage, and impoundment charges shall not
operate to relieve the owner or operator of any vehicle from liability for any
fine or penalty for the violation of any law or ordinance under which the
vehicle was removed or impounded.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 71.34 RECORDS KEPT.
   The Chief of Police having jurisdiction in the borough shall keep a record
of all vehicles impounded and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish
the owners or agents of the owners thereof with information on the place of
storage of all vehicles.
(Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §§
71.01 through
71.03 shall be subject to a fine not in excess of $500.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.23, shall upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more that $15
plus costs.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of the Pennsylvania Motor
Vehicle Code, shall upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $15 plus costs.
   (D)   Any person who shall park a vehicle in violation of the restrictions
established by §§
71.30 through
71.34 shall, upon conviction thereof by a magisterial district judge in an
action brought in the same manner as for summary offenses as set forth in the
Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be sentenced to pay a fine which
shall not be less than $35 nor more than $300, and the costs of prosecution,
and in default of payment thereof, shall be imprisoned for not more than five
days.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 03-03, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 2-2020,
passed 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 72: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 2-
2020, adopted 8-10-2020). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
72.01   Designation of towing and vehicle impoundment procedures
   
72.02   Designation of approved towing and storage providers; bonding;
insurance
   
72.03   Authority to remove and impound
   
72.04   Presumption of abandonment
   
72.05   Notice to owner of intent to remove and impound
   
72.06   Report to designated official
   
72.07   Towing notice required
   
72.08   Notice to owner
   
72.09   Reclamation costs
   
72.10   Right to hearing; right to appeal
   
72.11   Fixed towing and storage charges
§ 72.01 DESIGNATION OF TOWING AND VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   For the preservation of public peace, health and safety, Borough Council is
hereby authorized and directed to designate a towing service for removal of
vehicles, and a storage garage or garages as an official vehicle pound or
pounds to which vehicles towed and impounded as hereinafter provided shall be
removed.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION OF APPROVED TOWING AND STORAGE PROVIDERS; BONDING;
INSURANCE.
   Any garage or garages designated by the Borough Council as aforesaid as an
official provider of towing or impoundment services, shall be bonded and
insured in an adequate amount to indemnify the owner and/or encumbrance holder
of any such vehicle intended to be impounded therein, providing settlement
against the loss thereof or injury or damage thereto, while in the custody of
such pound keeper, and such insurance coverage shall cover the liability of the
borough and its duly elected or appointed officials in administering this
chapter, against any and all claims for the loss, injury or damage of a vehicle
so removed and/or impounded.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.03 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
   Whenever any vehicle shall be found wrecked, abandoned or parked on the
streets, highways or public property of the borough in violation of any borough
ordinance or the Vehicle Code of the commonwealth, now or hereafter in force,
or shall be seized by due process of law, such vehicle shall be removed by
towing, upon the authorization of the designated official, to an official
vehicle pound; provided, however, that no vehicle shall be towed away from the
place where it is found, if at the time of the intended removal the owner or
person for the time being in charge thereof, is present and shall express a
willingness and intention to immediately remove the vehicle, provided that the
vehicle has not been loaded onto the towing vehicle. In the event that the
vehicle is parked or stalled along a designated snow emergency route during a
declared snow emergency; is stopped, parked or stalled on a borough street in a
manner as to be obstructing traffic or creating any hazard to public health,
safety or welfare; or if a vehicle is parked in an area designated by signs as
a no parking zone, reasonable attempts shall be made to notify the owner of the
vehicle to remove it, but if the owner cannot be reached, fails or refuses to
immediately remove the vehicle, or if the vehicle presents a danger due to its
condition or location, the vehicle may be towed and impounded immediately,
without notice or further notice, at the cost and expense of the owner, as set
forth in §
72.05.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.04 PRESUMPTION OF ABANDONMENT.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a vehicle which has remained at one
location for a period exceeding 30 days at any of the locations prohibited in
this section, shall be prima facie evidence of abandonment, and any vehicle so
located which does not bear both a current vehicle registration plate and a
current inspection sticker for a period in excess of 30 days shall be
conclusively deemed to be abandoned.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.05 NOTICE TO OWNER OF INTENT TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
   If a vehicle has been presumed to be abandoned as set forth in §
72.04, a notice shall be placed on the vehicle stating that the vehicle has
been presumed to be abandoned, and will be towed and impounded if not removed
within seven days of the date of notice. In the event that in the judgment of a
police agency having jurisdiction the presence of a vehicle due to its
condition or location presents a threat to public safety, the vehicle shall be
removed and impounded immediately, with or without notice to the owner, at the
sole cost and expense of the owner.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.06 REPORT TO DESIGNATED OFFICIAL.
   The designated official directing the removal of any vehicle shall
immediately make a report thereof to the Borough Manager, giving the
registration plate number and the location of the vehicle pound to which such
vehicle has been removed and the reason for its removal, and within 12 hours
from the time of the removal of any vehicle (provided that the vehicle has not
already been released from the vehicle pound).
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.07 TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   The designated official removing or directing the removal of any vehicle
under the provision of this chapter shall affix securely a towing notice form
in a prominent place on such vehicle, such form to bear the license number of
the vehicle, the date, time, place and nature of the violation, a list of all
visible defects and damage at the time of removal and the name or identifying
badge number of the officer removing or directing the removal of such a
vehicle. Such towing notice form shall be made out in triplicate and shall be
identified by a separate number on each original notice form, the same number
to appear on all copies of the form. The triplicate copy shall be mailed to the
owner of record of the vehicle, the borough, and the provider of towing and
impoundment services.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.08 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Upon receiving a report of the removal of a vehicle, the Borough Manager
shall notify the owner of record of such vehicle by certified mail, return
receipt requested, that the same has been impounded, such notice to designate
the place from which the vehicle was removed, the reason for its removal and
impounding, and the vehicle pound in which it has been impounded. The Borough
Manager shall keep a record of all vehicles so impounded and shall be able at
all times to furnish the owners or agents thereof with information as to the
place where such vehicle has been impounded. During any period of absence from
the borough, the Borough Manager shall designate an official to carry out the
duties imposed upon the Borough Manager by this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.09 RECLAMATION COSTS.
   Before the owner or owner’s agent shall be permitted to remove an impounded
vehicle from such vehicle pound he or she shall pay to the owner of the
impoundment lot all costs of towing and storage. The owner may make payment
“under protest” in order to preserve rights of appeal set forth in this and
other borough ordinances under which the owner or owner’s agent may be cited.
The payment of the towing and/or storage charges shall not operate to relieve
the owner of such vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty imposed for
violation of any law or ordinance on account of which the vehicle was
impounded; provided, however, that payment of such charges, unless made “under
protest” shall be final and conclusive, and shall constitute a waiver of any
right to recover the money so paid.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.10 RIGHT TO HEARING; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   In the event that towing and/or storage charges are paid “under protest”,
the owner and/or owner’s agent shall be entitled to a hearing before the
magisterial district judge or court of record having jurisdiction of the
matter, in which case the owner and/or agent shall be proceeded against and
receive such notice as is provided for cases of a similar nature by the Vehicle
Code of the commonwealth, and shall have the same right of appeal. In the event
that the magisterial district judge or judge of the court of record, in
accordance with law, shall acquit the owner and/or agent, said magisterial
district judge or judge of the court of record shall forthwith certify to the
borough the order of acquittal, and the borough shall, within five days, refund
to the owner or owner’s agent the amount of said towing and/or storage charges
paid.
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 72.11 FIXED TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The Borough Council shall fix and establish charges for the towing and
storage of motor vehicles impounded under the terms of this chapter, which
shall are set out below. These charges may be amended by resolution of Borough
Council from time to time. The charges as so fixed and amended from time to
time shall be the maximum charges permissible under the terms hereof.
Fee Schedule
Fee Schedule
Getz Service Station, Inc.
10635 Hamilton Boulevard
Breinigsville, PA 18031
Phone: 610 395-9413
Fax: 610 395-3442
Topton Borough Tow Rates
2018—2019
Abandoned vehicle removal            $175
   Dollies/go jacks               $40 additional if needed
   Skates                         $25 additional if needed
RV/boat or specialty vehicle storage $65 a day
   *No storage fee will apply if picked up within 24 hours
Snow emergency removal               $150
Storage                              $50 a day
Other services that can be provided:
   24-hour flatbed and towing service
   Flat tire service and jump starts
   Vehicle lock out service
 
(Ord. 3-2018, passed 5-14-2018)
CHAPTER 73: SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Snow emergency routes designated
   
73.03   Authorization of signs designating snow emergency routes
   
73.04   Declaration of snow emergency
   
73.05   Restrictions on driving and parking along snow emergency routes
   
73.06   Removal of vehicles
   
73.07   Citation of vehicle parked, left, or otherwise in violation of snow
emergency provisions
   
73.08   Evidence with respect to vehicles parked, left, or otherwise in
violation of snow emergency provisions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   MAYOR. The person elected or appointed to hold the office of Mayor of the
borough pursuant to the provisions of the Borough Code.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, co-partner, corporation, joint
stock company, syndicate, tenant, property owner (real or personal), occupant,
lessor, executor, administrator, or agent in control of a property.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A declaration by the Mayor, or the designee of the Mayor,
based upon falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or a prediction thereof, that
conditions exist requiring the restriction of traffic and parking on certain
borough streets for purposes of snow, sleet, or ice removal and abatement, and
to expedite the movement of emergency and official vehicles.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE. Those roads or streets designated and marked as such
in accordance with §
73.02.
   SNOW TIRES. Any tires mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles which are
specifically designed by the manufacturers to give effective traction on snow,
mud, or ice-covered streets by means of extra-duty treads with special high-
traction patterns, except that no tire so defined shall be construed to be a
snow tire if it is worn to less than three-sixteenth inches tread depth or is
damaged or worn to the extent that its performance would be substantially
impaired.
   TIRE CHAINS. Any hard metal chains mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles
which cross the tread of each tire laterally in at least eight different
places.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 73.02 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The following streets or portions of streets within the borough are
designated as snow emergency routes:
   (A)   Entire length of Centre Avenue from North Main Street to North Haas
Street, both sides.
   (B)   Henningsville Road from its beginning to the southern boundary line of
the borough, both sides.
   (C)   Weis Street from Hoch Avenue to Charles Drive, both sides.
   (D)   Haas Street from East Weis Street to Centre Avenue, both sides.
   (E)   High Street from North Main Street to the western boundary line of the
borough, both sides.
   (F)   West Franklin Street from Hoch Avenue to South Home Avenue, both
sides.
   (G)   Hoch Avenue from West Franklin Street to West Weis Street, both sides.
   (H)   South Callowhill Street from West Weis Street to West Franklin Street,
both sides.
   (I)   South Home Avenue from Weis Street to East Centre Avenue, both sides.
   (J)   Old Topton Road from Centre Avenue to the borough boundary line, both
sides.
   (K)   North Main Street from West Franklin Street to the northern borough
boundary line, both sides.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013; Ord. 2-2023, passed - -2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 AUTHORIZATION OF SIGNS DESIGNATING SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   In order to assist owners and operators of motor vehicles in determining
streets affected by this chapter, the borough shall cause to be placed on poles
along streets or portions of streets listed in §
73.02 signs indicating that the street or portion of street is a snow emergency
route. It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this chapter, for any person to
remove without the authorization of Borough Council any sign or notice posted
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or to obstruct, obscure, or
deface such a sign or notice.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor or the designee of the Mayor shall have the authority, based
upon falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or a prediction thereof, to declare
a snow emergency by proclamation, which shall put into effect the parking and
traffic restrictions contained in this chapter. The official declaring the snow
emergency shall make every effort to disseminate the proclamation to local
radio stations, television stations, newspapers, and the borough internet site,
but failure of a person prosecuted hereunder to have knowledge of the
proclamation shall not be a defense to such prosecution.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, a parking
prohibition shall automatically go into effect on any part of a snow emergency
route on which there has been an accumulation of snow and/or ice of four inches
or more between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. prevailing time.
   (C)   (1)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by an announcement by an official authorized herein to
declare a snow emergency except any street area that has become substantially
clear of snow or ice from curb to curb for the length of an entire block shall
automatically be excluded from the prohibition under this section.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is prohibited by law or by any other ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 73.05 RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING AND PARKING ALONG SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   In the event of a snow emergency, a parking prohibition shall be in
effect on all designated snow emergency routes, and the parking prohibition
shall remain in place as set forth in §
73.04(C).
   (B)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice shall allow that vehicle to become
stalled wholly or partly because its drive wheels are not equipped with tire
chains or snow tires providing effective traction, because the motor fuel
supply has been exhausted, or because the battery has become inoperative.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Code Official or designee of the Code Official, or police having
jurisdiction in the borough are authorized to order removed and impounded any
vehicle from a snow emergency route, or have it towed from a snow emergency
route when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a snow emergency route on which
a parking prohibition is in effect, or is about to interfere with snow removal
operations; or
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice and on which there is a parking
prohibition or other operating restriction in effect, and the owner or person
who is or was operating the vehicle does not appear to be removing it, or it
appears that the operator is not able to remove it.
   (B)   The towing, impoundment, and storage of a vehicle removed under this
section shall be at the sole cost and expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 73.07 CITATION OF VEHICLE PARKED, LEFT, OR OTHERWISE IN VIOLATION OF SNOW
EMERGENCY PROVISIONS.
   Whenever any motor vehicle is found parked, stalled, left, or otherwise in
violation of any provisions of this chapter, notice of violation shall be given
in the same manner as provided for parking violations.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 73.08 EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO VEHICLES PARKED, LEFT, OR OTHERWISE IN
VIOLATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY PROVISIONS.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked, stalled, left, or
otherwise in violation of any provision of this chapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked, stalled, left, or
otherwise in violation of this chapter, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint was at the time the registered owner of such vehicle,
shall constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who
parked, left, or otherwise operated the vehicle in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If at any time during a period of snow emergency, a person shall park
a motor vehicle or allow a motor vehicle to remain parked anywhere upon a snow
emergency route, that person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter
and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $50
plus costs of prosecution.
   (B)   If at any time during a period of snow emergency a person shall
operate a motor vehicle upon a snow emergency route without having that vehicle
equipped with snow tires or tire chains, or shall allow it to become stalled
along a snow emergency route, that person shall be guilty of a violation of
this chapter, and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $50 plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Stop Signs
   
74.01   Establishment of stop intersections
   
74.02   Duties at stop sign
   
74.03   Authorization to place stop signs
   
74.04   Ratification of signs in place
Speed Limits
   
74.10   Maximum speed limits established
   
74.11   Notice and posting of speed limit signs
   
74.12   Enforcement
 
   
74.99   Penalty
STOP SIGNS
§ 74.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections hereinafter listed are hereby designated as" stop
intersections" and official "STOP" signs shall be erected, or are ratified if
previously designated as stop intersections and stop signs erected, as follows:
STOP INTERSECTION STOP SIGN TO BE PLACED ON:
STOP INTERSECTION                       STOP SIGN TO BE PLACED ON:
North Main Street and East Cleveland    East Cleveland Street east of North
Street                                  Main Street
North Main Street and Washington Street Washington Street east and west of
                                        North Main Street
North Main Street and High Street       High Street east and west of North Main
                                        Street
North Main Street and Hemlock Drive     Hemlock Drive east of North Main Street
North Main Street and Centre Street     Centre Street east of North Main Street
North Main Street and West Franklin     West Franklin Street west of North Main
Street                                  Street
North Heffner Street and East           East Washington Street west of North
Washington Street                       Heffner Street
                                        North Heffner Street north and south of
North Heffner Street and East High      East High Street and on East High
Street                                  Street east and west of North Heffner
                                        Street
North Heffner Street and Centre Street  North Heffner Street north of Centre
                                        Street
West High Street and Cherry Street      Cherry Street north of West High Street
Furnace Street and Legislative Route    Furnace Street southeast of Legislative
06160                                   Route 06106
South Home Avenue and Centre Street     Centre Street east of South Home Avenue
South Home Avenue and Franklin Street   Franklin Street east and west of South
                                        Home Avenue
South Home Avenue and Broad Alley       Broad Alley east and west of South Home
                                        Avenue
South Home Avenue and East Barkley      East Barkley Street east of South Home
Street                                  Avenue
South Home Avenue and Smith Street      Smith Street east and west of South
                                        Home Avenue
South Home Avenue and Keller Street     Keller Street east and west of South
                                        Home Avenue
East Franklin Street and South Haas     East Franklin Street west of South Haas
Street                                  Street
South Haas Street and East Penn Street  East Penn Street east of South Haas
                                        Street
South Haas Street and East Smith Street East Smith Street east and west of
                                        South Haas Street
South Haas Street and East Weis Street  South Haas Street north and south of
                                        East Weis Street
East Penn Street and St. John Street    St. John Street north and south of East
                                        Penn Street
                                        St. John Street north and south of East
East Smith Street and St. John Street   Smith Street and on East Smith Street
                                        east and west of St. John Street
East Weis Street and St. John Street    St. John Street north of East Weis
                                        Street
East Weis Street and South Croll Street South Croll Street north and south of
                                        East Weis Street
East Weis Street and Birch Drive        Birch Drive north and south of East
                                        Weis Street
East Keller Street and South Croll      South Croll Street north of East Keller
Street                                  Street
East Smith Street and South Croll       South Croll Street north and south of
Street                                  East Smith Street
West Keller Street and Henningsville    West Keller Street east of
Road                                    Henningsville Road
Henningsville Road and West Weis Street Henningsville Road south of West Weis
                                        Street
West Weis Street and Pine Drive         Pine Drive north and south of West Weis
                                        Street
West Weis Street and South Cherry       South Cherry Street north of West Weis
Street                                  Street
West Weis Street and South Callowhill   South Callowhill Street north and south
Street                                  of West Weis Street
West Weis Street and West Barkley       West Barkley Street north of West Weis
Street                                  Street
South Cherry Street and West Barkley    West Barkley Street west of and across
Street                                  from South Cherry Street
                                        West Barkley Street east and west of
West Barkley Street and South           South Callowhill Street and on South
Callowhill Street                       Callowhill Street north and south of
                                        West Barkley Street
West Barkley Street and South Spruce    South Spruce Street north and south of
Street                                  West Barkley Street
Callowhill Street and West Franklin     West Franklin Street east and west of
Street                                  Callowhill Street
South Callowhill Street and Dogwood     Dogwood Drive east of South Callowhill
Drive                                   Street
West Franklin Street and Spruce Street  Spruce Street north and south of West
                                        Franklin Street
West Franklin Street and Cherry Street  Cherry Street north and south of West
                                        Franklin Street
South Cherry Street and Broad Alley     Broad Alley east and west of South
                                        Cherry Street
West Franklin Street and Klein Avenue   Klein Avenue south of West Franklin
                                        Street
East Center Avenue and North Haas       East Center Street west of North Haas
Street                                  Street and on North Haas Street north
                                        of East Center Avenue
Birch Drive and Broad Alley             Birch Drive south of Broad Alley
Cherry Alley and South Home Avenue      Cherry Alley west of South Home Avenue
East Keller Street / West Keller Street East Keller Street / West Keller Street
and South Home Avenue                   east and west of South Home Avenue
Hemlock Drive and North Haas Street     Hemlock Drive west of North Haas Street
Hemlock Drive and Heffner Street        Hemlock Drive east and west of Heffner
                                        Street
East High Street and North Haas Street  East High Street west of North Haas
                                        Street
Broad Alley and North Haas Street       Broad Alley west of North Haas Street
East Barkley Street and North Haas      East Barkley Street west of North Haas
Street                                  Street
Ash Drive and Haas Street               Ash Drive east of Haas Street
Adler Drive and Haas Street             Adler Drive west of Haas Street
Charles Drive and East Weis Street /    Charles Drive north of East Weis Street
State Street                            / State Street
Herbein Drive and West Weis Street      Herbein Drive north of West Weis Street
Hoch Avenue and West Weis Street        Hoch Avenue north of West Weis Street
West Franklin Street and Hoch Avenue    West Franklin Street east of Hoch
                                        Avenue
                                        West Franklin Street east and west of
West Franklin Street and North Herbein  North Herbein Drive/ South Herbein
Drive / South Herbein Drive             Drive and on North Herbein Drive/ South
                                        Herbein Drive north and south of West
                                        Franklin Street
Maple Drive/ Haas Street and Heffner    Maple Drive / Haas Street east and west
Street                                  of Heffner Street
 
(Ord. 09-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 74.02 DUTIES AT STOP SIGN. 
   Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the first-named or
stop street shall stop the vehicle as required by the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code, 75 Pa.C.S. Section 3323(b) (the "Code"), and shall not proceed into or
across the intersection until he or she has followed all applicable
requirements of that section of the Code.
(Ord. 09-2021, passed 11-8-2021) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 AUTHORIZATION TO PLACE STOP SIGNS.
   The Borough Council is authorized to place stop signs of the form and type
approved and authorized by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
(PennDOT), in the manner required under PennDOT regulations, for all stop
intersections.
(Ord. 09-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 74.04 RATIFICATION OF SIGNS IN PLACE.
   Any such signs currently in place setting forth the above-referenced stop
signs are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 09-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 74.10 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   Unless a lower speed limit has been specifically enacted, the speed limit on
the following borough streets shall be reduced to 25 miles per hour:
      Barkley Street
      Birch Drive
      Broad Alley
      Butcher Shop Lane
      Callowhill Street
      Caloric Circle
      Celia Avenue
      Centre Avenue
      Charles Drive
      Cherry Street
      Cleveland Street
      Croll Street
      Dogwood Drive
      Franklin Street
      Freehall Street
      Furnace Street
      Haas Street
      Hamsher Avenue
      Heffner Street
      Henningsville Road
      Herbein Drive
      High Street
      Hoch Avenue
      Home Avenue
      Jefferson Street
      Juliet Avenue
      Keller Street
      Klein Avenue
      Locust Street
      Main Street
      Maple Drive
      Marshall Avenue
      Meek Alley
      Old Topton Road
      Palm Drive
      Penn Street
      Pine Drive
      St. John Street
      Sisco Lane
      Smith Street
      Spruce Street
      Walnut Drive
      Washington Street
(Ord. 5-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 74.11 NOTICE AND POSTING OF SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   (A)   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, the borough shall
post the affected streets with official traffic control devices (speed limit
signs), erected and placed in accordance with the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S. § 3362(a)(1.2), and the regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation.
   (B)   Any speed limit signs and traffic control devices setting the speed
limit as provided in this subchapter which are already in place shall be
ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 5-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 74.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fleetwood Borough Police Department, any successor thereto authorized to
provide police services to the borough, and any other duly authorized law
enforcement officials of the commonwealth are hereby authorized to monitor,
control, and enforce the maximum speed limit set forth in this subchapter
pursuant to the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. § 3362(a)(1.2) and (c) by
the use of currently approved speed timing devices or such other electrical
speed timing devices or speed monitoring devices, as may hereafter be
authorized by the commonwealth.
(Ord. 5-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
74.01 through
74.04 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs, in
addition to fines, costs, and penalties prescribed by the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
74.10 through
74.12 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person
exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five miles per hour shall pay an
additional fine of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of five miles per hour
over the maximum speed limit. The penalties and/or fines imposed for violations
of §§
74.10 through
74.12 shall be in accordance with the penalty specified in the Pennsylvania
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. § 3362(c).
(Ord. 09-2021, passed 11-8-2021; Ord. 5-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Dogs, cats and other pets
   
90.02   Keeping of livestock
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   Dogs, cats and other pets running at large. It shall be unlawful for
any person who owns or keeps any dog, cat or other pet to permit such dog, cat
or other pet to run at large in the borough in violation of the provisions of
the Dog Law of 1965 (3 P.S. §§ 460-101 et seq.). Any dog, cat or other pet
running at large in violation of said law shall be subject to seizure,
detention and disposal as provided therein.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace prohibited. It shall be unlawful to own, harbor
or keep in custody any dog, cat or other pet which disturbs the peace by
barking, howling or making other loud noises to the annoyance and discomfort of
any person in the borough. Continuous barking, howling or the making of other
loud noises by any dog, cat or other pet for more than any one hour or
continuous barking for periods of less than one hour but more than one-half
hour, which periods occur on two or more consecutive days, shall be deemed to
be a disturbance of the peace and a cause of annoyance and discomfort to
persons in the borough.
   (C)   Warnings.
      (1)   Any person may request the Police Department to warn any person who
shall own, harbor or keep in custody any dog, cat or other pet which disturbs
the peace by barking, howling or making other loud noise to the annoyance and
discomfort of persons in the borough. 
      (2)   A warning by the police shall consist of a delivery of a copy of
this chapter to the residence in the borough of any such owner, keeper or
custodian. In the absence of any such warning made by said police, the
complaining person may request the Borough Manager/Secretary to provide such
warning.
      (3)   Any such request shall be in writing and shall identify and specify
the residence of the owner, keeper or custodian of the dog or other animal and
shall identify and specify the residence of the person making the request. Upon
receipt of such request, the Borough Manager/Secretary shall mail a copy of
this chapter to the person identified as the owner, keeper or custodian of the
dog or other animal.
      (4)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed to have occurred upon a
second or subsequent violation of above after the date of delivery of the
warning.
   (D)   Attacks on human beings.  It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to permit said dog to injure any human being by biting, jumping on,
knocking down or attacking said human being, except police officer’s dogs used
by the Police Department for the purpose of keeping peace and maintaining law
and order. 
   (E)   Nuisances.  No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any
dog shall cause, suffer or allow such dog to soil, defile, defecate on or
commit any nuisance on any common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath,
play area, park or any place where people congregate or walk or on any public
property whatsoever or on any private property without the permission of the
owner of said property. 
   (F)   Number of dogs limited.  It shall be unlawful to keep four or more
dogs six months of age or older on any premises, regardless of the number of
owners; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any premises
for which a kennel license has been obtained pursuant to the Dog Law of 1965 (3
P.S. §§ 460-208 et seq.)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or any agents
thereof, to do, authorize, aid or abet any of the following described actions
or matters:
   (A)   To keep hogs, cattle, sheep, goats, poultry including chickens, hens
and roosters and fowl including pigeons, swans, ducks, geese and the like
within the borough;
   (B)   To permit any fowl or poultry including chickens, hens and roosters to
roam at large within the borough at any time; and
   (C)   To keep or suffer to remain on the premises owned or occupied or used
by any person, firm, or corporation any decaying or offensive or unwholesome
matter of any kind, or to permit the same on any vacant lot or in any street or
highway adjoining.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-7-1952; Ord. 3-1995, passed 12-11-1995) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §
90.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a summary
offense, punishable by a fine not to exceed $300 and, in default of payment of
such fine, by a term of imprisonment in the county jail of not more than 90
days. The continuation of such violation for each successive day shall
constitute a separate offense, and the person or persons allowing or permitting
the continuation of a violation may be punished as provided above for each
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, corporation, partnership or entity of any type violating
and of the provisions of §
90.02 shall be subject for each violation to a penalty of not less than $200
nor more than $600 to be imposed and collected in a manner provided by the
Borough Code in the case of violations of borough ordinances.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-7-1952; Ord. 3-1995, passed 12-11-1995)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Nuisances generally
   
91.002   Tree trimming
   
91.003   Throwing or depositing items within the borough
Graffiti
   
91.015   Definitions
   
91.016   Defacement by graffiti prohibited
   
91.017   Signage required
   
91.018   Graffiti removal required
Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation
   
91.030   Restriction
   
91.031   Owner responsibility
   
91.032   Notice
Vector Control
   
91.045   Definitions
   
91.046   Prohibited acts
   
91.047   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
91.048   Vector-proofing
   
91.049   Plans and specifications for private vector control programs
   
91.050   Inspection; compliance; abatement
Littering and the Storage of Personal Property
   
91.065   Definitions
   
91.066   Duty of maintenance of private property
   
91.067   Exterior storage of non-operating vehicles prohibited
   
91.068   Nuisance
   
91.069   Abatement of nuisance by owners
   
91.070   Accumulation of refuse
   
91.071   Maintenance of business premises free from refuse
   
91.072   Disposal of refuse on business premises
   
91.073   Depositing of litter prohibited
   
91.074   Vehicles to be covered
   
91.075   Abatement by borough
   
91.076   Availability of other remedies
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on any property owned or occupied by him, her or it within the
borough any condition:
      (1)   Productive of a nuisance detrimental to the public health which
nuisance shall only be declared by the State Health Officer or by Council or by
Council’s duly authorized Health Officer after full investigation by the
investigating body or person which investigation determines that the conditions
existing are detrimental to the public health and the reasons shall be so
stated;
      (2)   Productive of a nuisance dangerous as a fire hazard so declared
after full investigation by the Borough Fire Chief or by Council after full
investigation in which the investigating body or person determines that
investigating the conditions existing amount to a dangerous fire hazard and so
declare the reasons for such conclusions; or
      (3)   Productive of a nuisance dangerous to the life and limb after full
investigation by the Council or by the Building Inspector in which the
investigating body or person determines that the existing conditions are
dangerous to the life and limb and so states the reasons for such conclusions.
   (B)   Any such condition existing in the borough and thus declared is hereby
decreed to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
(Ord. 2-1978, passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   All trees in the streets and alleys in the borough shall be trimmed up
at least eight feet from the pavement inside the curb line, and 13 feet from
the ground outside the curb line; said measurements to be taken two feet inside
the curb line, and two feet outside the building line on the pavement and six
feet outside the curb line on the street; all branches and foliage at a less
distance from the ground shall be removed.
   (B)   All trees must be planted one foot outside the curb line.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner of said borough to
give notice to all owners or occupiers in front of or adjoining whose property
any trees or foliage may stand which are not in conformity with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (B) above to have the same properly trimmed,
or removed, and if the party notified shall neglect or refuse so to do for the
space of ten days thereafter, then said borough shall cause said trees or tree
to be trimmed or removed.
(Ord. 142, passed 11-13-1897) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 THROWING OR DEPOSITING ITEMS WITHIN THE BOROUGH.
   Any person or persons who shall throw or deposit, or leave in any of the
streets, lanes, alleys or watercourses within said borough any dead carcass or
parts thereof, offal or filth, or any animal, vegetables or other matter
whatsoever that may be offensive to the sight, or smell, or create a nuisance,
such as pigsties, outhouses or other buildings that are now or may hereafter be
erected or placed in such a position as not to become offensive to the
neighbors of adjoining property, and upon notice being served upon the owner or
occupier and he or she refusing to remove such a nuisance, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-7-1878) Penalty, see §
91.999
GRAFFITI
§ 91.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEFACEMENT. The unlawful application of any graffiti as defined below to any
natural or human- made surface without the permission of the owner or occupant
or on any municipal/government property.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. Any device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark
on any natural or human-made surface.
(Ord. 13-2008, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 91.016 DEFACEMENT BY GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to deface any public or private
property by the application of graffiti.
(Ord. 13-2008, passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 SIGNAGE REQUIRED.
   Any retail commercial establishment selling graffiti implements, which
includes, but is not limited to, etching devices, permanent markers and aerosol
paint cans shall place a sign in clear public view stating:
“Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces any public or private
property is guilty of a crime punishable by a fine of up to $500 and/or
imprisonment under Ord. 13-2008 in addition to fines and penalties which may be
imposed by state law.”
(Ord. 13-2008, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 91.018 GRAFFITI REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   It will be unlawful for any person(s) who owns any property or any
person(s) who has primary responsibility for any property to allow graffiti
defacement to remain on said property for a period exceeding ten days after
official notice has been given by the borough.
   (B)   In the alternative, the owner of property may contact the Borough
Manager to arrange for graffiti removal through the county graffiti abatement
program, in which the borough is a participant, in which case the owner must
report the graffiti to the borough within five days of its occurrence or of
official notice by the borough, whichever is earlier in time.
   (C)   In the event that the owner of property timely contacts the borough
and advises the borough of the presence of graffiti, the owner or person with
primary responsibility shall not be prosecuted under this section.
(Ord. 13-2008, passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
91.999
GRASS, WEEDS AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 91.030 RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, owning or occupying any property
within the borough shall permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation
whatsoever, not edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to
grow or remain upon such premises so as to exceed a height of six inches, or to
throw off any unpleasant or noxious odor or to conceal any filthy deposit or to
create or produce pollen.
   (B)   Any grass, weeds or other vegetation growing upon any premises in the
borough in violation of any of the provisions of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness
and comfort of the inhabitants of the borough.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-14-1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.031 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of any premises, as to vacant premises or premises occupied by the
owner, and the occupant thereof in cases of premises occupied by other than the
owner thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation
growing or remaining upon such premises in violation of the provisions of §
91.030.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-14-1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.032 NOTICE.
   (A)   The Borough Council, or any officer or employee of the borough
designated thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by
personal service or by United States mail, to the owner or occupant, as the
case may be, of any premises whereon grass, weeds or other vegetation is
growing or remaining in violation of the provisions of §
91.030, directing and requiring such occupant to remove, trim or cut such
grass, weeds or vegetation, so as to conform to the requirements of this
subchapter, within five days after issuance of such notice.
   (B)   In case any person, firm or corporation shall neglect, fail or refuse
to comply with such notice, within the period of time stated therein, the
borough authorities may, but shall not be required to, remove, trim or cut such
grass, weeds or vegetation, and the cost thereof, together with any additional
penalty authorized by law, may be collected by the borough from such person,
firm or corporation, in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-14-1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
VECTOR CONTROL
§ 91.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure which is not occupied by owners, tenants,
licensees or others for 30 or more days.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure which is not used or not intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants and which is located on or
partially on any premises.
   BOROUGH OF TOPTON. The Borough Council of the Borough of Topton, Berks
County, Pennsylvania.
   BREEDING AREA. Any condition which provides the necessary environment for
the birth or hatching of vectors.
   COLLECTION OF WATER. Water contained in ditches, pools, ponds, streams,
excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains,
cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs, urns, cans, boxes, bottles,
tubs, backets, roof gutters, tanks of flush closets, reservoirs, vessels,
receptacles of any kind or other containers or devices which may hold water.
   DILAPIDATED. Fallen into partial ruin or decay.
   DISPOSAL. Includes the storage, collection, disposal or handling of refuse.
   DWELLING. A building or structure used for residential purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling which room or rooms have
fixed cooking facilities arranged for occupancy by one person, two or more
persons living together or one family.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of vectors by eliminating their
harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve
as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, fogging, larviciding,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal vector control elimination
methods approved by the local or state authority having such administrative
authority.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
   HARBORAGE. Any place where vectors can live, nest or seek shelter.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or actually having possession of, a dwelling unit or a rooming unit
except, that in dwelling units a guest will not be considered an OCCUPANT.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any premises, dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or an executor, administrator, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this subchapter
and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent
as if he or she were the owner.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except body wastes, and shall include garbage,
ashes and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Includes glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood or nonputrescible
solid wastes.
   STRUCTURE. Any building of any type including commercial, industrial,
restaurant, bar and warehouse.
   VECTOR. A rodent, arthropod or insect capable of transmitting a disease or
infection. VECTORS shall include, but not be limited to rats, mosquitoes,
cockroaches, flies, ticks and the like.
   VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER. Such person or agency or both, so designated by the
borough.
   VECTOR-PROOFING. A form of construction to prevent the ingress or egress of
vectors to or from a given space or building or gaining access to food, water
or harborage. This term shall include, but not be limited to rat-proofing, fly-
proofing, mosquito-proofing and the like.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 91.046 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any refuse, offal, pomace, dead animals,
decaying matter or organic substance of any kind in or upon any private lot,
building, structure, accessory structure, structure premises or in or upon any
street, avenue, alley, parkway, ravine, ditch, gutter or into any of the runs,
creeks or bodies of water within or bounding the borough so that the same shall
or may afford food, harborage or breeding areas for rats, flies or other
vectors.
   (B)   No person shall deposit or permit to accumulate in or upon any
premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lot or alley, any lumber, boxes,
barrels, bottles, cans, glass, scrap iron, wire, metal articles, pipe, broken
stone or cement, broken crockery, broken plaster or rubbish of any kind, unless
the same is kept in approved covered receptacles or place on open racks that
are elevated not less than 18 inches above the ground, and evenly piled or
stacked or disposed of as may be approved by the Department of Environmental
Protection or the borough.
   (C)   No person shall have more than one unregistered and/or unlicensed
vehicle on a property nor shall they have accumulations of trash, rubbish and
junk on a property other than a permitted junk yard.
   (D)   No person shall store refuse in containers other than those which are
made of durable, water- tight, rust-resistant material having a close fitting
lid which must be kept on the container when in use or in plastic bags which
are durable and water-tight, and are secured or tied. These containers must be
kept clean by thorough rinsing and draining as often as necessary so as not to
provide food or breeding areas for flies.
   (E)   No person shall construct, maintain or use a sewage system, privy,
urinal, cesspool or other receptacle for human excrement so that vectors may
have access to the excrementitious matter contained therein.
   (F)   No person shall have, keep, maintain, cause or permit any collection
of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed,
unless such collection of water is treated or maintained effectually so as to
prevent such breeding.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.047 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, used
for commercial or industrial purposes or abandoned or not in use shall maintain
in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling
and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a structure shall maintain in a clean and sanitary
condition that part or those parts of the structure, dwelling unit and premises
thereof that he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant or occupier of a structure and/or dwelling containing
single dwelling unit or otherwise shall be responsible for the extermination of
insects or rodents on the premises. Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested except
that where infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain the
dwelling in a rodent-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Every owner of a non-dwelling type structure shall be responsible for
the extermination of insects or rodents on the premises.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.048 VECTOR-PROOFING.
   (A)   Any dwelling, building, structure, accessory structure, premises or
any other place may be required to be vector-proofed when found by the vector
control office to be providing harborage or breeding areas for rats, flies,
mosquitoes or any other vectors.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, contractor, public utility company, plumber or any
other person shall remove or fail to restore in like condition, the vector-
proofing from any building, structure or accessory structure for any purpose.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 91.049 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRIVATE VECTOR CONTROL PROGRAMS.
   A program plan and specifications for private vector control programs may be
required to be submitted to the borough as deemed necessary by the vector
control office. The program plan shall be submitted by the owner or agent of
the property on or in which the vector control program is or will be conducted.
The program plan shall be submitted by the owner or agent of the property on or
in which the vector control program is or will be conducted. The program plan
shall state the type of vectors to be controlled, the name of the company
contracted to carry out the program, and any and all work to be conducted in an
effort to control the vectors. If, after review of the program plan by the
Vector Control Officer, it is found to be inadequate or incomplete, additional
information may be required as well as additional control methods.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 91.050 INSPECTION; COMPLIANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The vector control officer is empowered to make inspections of the
interior and exterior of all dwellings, buildings, structures and accessory
structures, premises, collections of water or any other places to determine
full compliance with this subchapter and to determine evidence of vector
infestation and the need for vector-proofing or additions or repairs to
existing vector-proofing.
   (B)   Whenever it is determined that any dwelling, building, structure,
accessory structure, premises, collection of water or any other place is in
violation of this subchapter, a written notice shall be issued setting forth
the alleged violations and advising the owner, occupant, operator or agent that
such violations must be corrected. The notice may be personally served upon the
owner, occupant, operator or agent or served upon the same by certified mail or
posted on the premises. The time for the correction of the violations must be
given as well as the necessary methods to be employed in the correction, which
time shall not exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Whenever the violations fail to be corrected within the time set forth
in the written notice, the Vector Control Officer may proceed to abate the
violations in the manner provided by law by hiring a pest control company and
billing the owner for such work, and liening the premises in absence of payment
or proceeding.
(Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-14-1983) Penalty, see §
91.999
LITTERING AND THE STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 91.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All waste, animal or vegetable, such as, but not limited to, waste
material and refuse from kitchens, residences, grocery stores, butcher shops,
restaurants, cafés, hotels, rooming houses and boardinghouses, and all other
deleterious substances.
   JUNK. Any discarded material or article and shall include, but is not
limited to, scrap metal, scrapped, abandoned or junked motor vehicles,
machinery, equipment, paper, glass containers and structures. It shall not
include, however, refuse or garbage kept in a proper container for the purpose
of prompt disposal.
   JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes, but shall not be limited to, one or
more of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle for which a certificate of junk has been issued by the
State Secretary of Revenue or the official designated by any other state to
issue such certificate; or
      (2)   A vehicle in or on which it is found that any of the following
exists:
         (a)   It is inoperative;
         (b)   Its engine, engine parts, drive train parts or drive train has
been removed for more than 30 days;
         (c)   Its tires have been deflated or removed or its wheels have been
removed for more than 30 days; or
         (d)   It bears no official inspection sticker or any such sticker is
not current by more than 60 days.
   LICENSE. The permit granted to a person who accumulates, stores or disposes
of junk as herein before defined.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, means any condition or use of
premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental to the property of
others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in the value of
other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located, or shall
cause or result in annoyance or disturbance to persons beyond the boundaries of
such property; interference to the health and/or safety of the persons beyond
the boundaries of such property; and/or disturbance to or interference with the
peaceful use of the property of others in the borough, in any case taking into
consideration the location of the use or condition, and the nature and
condition of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing
on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the following: lumber, junk,
trash or debris; abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
   REFUSE. Waste, rubbish, garbage, trash or any material of any kind that has
been discarded, rejected, cast aside or thrown away as worthless, except body
wastes.
   TRASH. Rubbish such as feathers, coffee grounds, ashes, tin cans, paper,
boxes, glass, wood, shrubs, yard clippings, leaves, tree trimmings and similar
matter.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 91.066 DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.067 EXTERIOR STORAGE OF NON-OPERATING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or otherwise shall allow any partially dismantled, wrecked,
junked, abandoned, discarded or otherwise non-operating motor vehicle to remain
on such property longer than ten days; and no person shall leave any such
vehicle on any property within the borough for a longer time than ten days;
except that this section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or so located upon the premises as not to be readily visible
from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.068 NUISANCE.
   Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles
not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery,
implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind which is no
longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, which
hereinafter are collectively described as SAID PERSONALTY, for a period of ten
days or more (except in licensed junk yards) within the corporate limits of the
borough is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.069 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNERS.
   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within the
corporate limits of the borough upon which storage as set forth in §§
91.067 and
91.068 is made, and also the owner, owners and/or lessees of said personalty
involved in such storage (all of whom are hereinafter referred to collectively
as “owners”) shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt
removal of said personalty into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be
used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the borough
or otherwise to remove it to a location without said corporate limits.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.070 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE.
   The accumulation of waste, refuse, trash or other deleterious substances on
the premises of private residences, commercial institutions and in the streets
and alleys greatly increases the danger of fire and spread of infections,
contagious and epidemic diseases and shall constitute a public menace and
nuisance.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 MAINTENANCE OF BUSINESS PREMISES FREE FROM REFUSE.
   The owner, manager or occupant of any store or other place of business shall
keep his or her premises clean of refuse thrown or left on such premises by its
employees, customers or passersby and prevent refuse drifting or blowing onto
adjoining premises or public rights-of-way. Receptacles of sufficient size and
number with lids or covers for deposit of refuse shall be placed on the
premises.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE ON BUSINESS PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while upon the premises of a business,
to dispose of refuse upon such premises except in receptacles provided for such
purposes.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, in person or
by his or her agent, employee or servant, to cast, throw, sweep, sift or
deposit in any manner in or upon any public way or other public place in the
borough or any river, canal, public water, drain, sewer or receiving basin
within the jurisdiction of the borough, any kind of dirt, rubbish, waste
article, thing or substance whatsoever, whether liquid or solid.
   (B)   Nor shall any person, firm or corporation, cast, throw, sweep, sift or
deposit any of the aforementioned items anywhere within the jurisdiction of the
borough in such manner that it may be carried or deposited in whole or in part,
by the action of the sun, wind, rain or snow, into any of the aforementioned
places; provided, that this section shall not apply to the deposit of material
under a permit authorized by any ordinance of the borough, or to goods, wares
or merchandise deposited upon any public way or other public place temporarily,
in the necessary course of trade, and removed therefrom within two hours after
being so deposited; or to articles or things deposited in or conducted into the
borough sewer system through lawful drains in accordance with the ordinances of
the borough relating thereto.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 VEHICLES TO BE COVERED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, in person or by
his, her or its agent, employee or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any kind
of dirt, rubbish, waste articles or things or substance, whether liquid or
solid, unless such vehicle is covered to prevent any part of its load from
spilling or dropping at all times while such vehicle is in motion on any street
or alley in the municipality; provided, however, that the requirements herein
for covering such vehicles shall not apply to vehicles carrying brush cuttings,
tree trimmings, branches, logs and similar waste material, if such matter is
securely lashed to such vehicle to prevent spilling or dropping as aforesaid.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 ABATEMENT BY BOROUGH.
   Whenever said owners fail to abate any nuisance as defined herein, then the
borough shall abate said nuisance and assess the costs thereof against the
owners, occupiers or persons maintaining said nuisance and assess the costs
against said individuals or pursue any other remedy for the abatement of
nuisances or the collection incurred in connection therewith as provided by
law.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 91.076 AVAILABILITY OF OTHER REMEDIES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to be the sole means for abatement of
nuisances within the borough and nothing shall preclude any person from
proceeding individually or with other injured persons, to effect the abatement
of a private nuisance.
(Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner or occupier of said property to remove or
correct the nuisance in §
91.001 within 30 days after notice from Borough Council, the Mayor, with the
cooperation of Council, shall take whatever steps are deemed necessary to abate
said nuisance and collect the cost thereof, together with a penalty of 10% of
such cost, in the manner provided by law for the collection of municipal
claims, or by action of assumpsit, or may seek relief by bill in equity.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.003 and upon conviction thereof before any justice of the peace of said
borough shall forfeit and pay a fine of not more than $10 for the use of the
borough with costs of prosecution, to be recovered as debts of such kind are
recoverable, and in default of payment to be confined in some proper place to
be provided by said borough for a period not exceeding 48 hours.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
91.015 through
91.018 shall, upon conviction thereof by summary proceedings, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than $500 and costs, and in default of said fine and
costs, to undergo imprisonment in the county prison for a period of not in
excess of 30 days.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate or fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.030 through
91.032 shall upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, provided each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense and notice to the offenders shall not be
necessary in order to constitute an offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.045 through
91.050 shall be fined not exceeding $300 and the costs of prosecution. Each
day’s violation of any provision of §§
91.045 through
91.050 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
91.065 through
91.076 shall, upon conviction thereof before a district justice, be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $300 and costs of prosecution, and in default of
payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment in the county prison for not
more than 30 days; provided, each day’s continuance of the maintenance of any
nuisance shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 4, passed 5-7-1878; Ord. 7-1979, passed 8-6-1979; Ord. 2-1983, passed 2-
14-1983; Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-14-1988; Ord. 13-2008, passed 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Designation of Topton Borough Park
   
92.03   Hours of operation
   
92.04   After-hours events with permission only
   
92.05   Designation of parking areas and regulation of operation of vehicles
   
92.06   Damage to park property
   
92.07   Removal of or moving park property
   
92.08   Conduct in park
   
92.09   Waste disposal
   
92.10   Fires
   
92.11   Motor vehicle repairs
   
92.12   Operation of vehicles and other modes of transportation
   
92.13   Motor vehicle operation
   
92.14   Bicycles
   
92.15   Riding horses and other animals
   
92.16   Dogs and other domestic animals
   
92.17   Topton Borough Dog Park
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Topton Park Code”
and shall set forth the regulations for the use of the park land of the borough
as set forth herein.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 92.02 DESIGNATION OF TOPTON BOROUGH PARK.
   The tracts of land within the borough which have been designated by the
Borough Council and marked by signage, together with all land areas which may
be added from time to time by Borough Council, shall be designated as the
“Topton Borough Park” (“Park”) and its use subject to the Topton Park Code.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 92.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The park shall be opened daily to the public between the hours of dawn
and dusk, with the following hours for specific park facilities: The basketball
court shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Provided, however, that if in the opinion of the Mayor the closing of
the park or any of the above facilities at a time earlier than stated herein is
necessary to protect thee safety, health, morals or general welfare of the
citizens and residents of the borough or of the persons then in the park, the
Mayor is hereby empowered to order the closing of the park or facilities at an
earlier time. In the event the Mayor shall exercise the authority herein
granted to the Mayor, the Mayor shall cause the police having jurisdiction in
the borough to immediately go upon the premises of the park and notify all
persons then in the park as to the time that the park and/or park facility or
facilities shall be closed. Except as hereinabove provided in this section or
any other section of this chapter, at dusk all activities in the park shall
cease and all persons in the park shall leave as soon as possible thereafter;
provided, however, that in the event the park is closed prior to dusk in
accordance with the authorization herein granted to the Mayor of the borough,
all activities in the park shall cease as soon as directed by the police having
jurisdiction in the borough and all persons in the park shall leave as soon as
possible thereafter. No persons other than authorized employees or officials of
the borough shall be in the park at any time between dusk or any other time the
park is closed and dawn on the following morning.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISCRETION OF MAYOR.
   No group shall hold or continue any function within the park after dusk and
before dawn, except with the written permission of the Mayor. The Mayor is
hereby empowered to grant written permission to any person or group desiring to
hold such a function within the park area subsequent to dusk whenever, in the
opinion of the Mayor, the holding or continuing of such function will not
adversely affect the safety, health, morals or general welfare of the persons
attending said function or the safety, health, morals or general welfare of the
citizens or residents of the borough.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DESIGNATION OF PARKING AREAS AND REGULATION OF OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to designate parking areas
within the park. The police having jurisdiction within the borough are hereby
authorized and empowered to designate temporary parking areas within the park,
to temporarily close any road or roads within the park, and to otherwise
regulate and direct the operation of vehicles and other modes of transportation
within said park. Whenever any road within said park has been temporarily
closed as hereinabove provided, such closed road shall not be considered a road
within the meaning of this chapter and no person shall operate any vehicle or
other mode of transportation upon the same while said road is temporarily
closed. No person shall park any vehicle within the park except in those places
which have been designated as either permanent or temporary parking areas as
hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, deface, remove, cut or damage any of the trees,
plants, shrubs, turf, buildings, structures, fixtures or any other park real
estate, personal property, or fixtures.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REMOVAL OF OR MOVING PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall remove or move without written permission of the Mayor any
bench, seat or table from the park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CONDUCT IN PARK.
   No person shall conduct himself or herself within the park so as to annoy
any other person lawfully using the park or interfere with lawful use of the
park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   No person shall dispose of any waste or garbage in the park except in
receptacles designated for such purposes. All persons using the park shall
dispose of all waste and garbage left by them in such designated receptacles.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 FIRES.
   No person shall build, set or maintain any fire within the park except fires
for cooking purposes within properly constructed fire places or metal braziers
or charcoal grills. All fires built and maintained as hereinbefore provided
shall, nevertheless, be constantly attended by an individual at least 16 years
of age. Any person building or maintaining such a fire shall, before leaving
the area thereof, dispose of said fire by first thoroughly quenching the same
with water and then placing the quenched coals or ashes remaining therefrom in
a container within the park designated for such purpose. No persons shall
throw, place or scatter fire coals or ashes upon the ground or upon or against
any tree, shrub or plant or upon or against any building or other improvement
within the park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIRS.
   No persons shall make any repairs to any motor vehicle within the park
unless such repairs be of an emergency nature.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND OTHER MODES OF TRANSPORTATION.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, bicycle or any other mode of
transportation within the park in such a manner as to disregard the rights or
safety of others or in such a manner so as to endanger any person or property.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle within the park shall drive such
vehicle only upon the roads located therein or upon a designated parking area,
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to persons actually
engaged in duly authorized construction, maintenance or repair work within the
park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 BICYCLES.
   No person shall ride or park a bicycle within 20 feet of or within any
playground area or upon any athletic field located within the park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 RIDING HORSES AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   No person shall ride a horse, pony, donkey, mule, or the like within the
park except in connection with a public game or exhibition, and in such case
only when permission has first been obtained from the Mayor. The Mayor is
hereby empowered to grant special permission whenever such game or exhibition
will not adversely affect the safety, health or general welfare of persons
using the park and will not materially damage the park or the buildings or
improvements thereof.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 DOGS AND OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall permit any dog or other domestic animal under his or her
control to urinate or defecate within any playground or athletic field area of
the park as hereinabove defined. Any person shall have any dog or other
domestic animal under control and shall not allow any dog or domestic animal to
run at large unless within such a designated area of said park.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 TOPTON BOROUGH DOG PARK.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The following rules and regulations shall apply
to anyone using the Topton Borough Dog Park:
      (1)   Use of this dog park is at individual’s own risk. Owners are
legally responsible for their dogs and any injury or damages caused by them.
      (2)   Hours of operation are dawn to dusk. Entry is otherwise considered
trespassing outside of dawn to dusk.
      (3)   A dog must be licensed, healthy, parasite-free, over the age of 16
weeks, and not in heat. Proof of rabies vaccine and license must be displayed
on collar.
      (4)   Children under age five are prohibited. Older children must be
closely supervised. No one under 18 allowed without a responsible adult.
      (5)   No more than two dogs per responsible adult.
      (6)   A dog (or person) that has an aggressive episode must leave the
park immediately. In case of injuries, call 911. Repeat offenders may be banned
permanently from the park.
      (7)   Choke chains and pronged or spiked collars must be removed in the
transition gate area.
      (8)   Dogs must be on-leash when entering and exiting the dog area and
off-leash when in larger fenced area.
      (9)   Owners must carry a leash at all times and be alert to their dog’s
actions and demeanor.
      (10)   Pick up after your dog and keep the park clean and free from dog
waste. Waste receptacles are located inside the fenced-in area and outside the
main gate.
      (11)   Dog food, human food, and rawhide are prohibited. Training treats
are acceptable.
      (12)   Tug toys and squeaky toys are prohibited. Balls and disc toys are
permitted.
      (13)   Dogs may not be allowed to dig or otherwise damage park property.
Firmly fill any holes made.
      (14)   No other animals besides dogs are allowed in the park.
      (15)   Smoking, vaping, and drinking alcohol in the park are prohibited.
      (16)   All items must be removed from the park upon departure, and gate
must be securely closed.
      (17)   In case of emergency, call 911.
      (18)   Any questions regarding the use of this park, are to be referred
to the borough office at 610-682-2541.
   (B)   The rules and regulations adopted herein may be amended from time to
time by resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 04-2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall act in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof by a magisterial district judge in an action brought in the same manner
as for summary offenses as set forth in the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal
Procedure, be sentenced to pay a fine which shall not be less than $35 nor more
than $300, and the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment thereof,
shall be imprisoned for not more than five days.
(Ord. 04-2021, passed 5-10-2021)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Open fires and outdoor fires
   
93.03   Outdoor fireplaces and charcoal grills
   
93.04   Outdoor patio stove, chimineas, factory-built metal novelty stoves
   
93.05   Indoor fireplaces, wood burning, coal stoves or solid fuel heaters
   
93.06   Incinerators
   
93.07   Handling of ashes and combustible rubbish
   
93.08   Permits
Fireworks
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Use of consumer fireworks
   
93.27   Permit required for use of display fireworks
   
93.28   Display and discharge
   
93.29   Disposal of unfired fireworks and residuals
   
93.30   Exceptions to permit requirements
 
   
93.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (AHJ). The Fire Code Official, police officer
or Code Enforcement Officer.
   LEAF WASTE. Leaves, garden residue, shrubbery and tree trimmings and similar
materials, but not including grass clippings.
   NON-ORGANIC MATERIAL. Material derived or formed from inanimate objects,
other than vegetable, such as tin cans, glass crockery, metals, plastic and
similar materials.
   OPEN BURNING. Burning any material in the open atmosphere, including burning
in 55-gallon drums, outdoor fireplaces or other containers.
   ORGANIC MATERIAL. Material derived from living organisms such as wood, paper
and yard scraps.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, association or corporation.
   RECYCLABLE. Any material that is required to be recycled in the borough
under Pennsylvania Act 101, being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.1501 et seq.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.02 OPEN FIRES AND OUTDOOR FIRES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open burn any material,
including the following, at any time within the borough: household trash,
books, magazines, newspapers, cardboard and/or any items that are required to
be recycled in the borough under Pennsylvania Act 101, being 53 P.S. §§
4000.1501 et seq., including leaf waste and scrap lumber or any vegetation,
plywood, drywall plastic products, insulation material, upholstered furniture,
garbage, dead animals, human and animal excrement, human and animal hair,
rubber products including tires, hydrocarbon products or flammable liquids,
asphalt or tar shingles or roofing materials, bedding, foam rubber, nylon,
rayon, cotton, wool, polyester or other synthetic material, insulation from
copper or other wiring, solid waste and/or construction waste as defined by the
Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, being 35 P.S. § 6018.101 and 25 Pa.
Code 271.1.
      (2)   Exceptions are for where fire or burning operations result from:
         (a)   Any fire set for the purpose of training and instructing
authorized personnel in firefighting, and training of persons in the use of
portable fire extinguishers, (permit required);
         (b)   Any campfire or bonfire solely for organized recreational or
ceremonial purposes, (permit required);
         (c)   Any fire set for the prevention and/or control of disease of
pests, rats, snakes, bees and the like (permit required); and
         (d)   The burning of only leaf waste, exclusively for agricultural
management and conservation practices and protection, and provided burning is
located 100 feet or more from any building or structure. Brush must originate
from the same property (first full weekend of the month, permit required).
            1.   Burning is permitted from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturday
and Sunday, weather permitting.
            2.   No burning or smoldering shall occur outside of the above
stated hours or when weather conditions are inappropriate for burning.
   (B)   The AHJ may suspend the above regulations at any time when the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   When smoke and/or ash emission are or may be objectionable,
offensive or deleterious to human or animal health or permeate or crosses
neighboring properties, and/or falls on buildings, vehicles or vegetation; and
      (2)   When weather conditions, including, but not limited to, extreme dry
conditions or drought warrant a ban on all burning, or where there is a state-
wide, regional or county-wide drought emergency declared.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.03 OUTDOOR FIREPLACES AND CHARCOAL GRILLS.
   (A)   Outdoor fireplaces and charcoal grills shall be permitted upon private
property within the borough solely for the purpose of cooking foods.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply.
      (1)   No person shall use such fireplaces or grills for burning of
materials as outlined in §
93.02(A).
      (2)   Outdoor grills shall not be used for such purposes other than
cooking food.
      (3)   Outdoor grills shall not be used indoors or in any enclosed areas
that are not properly ventilated, i.e. garages and the like.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 OUTDOOR PATIO STOVE, CHIMINEAS, FACTORY-BUILT METAL NOVELTY STOVES.
   Outdoor patio stoves, chimineas™ or factory built metal novelty stoves shall
be permitted outside residential private property within all zones of the
borough, provided that the following regulations apply.
   (A)   No persons shall use such patio stoves, chimineas™ or factory built
novelty stoves, for the burning of any material outlined in §
93.02(A).
   (B)   If smoke, ash or odor omitting from such patio stoves, chimineas™ or
factory built novelty stoves become(s) objectionable or offensive to
neighboring properties, the AHJ may suspend the operation of same.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.05 INDOOR FIREPLACES, WOOD BURNING, COAL STOVES OR SOLID FUEL HEATERS.
   (A)   Fireplaces, wood burning and coal stoves shall be permitted inside
residential private property within all zones of the borough solely for the
purpose of heating the dwelling unit.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Only seasoned fire wood, coal or solid fuels recommended by the
manufacturer may be burned in such fireplaces, wood burning, coal stoves or
solid fuel heaters.
      (2)   No person may use such fireplaces, wood burning, coal stoves or
solid fuel heaters for the burning of any material as outlined in §
93.02(A).
      (3)   Such fireplaces, wood burning, coal stoves or solid fuel heaters
shall not be used for such purpose when, in the judgment of AHJ, a fire hazard
is created by such use and operation and/or any danger is posed to the
occupants therein or the neighboring buildings and/or occupants.
      (4)   If the smoke, ashes and/or smell emitting to the outside atmosphere
from the chimney, stove pipe or flue are, objectionable or offensive to the
general public, the operation of such fireplace, wood burning, coal stove or
solid fuel heater shall be suspended by the AHJ.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 INCINERATORS.
   It shall be lawful to burn combustible rubbish and materials within the
borough by means of an enclosed outdoor or indoor incinerator operated by
chemical or thermal means, provided the incinerator is attached to a proper
stack or chimney and complies with the current borough ICC Codes, and provided
the following regulations are adhered to.
   (A)   The incinerator shall be the type approved by an authorized
representative of the State Department of Health and the State Department of
Environmental Protection. Both of the above departments shall give evidence of
approval in written certification of inspection and approval.
   (B)   All owners of property within the borough on or in which there exists
an incinerator shall, advise the Borough Manager of such incinerator and the
location of the same.
   (C)   The AHJ may terminate the use of any incinerator when found to be
faulty or for the reasons stated in §
93.02(A).
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 HANDLING OF ASHES AND COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH.
   Ashes, smoldering coals, wood and embers or other material liable to
spontaneously ignite, shall not be deposited or allowed to remain within ten
feet of any combustible materials, but shall be deposited in non-combustible
containers. Rubbish of any kind shall not be allowed to accumulate.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.08 PERMITS.
   All permits required under any provisions of this subchapter, shall be
issued in accordance with § 105 of the International Fire Code adopted by the
borough with the following provisions.
   (A)   A fire prevention “operational” permit shall be obtained from the
Borough Manager a minimum of 48 hours prior to burning. The applicant shall
provide name, address, phone number, the purpose for the permit and attach a
drawing of the proposed burning site.
   (B)   Permits to burn the first full weekend of the month may be obtained
for a single month or for an entire calendar year. Other operational permits
must be obtained for each special event (i.e., bonfires, campfires and
cookouts).
   (C)   Before the permit is issued, an inspection may be made by the AHJ to
assure that the use of the permit complies with the provisions of the
subchapter and the International Fire Code.
   (D)   Any permit issued may be revoked for the protection of life or
property or to prevent or abate the nuisances caused by such burning. (A
NUISANCE would be defined as ash fallout or smoke accumulation in the area of
residential occupancies, or uncontrolled or unsupervised burning.)
   (E)   If a person starts a fire without a permit or if a permit holder fails
to comply with any term or condition of the permit, and as a result of that
failure the Fire Department is required to suppress a fire, the person or
permit holder is liable for the cost of fire suppression and subject to fines
and costs upon conviction in district court.
   (F)   Permit fees will be set from time to time by a duly adopted resolution
of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. Topton Borough, Berks County, Pennsylvania and its Borough Council.
   DISPLAY. Any event, whether or not open to the general public, and whether
or not admission is charged, at which fireworks are discharged, fired, or
activated.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department(s) having jurisdiction in the
borough, in the discretion of the Borough Council, to render decisions on
issues regarding fireworks, or the designee of the same.
   FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Includes CONSUMER FIREWORKS and DISPLAY FIREWORKS which are, under
state law, as follows:
         (a)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Includes any combustible or explosive
composition or any substance or combination of substances, containing a maximum
of 50 milligrams of explosive materials, intended to produce visible and/or
audible effects by combustion and which is suitable for use by the public that
complies with the construction, performance composition and labeling
requirements of the Consumer Products Safety Commission contained in 16 C.F.R.
(relating to commercial practices) or any successor regulation and which
complies with the provision for CONSUMER FIREWORKS as defined in the American
Pyrotechnics Association (APA) Standard 87-1, or any successor standard, the
sale, possession, or use of which shall be permitted throughout this
Commonwealth. CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include devices including “ground and
hand held sparkling devices,” “novelties,” and “toy caps,” as defined in APA
Standard 87-1, titled Standard for Construction and Approval for Transportation
of Fireworks, Novelties, and Theatrical Pyrotechnics, 2001 Edition, or any
subsequent edition.
         (b)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks to be used solely by
professional pyrotechnicians and designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. The term includes,
but is not limited to:
            1.   Salutes that contain more than two grains or 130 milligrams of
explosive materials;
            2.   Aerial shells containing more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic
compositions; and
            3.   Other display pieces that exceed the limits of explosive
materials for classification as CONSUMER FIREWORKS and are classified as
fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States Department of
Transportation at 49 C.F.R. 172.101 (relating to purpose and use of hazardous
materials table).
      (2)   FIREWORKS shall not include:
         (a)   Devices including “ground and hand held sparkling devices,”
“novelties,” and “toy caps” as defined in APA Standard 87-1, as referenced
above; and
         (b)   Explosives which are illegal under federal law, such as devices
as described in 49 C.F.R. 173.54 (relating to forbidden explosives) or those
devices that have not been tested, approved and labeled by the United States
Department of Transportation, including, but not limited to, those devices
commonly referred to as “M-80,” “M-100,” “blockbuster,” “cherry bomb” or
“quarter or half stick” explosive devices.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, limited liability company or
partnership, public or private corporation, incorporated or unincorporated
association, enterprise, or any other legal entity and, including without
limitation with respect to each of the above, any agent, servant, or employee
thereof.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 93.26 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   A person who is at least 18 years of age and meets the requirements of the
Fireworks Act, as amended, and other applicable law, may purchase, possess, and
use consumer fireworks, provided that a person may not intentionally ignite or
discharge:
   (A)   Consumer fireworks on public or private property without the express
permission of the owner on private property or governing authority with
jurisdiction in the case of public property;
   (B)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices within, or throw consumer
fireworks or sparkling devices from, a motor vehicle or building;
   (C)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices into or at a motor vehicle or
building or at another person;
   (D)   Consumer fireworks or sparkling devices while the person is under the
influence of alcohol, a controlled substance or another drug; and/or
   (E)   Consumer fireworks within 250 feet of an occupied structure.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019; Ord. 7-2021, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR USE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Except as provided hereinafter by this subchapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to use or explode any display fireworks in the borough,
unless a permit is granted by the borough.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made in writing on a form prescribed
by the borough at least 30 days in advance of the date set for a display,
setting forth the proposed location, the character thereof, the name and
address of the operator, and the name and address of the owner or owners of the
grounds on which the display is to be held. If an application is submitted and
executed by an operator acting on behalf of the owner, the owner shall execute
the application as well. The application/permit fee shall be $50. The
application form is attached to Ordinance 3-2019.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide to the borough evidence of the operator’s
registration in good standing with the Attorney General of the state, and set
forth the operator’s credentials evidencing competency to perform the public
display.
   (D)   As a condition of the issuance of a permit, the applicant, or the
operator of the display on behalf of the applicant, shall submit a bond, which
shall be in the amount of at least $500,000 and up to $1,000,000 as determined
by the borough, conditioned for payment of all damages which may be caused
either to a person or persons, or to property by reason of the display and
arising from any acts of the applicant or operator, or agents, employees, or
contractors/subcontractors of the same.
   (E)   The borough shall review the application, credentials of the proposed
operator, and proposed location of the display and determine any hazards to
persons or property which could preclude the issuance of the permit or require
the attachment of conditions to the grant of the permit.
   (F)   If an after a permit is granted under this subchapter, the possession
and use of display fireworks shall be limited solely to the purpose described
in the application and permit.
   (G)   The borough may attach reasonable conditions to the issuance of a
permit.
   (H)   No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable without the written
approval of the borough. Any transferee must:
      (1)   Comply with all requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Comply with requirements of all other applicable borough
ordinances;
      (3)   Comply with all applicable state and federal laws; and
      (4)   Post the bond required by this subchapter.
   (I)   The Fire Chief may suspend any permit issued under this subchapter due
to drought, dry conditions, high winds or any other factor reasonably related
to public safety. Fire services must be present at the scene of all displays.
Where any such deployment occurs, the applicant shall defray the cost of such
services in an amount determined by the borough.
   (J)   If by reason of unfavorable weather or other dangerous conditions in
the opinion of the operator and/ or Fire Chief at the time of the scheduled
display for which the permit is issued the display does not take place, the
person to whom the permit is issued may within 72 hours, apply to the borough
requesting a continuance of the public display to a new date. Upon receiving an
application for continuance, the borough may extend the permit under such terms
and conditions as it deems appropriate.
   (K)   A display fireworks permit may not be issued to a person under 21
years of age.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 DISPLAY AND DISCHARGE.
   Every use of consumer fireworks and display fireworks within the borough
shall be performed by a competent individual and shall be of such character and
so located, discharged, fired, or activated in such a manner so as not to be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons. Applicants for use of
display fireworks shall arrange with the Fire Department having jurisdiction to
have them present at the display or use and deployed in such a manner as to
prevent injury to persons or damage to property. No display fireworks shall be
ignited within 300 feet of a facility that meets the requirements of 72 P.S. §§
2407 and 2410 (sales locations and temporary sales locations for fireworks).
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 93.29 DISPOSAL OF UNFIRED FIREWORKS AND RESIDUALS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or operator to dispose
of all unfired fireworks, misfired fireworks, trash and any other residue or
remains within 12 hours of the conclusion of the display. Any materials which
are hazardous shall be immediately disposed of in an proper manner.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 93.30 EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   The permit requirements of this subchapter shall not be applicable to the
following activities involving the use of fireworks or similar devices as
defined herein:
   (A)   When the use is authorized under a permit from an agency of the state
or federal government;
   (B)   When used as authorized by a permit for agricultural purposes in
connection with the raising of crops and the protection of crops from bird and
animal damage;
   (C)   Use by railroads or other transportation agencies for signal purposes
or other illumination;
   (D)   When used in quarrying or for blasting or other industrial use;
   (E)   Use of blank cartridges for show or theatrical production or for
signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports; and
   (F)   Use by military organizations composed of veterans of the United
States Armed Forces.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.08 or neglecting to comply with any order or notice issued pursuant hereto
for violation of any section hereto, shall upon conviction before any district
justice, be subject to the payment of a fine of not less than $300 or more than
$1,000 and the payment of costs of prosecution for each offense, or shall be
subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days. Each day’s
continuance of any violation of §§
93.01 through
93.08 shall constitute a separate offense, punishable by a like fine and
imprisonment in default of payment thereof.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.25 through
93.30 of this chapter shall, in an action before a Magisterial District Judge
prosecuted as a summary criminal offense shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each and
every offense, and, in default of payment, imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 30 days in county prison. Each day or portion thereof for which a
violation of §§
93.25 through
93.30 of this chapter is found to occur shall constitute a new and separate
offense.
(Ord. 8-2008, passed 5-12-2008;Ord. 3-2019, passed 6-10-2019)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Street lighting
   
94.02   Snow and ice removal
   
94.03   Erection and construction of cellar doors and stoops
Grading of Sidewalks
   
94.15   Grading of sidewalk areas and construction and repair of sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, driveway entrances and retaining walls, and permits therefor
Excavations
   
94.30   Title
   
94.31   Definitions
   
94.32   Permit required
   
94.33   Administrative requirements
   
94.34   Emergency work
   
94.35   General conditions
   
94.36   Special conditions; subsurface operations
   
94.37   Special conditions; above-ground facilities
   
94.38   Record examination
   
94.39   Enforcement
   
94.40    Repealer, waivers and severability
   
94.41   Fee schedule
 
   
94.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Standard details
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision and Land Development, see
Chapter 153
   Zoning, see 
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street lights, street lighting and all associated apparatus as well as
distance between street lights, pole design, approved suppliers, electrical
design, circuiting pad dimensions and all other items needed to provide street
lighting shall conform to the attached Standard for Street Lighting being
Spotts, Stevens & McCoy, Inc., Plan No. 7010-172-B.
   (B)   The Borough Manager shall provide every developer with a copy of the
above-referenced standard and any amendments and changes. Any changes to the
standard shall be by resolution with a copy of the plan attached.
(Ord. 2-1989, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 94.02 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or tenant of every property fronting upon or
alongside of any of the streets or other public ways in the borough is hereby
required to remove or cause to be removed from all of the sidewalks in front of
or alongside of such property all snow, ice, hail or sleet thereon fallen or
formed, to a minimum width of 48 inches, within 24 hours after the same shall
have ceased to fall or to form. In the absence of a sidewalk, the owner,
occupant or tenant of the property fronting along any street or public way
shall clear a path on a grass plot or surface adjacent to the street or public
way. No such snow, ice, hail or sleet removed as herein provided shall be
deposited in or on any street, road, alley, sidewalk, or public way used for
public travel. The owner of a property shall be responsible for conforming to
the requirements of this section where such property is occupied by such owner
or is unoccupied; the tenant or occupier thereof, where such property is
occupied by such tenant or occupier only; and the owner thereof where the
property is a multiple-business or multiple-dwelling property, occupied by more
than one tenant or occupier.
   (B)   In any case where the owner, occupant or tenant as aforesaid, shall
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of division (A)
above within the time limit prescribed therein, the borough authorities may
proceed immediately to clear all snow, ice, hail and/or sleet from the sidewalk
of such delinquents, and to collect the expenses there of, with any additional
amount allowed by law, from such owner, occupant or tenant, as the case may be,
which may be in addition to any fine or penalty imposed under §
94.99.
(Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-1-1971; Ord. 1-2023, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Regulations on snow and ice removal, see the Quality of Life Ordinance
§ 94.03 ERECTION AND CONSTRUCTION OF CELLAR DOORS AND STOOPS.
   (A)   All owners of property within the limits of the borough be, and they
are hereby prohibited from erecting or constructing cellar doors or cellar
stoops upon the sidewalks or pavements in front of their property.
   (B)   All the owners of property within the limits of the borough which have
cellar doors or stoops at present projecting into the highway of the borough,
be notified to remove the same within 30 days after notice to so remove same by
the Highway Commissioner of the borough; and upon failure so to remove the same
the Highway Commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered to remove the same,
and the borough is hereby empowered to collect the cost thereof from the
property owner, as the case may be, and if the costs thereof be not paid, suit
shall be brought for the recovery of the same, with costs.
(Ord. 151, passed 8-6-1900) Penalty, see §
94.99
GRADING OF SIDEWALKS
§ 94.15 GRADING OF SIDEWALK AREAS AND CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS,
CURBS, GUTTERS, DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES AND RETAINING WALLS, AND PERMITS THEREFOR.
   (A)   The grading of sidewalk areas, the constructing and repairing of
sidewalks, curbs and driveway entrances along the streets of the borough shall
be done by the owner or owners of the lot or lots abutting thereon in
accordance with the lines and grades established by ordinance as shown on the
topographical survey of the borough and in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
grade any sidewalk area, construct or repair any sidewalk, curb, gutter,
driveway entrance or front or rear retaining wall within the borough except in
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to grade any sidewalk area,
which is defined as the area located between the curb line and the building
line as shown on the topographical survey of the borough, or desiring to
construct or repair any sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway entrance, or front or
rear retaining wall, shall first obtain a permit therefor from the Borough
Secretary, said permit to be issued by said Borough Secretary only after the
following conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   The filing of a written application with said Borough Secretary
upon such form as is approved by the Borough Council by resolution, setting
forth the location, purpose and detailed description of the improvement;
      (2)   The approval of said application by the Borough Engineer;
      (3)   The payment of a permit fee of $2 to the Borough Secretary at the
time of filing application, which fee shall be the total fee regardless of the
number of improvements set forth in the application; and
      (4)   In all cases of new construction of any curb or of resetting any
curb in excess of ten feet in length, and in the case of any other type
improvement when requested by the applicant, the Borough Engineer shall furnish
applicant with necessary lines and/or grades, the cost of which shall be paid
for by applicant by depositing the amount of $20 with the Borough Secretary at
the time of filing the application, and any difference in cost above or below
the amount of deposit shall be paid by or returned to applicant at time of
issuance of permit. If an application is made for a permit for a type of
improvement for which said deposit is not required, but the Borough Engineer
considers it necessary nevertheless to furnish lines and/or grades, he or she
shall furnish such lines and/or grades and the cost thereof shall be paid by
applicant at the time of issuance of permit or renewal thereof. The property
owner shall protect survey points established by the Borough Engineer. If curb
is not installed within 90 days of the date of issuance of a permit, the
property owner shall be responsible for costs to check and reset any survey
points necessary as determined by the Borough Engineer. A permit shall be
effective for a period of 90 days from date of issuance, and may, prior to
expiration of the original or renewal period be renewed by the Borough
Secretary for a period of 90 days upon application and payment of $2 for each
90 days by the person, firm or corporation to whom the original permit was
issued. Any person, firm or corporation who shall have been issued a permit
pursuant to the provisions of § 7 of Ord. 286, shall not be required to pay the
said permit fee, nor make the $20 deposit on account of the Borough Engineer’s
charge for furnishing necessary lines and/or grades, as hereinabove provided.
   (D)   All sidewalk areas shall be grated and all sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
driveway entrances and front or rear retaining walls, shall be constructed,
reconstructed or repaired only on the grades and lines as shown on the
topographical survey of the borough and furnished by the Borough Engineer and
in accordance with a plan prepared by Great Valley Consultants, Borough
Engineers, said plan being Drawing No. 923006-001-D-001-003, and pursuant to
the requirements contained in Appendix A of 28 C.F.R. part 36, Standards For
Accessibility Design, § 4.7 Curb Ramps. The drawing in question is attached
hereto incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein and marked as
Appendix A at the end of this chapter.
      (1)   All sidewalk areas shall conform to curb grades except that the
area shall have a one-fourth inch pitch per foot measured from the outside curb
line to the building line of the respective lot or property.
      (2)   All curbs shall be eight inches wide across the top, shall be nine
inches wide seven inches below top of curb at gutter elevation, and shall
extend for a width of nine inches downward to a point 24 inches from the top of
the finished curb. The depth from the top of the curb to the flow line of the
gutter shall be seven inches.
      (3)   (a)   The outside of all sidewalks shall be set back three feet
from the outside face of the curb and a grass plot area shall separate curb
from sidewalk, except that said grass plot area may be paved as an addition to
the sidewalk if so directed or authorized by resolution of the Council of the
borough. All sidewalks shall be not less than four inches in thickness, and the
surface shall have a one-fourth inch pitch per foot measured from the outside
face of the curb. Sidewalks shall be four feet on sidewalk areas ten feet or
less width as shown on the topographical survey of the borough and shall be
five feet wide on sidewalk areas of more than ten feet in width as shown on the
topographical survey of the borough.
         (b)   The provision of division (D)(3)(a) above shall apply as shall
the provision of each and every section and division hereof, uniformly
throughout the borough, with the following exception and addition: on East
Smith Street, between South Home Avenue and South Haas Street, the outside of
all sidewalks shall be set back ten feet from the outside face of the curb and
a grass plot area shall separate curb from sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be six
feet in width.
      (4)   All driveway entrances shall have a curb radius of two feet on each
side, shall have the outside edge raised one and three-quarters inches above
the flow line of the gutter and shall have a straight slope therefrom to the
prescribed outside sidewalk edge located three feet from the outside face of
the curb, shall have a sidewalk surface of the same grade and width prescribed
for sidewalks, and all driveway entrances including gutter, slope and sidewalk
surface shall be eight inches in thickness. No driveway entrance shall be
constructed with a frontage exceeding 12 feet along the curb line except upon
specific approval by resolution of the Council of the borough.
      (5)   The outside edge of all FRONT RETAINING WALLS, defined as those
located along any street, shall be on or in back of the building line as shown
on the topographical survey of the borough and the outside edge of all rear
retaining walls shall be on or in back of the alley line as shown on the
topographical survey of the borough and shall be constructed in accordance with
good engineering practice of such height, thickness and materials as shall be
approved by the Borough Engineer.
      (6)   All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and driveway entrances shall be
constructed of concrete having a minimum mixture known as 3,000 pounds. The
Borough Engineer shall require materials testing for compression if deemed
advisable and proper, at contractor’s expense.
      (7)   In the construction of sidewalks, no indentation or other
provisions shall be made or provided for in the surface thereof for the passage
of stormwater from roof spoutings, drainpipes, downspouts or from any other
source whatsoever. Henceforth, during the construction of sidewalk, provisions
shall be made for the installation of approved piping underneath the sidewalk
area to the curb so as to permit such stormwater to flow from the applicable
property or structure to the adjacent gutter.
      (8)   On neglect or refusal of the owner or owners of the abutting lot or
lots to grade any sidewalk areas, to construct, pave, repave or repair any
sidewalk, to construct, set, reset or repair any curb or driveway entrance,
within 30 days after notice so to do from the Council of the borough through
its proper officials, said Council shall cause the same to be done and shall
collect from said owner or owners of the lot or lots the cost thereof and 10%
additional, together with all charges and expenses, and if payment is not made,
shall file a municipal lien therefor against such lot or lots or shall bring an
action in assumpsit against said owner or owners for collection thereof.
   (F)   Sidewalk areas not graded, or sidewalks, curbs and driveway entrances
not laid in conformity with the provisions of this section and with the
established grades and lines shown on the topographical survey of the borough,
are hereby declared to be nuisances, and must be taken up and regraded and/or
relaid according to the provisions of this section within 30 days after notice
to the owner or owners so to do by the Council of the borough, and upon failure
of said owner or owners thereof to regrade said sidewalk area, and/or relay
said sidewalk, curb or driveway entrance within the time stipulated, said
Council shall cause the same to be done in the manner herein provided and said
Council shall collect the cost thereof and 10% additional, together with all
charges and expenses, from the owner or owners of the lot or lots in the manner
hereinbefore provided to division (E) above.
   (G)   No sidewalk, curb or driveway entrance heretofore laid with material
or materials not prescribed herein shall be permitted to be repaired but
whenever any such sidewalk, curb or driveway entrance becomes, in the opinion
of said Council, in dangerous condition, notice shall be given to the owner or
owners of the lot or lots abutting thereon to relay the sidewalk, curb or
driveway entrance with the material herein provided, and upon his, her, its or
their failure so to do within 30 days after notice of the said Council shall
cause the same to be done in the manner herein provided and said Council shall
collect the cost thereof and 10% additional, together with all charges and
expenses, from the owner or owners of the lot or lots in the manner
hereinbefore provided in division (E) above.
   (H)   Present brick or macadam sidewalks requiring the replacement of any
portion thereof shall be entirely replaced by a concrete pavement or sidewalk.
In the case of concrete sidewalks, in the event any concrete block thereof
requires the replacement of more than 25% of the total area of said concrete
block, then said concrete block in need of repair shall be replaced in its
entirety.
   (I)   Curbing and sidewalk shall be constructed along the front of each lot
within the borough on which a new building or structure, other than a private
garage, is constructed, where said lot adjoins a public street, road or
highway. All such curbing and/or sidewalk herein required shall be constructed
within one year after the occupancy or use of the said new building or
structure. In the case of a corner lot, curbing and sidewalk shall be
constructed along both the front of the lot and the side of the lot adjacent to
the public street, road or highway. In the case of industrial or commercial
development, Council of the borough may by resolution waive any or all of the
requirements of this division (I) if in its opinion said development is located
in an area of the borough where curb and/or sidewalk is neither desirable nor
necessary.
   (J)   When the curb or driveway entrances are constructed or repaired, and
where no cartway paving exists, all areas of excavation within the cartway area
shall be backfilled with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation No. 2A
modified aggregate material to the grade of the existing adjacent roadway.
Where the cartway was paved, the excavation shall be backfilled with
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation No. 2A modified aggregate material
six-inch depth, bituminous base course five-inch depth, and ID-2 wearing course
one and one-half inch depth of paving restored. The curb line shall be sealed
with AC-20, eight-inch minimum width. All other joints shall also be sealed
with AC-20, four- inch minimum width.
(Ord. 2-1980, passed 7-14-1980; Ord. 4-1982, passed 6-12-1982; Ord. 2-1992,
passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 1-99, passed 11-8-1999; Ord. 9-2009, passed 12-14-2009)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Borough of Topton
Street Occupancy Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT AREA. The area surrounding the immediate area of the permitted work
which can reasonably be assumed to have been affected by the permitted work.
   APPLICANT. The person or entity filing an application under this subchapter
for a permit. Once a permit has been issued, the applicant, or his or her
assignee if the assignment of the permit shall have been approved by the
Borough Manager, shall be deemed the “permittee”.
   BACKFILL. Material used to replace or the act of replacing material removed
during construction.
   BASE COURSE. The layer or layers of specified or selected material of
designed thickness placed on a subbase or a subgrade to support a surface
course.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Borough Council of the Borough of Topton, Berks County,
Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH MANAGER. The person so designated by Borough Council or his or her
representative so designated either by Borough Council or by the Borough
Manager.
   BOROUGH STREET. A street under the jurisdiction of the borough.
   BRIDGE. A structure including supports, erected over a depression or an
obstruction, such as water, street or railway, and having a track or passageway
for carrying traffic or other moving loads and having an opening measured along
the center of the cartway of more than 20 feet between supports.
   CARTWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the sidewalk or shoulder.
   CLEAR ROADSIDE AREA. The portion of right-of-way beyond the pavement edge
within which no existing obstructions are located.
   CULVERT. Any structure under the cartway with an opening of 20 feet or less
measured along the center of the cartway.
   DESIGN MANUAL, PART 5. A publication containing PennDOT’s utility relocation
and accommodation policies, including any amendment thereto and any
substitution or replacement thereof.
   DETOUR. To send traffic by a circuitous route around a portion of a highway
that has been closed in accordance with §
94.33(J) (relating to traffic control plan) or §
94.35(H) (relating to traffic protection and maintenance).
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen occurrence or combination of circumstances which
calls for immediate action or remedy.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery and equipment, together with the necessary supplies
for upkeep and maintenance, and also tools and apparatus necessary for the
proper construction and completion of the work.
   FACILITY. Includes all privately, publicly or cooperatively owned lines and
systems for producing, transmitting or distributing communications,
electricity, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste and other
similar commodities, which directly or indirectly serve the public, and all
appurtenances and attachments thereto.
   FLEXIBLE BASE PAVEMENT. A pavement structure which maintains intimate
contact with and distributes loads to the subgrade and depends on aggregate
interlock, particle friction and cohesion for stability.
   IMPROVED AREA. The area within the right-of-way which has been constructed
for street purposes, including roadbed, pavement, shoulders, slope, sidewalks,
drainage facilities and any other appurtenances.
   INSPECTOR. The borough’s authorized representative assigned to inspect
permit operations.
   PAVEMENT. The combination of subbase, base course, and surface course placed
on a subgrade to support the traffic load and distribute it to the roadbed.
   PennDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   PERMIT. A street occupancy permit issued by the borough pursuant to this
subchapter.
   PERMITTEE. See definition of APPLICANT.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or
political subdivision.
   PLOWING. Placing utility cables underground by means of a plow mechanism.
   PUBLICATION 208 (Current Edition). A PennDOT publication containing
information covering common conditions work crews may encounter during
maintenance, construction, or utility work on or along Pennsylvania’s roadways,
including any amendment thereto or number change covering the same subject and
any substitution or replacement thereof.
   PUBLICATION 408 (Current Edition). A PennDOT publication containing
PennDOT’s highway construction specifications, including any amendment thereto
or number change covering the same subject and any substitution or replacement
thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area between the right-of-way lines of a street.
   RIGID BASE PAVEMENT. A pavement structure which distributes loads to the
subgrade having as one course a portland cement concrete slab of relatively
high bending resistance.
   ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. PennDOT Publication No. 72 containing design
standards for roadway construction, including any amendment thereto or number
change covering the same subject and any substitution or replacement thereof.
   SHOULDER. The portion of the cartway, contiguous to the traffic lanes, for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses and pavements.
   STREET. A strip of land, including the entire right-of-way, open to
vehicular use by the public. The term STREET shall include street, avenue,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway, lane, alley or viaduct.
   STRUCTURE. Any material or a combination of materials which are constructed
or erected, the use of which requires location on or beneath the ground, or
attached to something located on or beneath the ground.
   UTILITY. A person owning a utility facility, including any wholly owned or
controlled subsidiary, and including any plumber or any other contractor hired
or engaged by the owner.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 6-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 94.32 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person including any municipality
authority created by the borough, except any department of the borough, to
perform any work including opening or excavation in or under any borough street
unless and until a permit therefor be secured from the borough for each
separate undertaking. All work performed within the right-of-way shall conform
to the provisions of PennDOT Publication No. 203.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the aforesaid, a permit shall not be required in the
following instances:
      (1)   Emergency repairs of utility facilities may be performed by using
an emergency permit card pursuant to §
94.34 (relating to emergency work);
      (2)   Permit applications are not required for the placing of newspaper
receptacles or mailboxes, although their location is subject to the maintenance
requirements of the borough; and
      (3)   Permit applications are not required for accessing the utility
facility through a manhole.
   (C)   The Borough Manager or any duly authorized agent of the borough may
prohibit any work being done without a proper permit or contrary to the terms
thereof.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for permit. Application in writing shall be made to the
borough at the Borough Hall, 205 S. Callowhill Street, Topton, Pennsylvania
19562, or at such other address as Borough Council may from time to time
designate by resolution, on the appropriate form and signed by the person
making the proposed street opening or excavation, setting out the location of
the proposed work, opening or excavation, the size thereof and the purpose
therefor. The person making and signing said application shall comply with all
the provisions of this section as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Issuance of permits. Permits will only be issued to utilities.
   (C)   Time extension. A permit is valid for a one-year period as specified
on the permit. If the permittee has not completed all authorized work by the
completion date specified on the permit, an application shall be submitted
requesting a time extension on the permit. If approved, a supplement will be
issued by the borough.
   (D)   Extension of permit scope. Whenever the excavation, opening or trench
exceeds the size set forth in the application, an amendment to the permit must
be secured within 48 hours to cover such extra excavation, opening or trench.
   (E)   Filing fee and certificates of insurance. The application shall be
accompanied by a filing fee as established from time to time by appropriate
resolution duly adopted by the Borough Council. In addition, a certificate of
insurance covering the utility who will be making the excavation opening or
trench shall also be submitted as set forth in §
94.35(L) before the permit is issued.
   (F)   Deposit and bonding. Except for public utility corporations operating
under a franchise covering an area in whole or in part within the borough, the
application shall be accompanied by a deposit or bond with a surety that is
licensed to transact such business in the commonwealth, in double the deposit
amount to cover the cost of temporary and permanent restoration and to cover
the cost of all inspections made by the Borough Inspector or Manager within the
improved area of the right-of-way of the street resulting from the permitted
work in the event that the borough shall make the said restoration. The borough
may, at its option, permit the applicant to make said restorations, but a
deposit or bond in double the deposit amount shall nevertheless accompany the
application as a guarantee that the said restorations will be made. In either
event, the amount of the deposit or bond shall be established by the Borough
Manager.
   (G)   Bonding of public utilities.
      (1)   Public utility corporations operating under a franchise covering an
area located in whole or in part within the borough shall have on file with the
borough a bond in the amount of $5,000 or as may from time to time be
established by resolution of Borough Council with a surety that is licensed to
transact such business in the commonwealth, which bond shall be renewed
annually, covering the cost of temporary and permanent restoration and covering
the cost of all inspections made by the borough Inspector or Manager pertaining
to all openings or excavations made or to be made in a calendar year, or shall
furnish a bond in the amount determined by the Borough Manager covering the
aforesaid costs pertaining to proposed openings or excavation set out in the
application. The aforesaid bonds shall have either corporate surety or other
surety approved by the Borough Solicitor and shall be conditioned to indemnify
the borough in the event of any loss, liability or damage that may result or
accrue from or be due to the making, existence or manner of guarding or
constructing any such opening or excavation during the term of said bond.
      (2)   Said bonds shall be approved or disapproved by the Borough
Solicitor. The bond shall then be filed with the Borough Manager.
   (H)   Municipal exemption. Any municipality authority created by the borough
shall be exempt from filing the permit fees, deposits and bonds, and from the
inspection requirements of divisions (E), (F), (G) above and (K) below. Any
department of the borough shall be exempt from all regulations and requirements
of this subchapter.
   (I)   Blasting bond and pre-blast inspections. When the applicant
anticipates that blasting operations will be necessary in order to perform the
permitted work, an executed blasting bond shall be submitted with the
application as set forth in § 93.35(M). The Borough Manager shall determine the
amount of the blasting bond. In addition, the Borough Manager shall also
determine the need for pre-blast inspections of structures or facilities which
may be affected by the permitted work. Costs for said inspections shall be
borne by the applicant.
   (J)   Traffic control plan. When the applicant anticipates that it will be
necessary to close a portion of a street to vehicular traffic in order to
perform the permitted work, the applicant shall submit a traffic control plan
with the application for review and approval by the Borough Manager and Police
Department prior to issuance of the permit.
   (K)   Additional inspection fees. If the Borough Manager determines that the
permitted work is of sufficient magnitude or importance to warrant assignment
of one or more Borough Inspectors to inspect the permitted work on a more than
spot inspection basis, the applicant shall be charged for all salary, overhead
and expenses incurred by each assigned Inspector and the Borough Manager.
   (L)   Authorization to begin work. Upon application duly made in accordance
with the regulations set forth in this subchapter, a permit will be issued by
the Borough Manager subject to this subchapter and the conditions contained on
the permit and its attachments and supplements. The permit will be the
applicant’s authority to proceed with the work and will also serve as a receipt
for the fees accompanying the application.
   (M)   Work completion notification. When all permitted work has been
completed, the Borough Manager shall be notified within 48 hours of the
completion of all work.
   (N)   Additional deposits and fees. Should the costs of restorations and/or
inspections completed by the borough exceed the amount of the deposit or bond,
the applicant shall, upon written notification by the borough, immediately
reimburse the borough for any portion of the costs associated with making the
said inspections and/or restorations not covered by the deposit or bond.
   (O)   Return of deposit or bond. When the borough permits the applicant to
make the restorations in accordance with the requirements of §
94.36, the borough shall, within 45 days of written notification of completion
of final restoration, return the portion of the deposit or bond, other than the
bond of a public utility corporation set forth in division (G) above, which was
being held as a guarantee for the performance of the said restorations.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.34 EMERGENCY WORK.
   (A)   Permit administration procedure. Emergency repairs involving the
placing of facilities or opening of the surface within the right-of-way may be
performed prior to obtaining a permit provided the following procedure is
adhered to.
      (1)   The utility shall immediately notify the borough by telephone when
the necessity for an emergency repair occurs.
      (2)   Prior to opening the surface or placing utility facilities within
the right-of-way, the utility work crew shall enter the following information
on the emergency permit card hereinafter provided for in legible handwriting,
using indelible ink:
         (a)   Date emergency work is started;
         (b)   Time emergency work is started;
         (c)   Location of emergency work site; and
         (d)   Description of emergency work.
      (3)   The completed, original emergency permit card shall be located at
the work site and shall be available for inspection by any representative of
the borough. Reproduced copies of the original card are not valid.
      (4)   A regular permit shall be applied for within five days to confirm
and set forth, in detail, any work performed. The application number shall then
be entered on the emergency permit card by the applicant.
      (5)   All work performed under the authority of an emergency permit card
shall conform to the regulations set forth in this subchapter, including
without limitation those regulations set forth in §
94.35 (relating to general conditions), §
94.36 (relating to special conditions - subsurface operations) and §
94.37 (relating to special conditions - above-ground facilities).
   (B)   Use of card. Each emergency permit card is valid for two years or 25
emergency repairs, whichever occurs first.
      (1)   Emergency permit cards may be obtained by a utility by letter of
request addressed to the Borough Manager listing thereon the number of
emergency permit cards desired. The fee for such cards shall be set by
resolution of Borough Council.
      (2)   The holder of emergency permit cards is responsible for assigning
the proper emergency permit cards to its work crews.
      (3)   Each emergency permit card shall be returned to the borough within
15 days after either the twenty-fifth emergency repair authorized by the card
or two years from the card issuance date, whichever occurs first.
   (C)   Exceptions. Emergency repairs to utility facilities within the right-
of-way do not require an emergency permit card in the following instances;
however, the provisions contained in PennDOT Publication No. 203 shall be
adhered to: accessing the utility facility through a manhole.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.35 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions shall apply to permits issued pursuant to §
94.33.
   (A)   Scope of permit. The permit shall be binding upon the permittee, its
agents, contractors, successors and assigns.
      (1)   The permittee shall be responsible for causing compliance with all
terms and conditions of the permit by its agents, contractors and successors.
      (2)   The permit shall be located at the work site and shall be available
for inspection by any representative of the borough authorized to inspect
permits.
      (3)   The permit shall be maintained as a permanent record and remain in
effect, subject to the permit conditions and regulations set forth in this
subchapter, as long as the facilities authorized by the permit occupy the
right-of-way.
      (4)   Responsibility for compliance with the terms of the permit cannot
be assigned or transferred by the permittee without first obtaining approval
from the Borough Manager. Any facility installed under the authority of the
said permit shall be subject to removal or relocation at the expense of the
permittee.
   (B)   Additional restrictions. All work authorized by the permit is subject
to:
      (1)   All applicable federal, state and borough laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Act No. 247, approved October 26, 1972 (P.L. 1017) (62 Pa.C.S.A.
Ch. 33), as amended, concerning environmental control measures related to
pollution and the preservation of public natural resources;
         (b)   Act No. 287, approved December 10, 1974 (P.L. 852) (73 P.S. §§
176 et seq.), or as amended, concerning protection of the public health and
safety by preventing excavation or demolition work from damaging underground
utility facilities; and
         (c)   OSHA construction safety and health regulations, 39 F.R. 22801,
June 24, 1974, as published in the Federal Register (29 C.F.R. §§ 1926.1 et
seq.) or as amended.
      (2)   Any rights of any person; and
      (3)   The conditions, restrictions and provisions of the permit.
   (C)   Borough standards
      (1)   The work shall be done at such time and in such manner as shall be
consistent with the safety of the public and shall conform to all requirements
and standards of the borough. If at any time it shall be found by the borough
that the work is not being done or has not been properly performed, the
permittee upon being notified by the borough shall immediately take the
necessary steps, at its own expense, to place the work in condition to conform
to such requirements or standards.
      (2)   Whenever any requirement or standard if the borough is superseded
by a requirement or standard of the federal government or of the commonwealth,
the requirement or standard of the federal government or of the commonwealth,
as applicable, shall apply.
   (D)   Permittee responsibilities.
      (1)   The permittee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses
incident to or arising from the permitted work, including the prescribed fees
for same, the cost of making and maintaining temporary restoration of the
disturbed areas and making permanent restoration. The permittee shall reimburse
the borough for any and all inspection costs related to the permitted work,
which the borough may deem it necessary to incur, within 30 days after receipt
of the borough’s invoice.
      (2)   In the event of failure or neglect by the permittee to perform and
comply with the permit or the regulations set forth in this subchapter, the
borough may immediately revoke and annul the permit and order and direct the
permittee to remove any or all structures, equipment or property belonging to
the permittee and/or its contractors from the legal limits of the right-of-way
and to restore the right-of-way to its former condition.
      (3)   If work is stopped on a project for any reason, other than at the
end of any normal work day, and any excavations or openings, in the opinion of
the borough, remains open for an unreasonable period, the permittee, if so
directed, shall refill the excavations or openings and work shall not be
resumed until the permittee is prepared to proceed immediately with the work to
its completion. In the event the permittee fails to refill the excavations or
openings or proceed until completion of the work upon notice from the borough
to do so, the borough may perform the necessary and required work and shall be
reimbursed for the costs by the permittee within 30 days after receipt of the
borough’s invoice.
      (4)   If the permittee, after making an opening in the surface to place
or repair a facility or for any other purpose, fails to restore any portion of
the right-of-way to conform with this section, §
94.36 (relating to special conditions - subsurface operations) and §
94.37 (relating to special conditions - above-ground facilities) upon notice
from the borough to do so, the borough reserves the right to do the work and
the permittee shall reimburse the borough for the costs within 30 days after
receipt of the borough’s invoice.
   (E)   Altering vegetation prohibited. This permit does not authorize the
permittee to cut, remove or destroy trees or shrubbery within the right-of-way
unless specifically noted on the permit.
   (F)   Altering drainage prohibited.
      (1)   Unless specifically authorized by the permit, the permittee shall
not:
         (a)   Alter the existing drainage pattern or the existing flow of
drainage water; and
         (b)   Direct additional drainage of surface water toward, onto or into
or in any way affect the street right-of-way or street facilities.
      (2)   The issuance of a permit does not authorize the permittee to
direct, divert or otherwise drain surface waters over the property of any other
property owner.
         (a)   The issuance of a permit does not in any way relieve the
permittee from acquiring the consent, permission or other authorization from
any property owner who may be adversely affected by drainage alterations.
         (b)   The permittee is responsible for any damage caused to any
private or public property as a result of work done under the permit.
   (G)   Equipment damage to street.
      (1)   To protect the pavement and shoulders, all equipment shall have
rubber wheels or runners and shall have rubber, wood or similar protective pads
between the outriggers and the surface unless otherwise authorized by the
permit.
      (2)   In the event that other than rubber equipped machinery is
authorized for use, the pavement and shoulders shall be protected by the use of
matting, wood or other suitable protective material having a minimum thickness
of four inches, unless the permit requires the permittee to repave the roadway
full width.
      (3)   If the equipment damages the pavement or shoulders, the permittee
shall restore the pavement or shoulders to their former condition, at the
permittee’s expense.
   (H)   Traffic protection and maintenance. Maintenance and protection of
traffic shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of PennDOT as
set forth in Publication No. 203.
      (1)   The permittee shall provide and maintain all necessary precautions
to prevent injury or damage to persons and property in accordance with
instructions furnished by the Borough Manager. A traffic control plan shall be
submitted to the Borough Manager and approved by the Borough Manager and Police
Department before detouring any traffic.
      (2)   Warning signs shall be placed in advance of the actual operation in
such a manner as to be visible to the traveling public and substantial
barricades with adequate illumination shall be provided and maintained for any
excavations or openings in the improved area.
      (3)   Designated employees of the permittee shall be assigned by the
permittee to direct one-lane traffic. Flaggers shall be provided as specified
in the permit and in accordance with PennDOT Publication No. 203.
   (I)   Streets under construction. No permit application will be approved for
occupancy of a section of right-of-way within which a street construction or
reconstruction project is underway, or if a contract for such a project has
been let, until the project is completed and accepted by the Borough Manager.
The provisions of this division (I) shall not apply:
      (1)   In case of emergency, the permittee shall procure the consent of
the borough’s Manager to do such work as may be deemed necessary to correct the
existing emergency condition in accordance with §
94.34 (relating to emergency work); or
      (2)   Where the permittee has been authorized by the borough to relocate
or adjust their facilities simultaneously with such street construction.
   (J)   Sharing facilities; subsurface. The application shall identify any
other utility’s facility that will be sharing a trench or structure with the
applicant’s facilities.
   (K)   Indemnification. The permittee shall fully indemnify and save harmless
and defend the borough of and from all liability for damages or injury
occurring to any person or persons or property:
      (1)   Through or in consequence of any act or omission of any contractor,
agent, servant or employee of the permittee or other person engaged or employed
in, about or upon the work, by, at the instance, or with the approval or
consent of the permittee;
      (2)   From any failure of the permittee or any such person to comply with
the permit or the regulations set forth in this subchapter; and
      (3)   From the failure during the two-year period after completion of the
permitted work, of the street in the immediate area of the work performed under
the permit where there is no similar failure of the street beyond the area
adjacent to the area of the permitted work.
   (L)   Insurance. The permittee shall submit to the Borough Manager’s office
a certificate or certificates of insurance for public liability and property
damage, in form and amount satisfactory to the Borough Manager, to cover any
loss that may be incurred for or on account of any matter, cause or thing
arising out of the construction, reconstruction, repair, relocation or
installation of the permitted structures or facilities.
   (M)   Blasting. No predrilling or blasting shall be permitted within the
right-of-way, unless authorized by the permit.
      (1)   If the permittee proposes to blast, the permittee shall make,
execute and deliver a bond to the borough in an amount determined by the
Borough Manager with surety by a company duly registered and authorized to do
business in the commonwealth, conditioned that the borough will be saved
harmless from any damages whatsoever to the improved area and all other private
and public property for a period of one year from the date of the completion of
the last work covered by the permit.
      (2)   When blasting is anticipated within 100 feet of any building or
structure, a detailed plan of excavating, shoring, blasting and backfilling
procedures shall be submitted with the application to the borough for review
and approval. The Borough Manager may require pre-blast inspections to be made
of all structures or facilities which in his or her opinion may be affected by
the permitted work.
      (3)   Only controlled blasting, as specified in § 203.3(d), PennDOT
Publication No. 408, shall be permitted within the improved area.
   (N)   Maintaining structure or facility. As long as the permittee operates
and leaves in place any structure or facility in, upon or along the right-of-
way, the permittee shall maintain and keep it in good order and repair.
   (O)   Damaged structure or facility. If at any time the structure or
facility shall become damaged from any cause whatsoever the permittee shall
have it removed, repaired or otherwise made safe immediately upon notification
from the borough.
   (P)   Damage to street.
      (1)   If there is a failure of the street, including slope or any other
appurtenance thereto, in the immediate area of the permitted work within two
years after completion of the permitted work and there is no similar failure of
the street beyond the area adjacent to the area of the permitted work, the
permittee shall have absolute responsibility to make all temporary and
permanent restoration including restoration of the adjacent area if it has also
failed.
      (2)   If there is a failure of the street, including slope or any other
appurtenance thereto, in the area adjacent to the immediate area of the
permitted work within two years after the completion of the permitted work and
there is no similar failure of the street in the area of the permitted work or
beyond the area adjacent to the area of the permitted work, it shall be
presumed that the work done by the permittee was the proximate cause of the
failure and the permittee shall be responsible to make all temporary and
permanent restoration unless the presumption is rebutted by clear and
convincing evidence.
      (3)   Where the permittee has the responsibility to restore the street,
including slope or any other appurtenance thereto, under any of the above
provisions, including instances where a presumption of responsibility has not
been rebutted, the permittee shall have the duty to restore the improved area
in accordance with the original permit. If the permittee fails to restore the
improved area properly, the borough shall have the authority to do the work at
the permittee’s expense. The permittee shall reimburse the borough for the
costs within 30 days after receipt of the borough’s invoice.
   (Q)   Future street changes. If at any time in the future the street, in
which a permitted structure or facility is installed or constructed, is altered
for public convenience or necessity, the owner of the facility shall at its own
cost and expense, change or relocate all or any part of the structure or
facility authorized by the permit which interferes with such street alterations
or which is inconsistent with the purpose of the street alterations.
   (R)   Approval by Inspector. Approval by the borough’s Inspector of all or
part of any permitted work shall not constitute acknowledgment that the work
was performed in accordance with the permit; nor shall such approval of the
Inspector act as a release of the permittee or waiver hy the borough of its
right to seek performance or restitution from the permittee.
   (S)   Restrictions upon opening newly improved streets.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued by the Borough Manager which would allow
an excavation or opening in a paved and improved street surface that is less
than five years old, unless the applicant can demonstrate clearly that:
         (a)   The public health or safety requires that the proposed work be
permitted; or
         (b)   An emergency condition exists that requires that the work be
performed.
      (2)   In either instance described in division (S)(1) above, as a
condition of any permit issued, the applicant shall be required to pave/
restore/overlay a minimum 12 feet width (or the entire cartway width, if deemed
appropriate by the Borough Manager in his or her sole discretion), which width
shall run the entire length of the opening, plus 50 feet on each side of the
two sides of the length of the opening, and shall be accomplished in accordance
with borough specifications. Any financial security provided for in this
chapter shall reflect the increased dimension required by this section, if
applicable.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 6-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 94.36 SPECIAL CONDITIONS; SUBSURFACE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Drilling, boring, driving or tunneling across improved area.
      (1)   When crossing under any improved area, the opening for a utility
facility shall be drilled, bored or driven on a horizontal plane at a minimum
depth of three feet below the surface of the street and its swale ditches.
         (a)   The facility may be placed by tunneling when authorized by the
permit. When tunneling, after the facility is placed the hole shall be
backfilled with 1:3:6 concrete of dry consistency and tamped.
         (b)   Wet boring is prohibited.
      (2)   No openings for the purpose of placing utility facilities or other
structures under the improved area by drilling, boring, driving or tunneling
shall be made closer than three feet to the edge of the roadway, unless the
permit authorizes a lesser clearance.
      (3)   Facilities and other structures crossing under the improved area
shall be constructed so as to assure the safety of the traveling public and to
preclude the necessity of entering upon the improved area to effect future
maintenance or replacement. Such facilities shall comply with applicable
provisions of PennDOT Design Manual, Part 5.
   (B)   Trenching across improved area.
      (1)   No trenching shall be permitted across the improved area, unless
authorized by the permit.
      (2)   Trenching across the improved area may be authorized by the permit
where drilling, boring, driving or tunneling are not feasible because:
         (a)   The subsurface is solid rock;
         (b)   There are other facilities located longitudinally under the
improved area and their location precludes methods other than trenching;
         (c)   Adjacent development in a very congested urban area makes the
construction of a tunneling or boring shaft impossible; and
         (d)   The Borough Manager determines that the disruption to traffic
and length of exposure will be minimal.
      (3)   When trenching is specified in the permit and the utility facility
is to be placed across the street in one piece, the trenching operation shall
be performed by the following method.
         (a)   Traffic shall be routed over one-half the pavement width.
         (b)   The closed half of the pavement shall be opened to the required
depth and bridges with steel plates.
         (c)   Traffic shall be shifted to the bridged half of the pavement.
         (d)   The remaining half of the pavement shall be opened to the
required depth.
         (e)   The facility shall be placed full width.
         (f)   The open trench shall be backfilled and restored half-width in
accordance with this section (relating to special conditions - subsurface
operations).
         (g)   Traffic shall be shifted to the restored half of the pavement.
         (h)   The bridging shall be removed and the remaining half of the
trench shall be backfilled and restored in accordance with this section
(relating to special conditions - subsurface operations).
   (C)   Installation while street closed. If the Borough Manager determines
that the duration of trenching operation can be minimized to allow a temporary
closing of the street, the entire cartway may be opened to install the
facility. Permission to do so must be stated on the permit.
   (D)   Trench openings parallel to street.
      (1)   Trench openings for utility facilities and other structures shall
be made so that the near edge of the opening is at least three feet outside the
edge of the cartway unless the permit authorizes a lesser clearance, with a
minimum depth of three feet from the surface to the top of the facility.
      (2)   On an unpaved street, the near edge of the trench opening shall be
at least 12 feet from the general centerline of the traveled street, or as
authorized in division (D)(1) above.
      (3)   No trench opening shall be left open for a distance of more than
200 feet at any one time, unless authorized by the permit. In addition, no more
than 40 feet of trench shall be left open on the shoulder of a street at the
end of any work day, unless authorized by the permit.
   (E)   Plates or bridging required. Except for emergency repairs of utility
facilities or as set forth on the permit, work shall be stopped prior to peak
traffic hours that exist on a particular street on a particular day. Steel
plates or bridging shall be placed over all openings made within the improved
area which are less than six feet in either length or width when work is
stopped. The plates or bridging shall be extended a minimum of 18 inches from
each edge of the opening and shall be secured in a safe manner.
   (F)   Plowing installation of utility facilities.
      (1)   No plowing shall be permitted within the right-of-way, unless
authorized by the permit.
      (2)   Plowing operations will be authorized only in unpaved shoulders.
      (3)   Plowing operations are not allowed from November through March,
inclusive, unless authorized by the permit.
      (4)   No plowing shall be permitted within three feet from the edge of
the cartway. A greater distance shall be attained wherever possible.
      (5)   The opening shall be a minimum depth of three feet. If this depth
cannot be consistently maintained, the proper depth shall be achieved by
trenching.
      (6)   The utility facility shall be installed under any structures that
are less than three feet deep. All disturbed structures shall be repaired or
replaced by the permittee.
      (7)   The disturbed area shall be restored in conjunction with the
plowing operation. If heaving occurs the disturbed area shall be reshaped,
backfilled with select granular material (2-RC) and compacted until the
disturbed area is restored to a condition equal to that which existed before
plowing.
   (G)   Disposition of materials.
      (1)   The permittee shall keep the improved area free of all material
which may be deposited by vehicles traveling upon or entering onto the street
during the performance of work authorized by the permit.
      (2)   The permittee shall be responsible for controlling dust conditions
created by its own operations.
      (3)   All excess material and material that is not suitable for backfill
shall be removed and disposed of outside the right-of-way as the work
progresses.
      (4)   All retained suitable material shall be placed or stored on the
side of the operation farthest from traffic, unless otherwise authorized by the
permit, and in such a manner that there will be no interference with the flow
of water in any gutter, drain, pipe, culvert, ditch or waterway.
   (H)   Backfilling. All openings made in the cartway or in paved shoulders
shall be backfilled by the permittee in accordance with the following minimum
standards.
      (1)   The opening shall be backfilled with select granular material (2-
RC), compacted in not more than six inch layers, with approved vibratory
compaction equipment.
      (2)   Compaction shall be completed to the bottom elevation of the
existing pavement.
      (3)   Temporary or permanent restoration shall be placed at the end of
each working day.
   (I)   Restoration of flexible base pavements. Base and surface restoration
of flexible base pavements shall be done in accordance with one of the two
methods listed below, as specified in the permit.
      (1)   High early strength concrete restoration method (to be used when
permanent restoration is made upon completion of backfill). Prior to
replacement of the base course, one foot from each edge of the trench shall be
sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to the bottom elevation of the existing
base course, and the detached material shall be removed. Drilling shall not be
permitted.
         (a)   The base course shall be replaced with a minimum of eight-inch,
high early strength concrete to the elevation of the existing crushed aggregate
base course. The high early strength concrete shall then be cured in accordance
with § 501.3(K), PennDOT Publication No. 408. If a trench exceeds four feet in
width, No. 6 reinforcing bars shall be installed in the concrete base course,
placed at six-inch centers measured longitudinally in the direction of the
trench, with a two-inch clearance on each end and a three-inch clearance on the
bottom.
         (b)   Following the concrete curing, a tack coat of bituminous
material shall be applied in accordance with § 460, PennDOT Form 408.
         (c)   After the tack coat has cured, the bituminous binder and/or
wearing course shall be placed so as to conform to the existing type of road
binder and wearing courses.
         (d)   The edges of the repair shall be sealed with the type and class
of material designated for the surface course for a width of 12 inches centered
on the repair joint in accordance with PennDOT.
      (2)   Ninety day temporary and permanent restoration method (to be used
when temporary restoration is made followed by a minimum 90-day settlement
period).
         (a)   Temporary restoration. Temporary restoration shall be made and
kept in place for a minimum of 90 days after backfilling the trench. The select
granular material (2-RC) backfill material shall be placed in accordance with
division (H) above with a surface of a two-inch compacted 2P-2 bituminous
stockpile mix.
         (b)   Permanent restoration.
            1.   After the minimum 90-day period, but before 210 days, the
temporary restoration shall be removed and permanent restoration made.
            2.   Prior to making the permanent restoration, one foot from each
edge of the trench shall be sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to the
bottom elevation of the existing base course, and the detached material shall
be removed. Drilling shall not be permitted.
            3.   The permanent base course shall consist of bituminous concrete
meeting the requirements of § 305, PennDOT Form 408, and having a minimum depth
of five inches or a depth equal to the existing base course, whichever is
greater.
            4.   The permanent surface course shall be placed in accordance
with the depths of the existing bituminous surface, but in no case shall the
wearing course be less than one and one-half inch ID-2 or FJ-1.
            5.   The edge of the repair shall be sealed with the type and class
of material designated for the surface course for a width of 12 inches centered
on the repair joint in accordance with PennDOT Form 408, § 401.3.
   (J)   Temporary and permanent restoration of plan or reinforced cement
concrete pavements.
      (1)   Upon completion of the trench backfill, the select granular
material (2-RC) shall be placed in accordance with division (H) above with a
temporary surface of compacted 2P-2 bituminous stockpile mix. Permanent
restoration can be made at any time prior to the expiration of 210 days from
the backfilling of the trench. If permanent restoration is completed
immediately after backfilling, temporary restoration is not required.
      (2)   Prior to replacement of the base, one foot from each edge of the
trench shall be sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to a depth of at least
three inches, and the detached material shall be removed. Drilling shall not be
permitted where sawing or cutting is required.
         (a)   The replacement base shall consist of high early strength
concrete equal in depth to the original concrete pavement.
         (b)   On existing reinforced cement concrete pavements, reinforcing
steel and expansion tie bolts shall be placed in accordance with PennDOT
Roadway Construction Standard RC-26.
      (3)   The surface shall be restored as follows.
         (a)   The surface shall be cured in accordance with § 501.3(K),
PennDOT shall be given a textured finish in accordance with § 501.4, PennDOT
Publication No. 408.
         (b)   Surface restoration of a cement concrete pavement which has a
bituminous surface shall be done in accordance with division (I)(1) above.
         (c)   The edge of the repair shall be sealed with the type and class
of material designated for the surface course for a width of 12 inches centered
on the repair joint in accordance with PennDOT.
   (K)   Shoulder restoration.
      (1)   Paved and stabilized shoulders.
         (a)   Temporary restoration. Temporary restoration shall be made and
kept in place for a minimum of 90 days after backfilling the trench. The select
granular material (2-RC) backfill material shall be placed in accordance with
division (H) above, or any substitution or replacement thereof, of this
subchapter with a surface of a two-inch compacted 2P-2 bituminous stockpile
mix.
         (b)   Permanent restoration.
            1.   After the minimum 90-day period, but before 210 days, the
temporary restoration shall be removed and permanent restoration made.
            2.   Prior to making the permanent restoration, one foot from each
edge of the trench shall be sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to the
bottom elevation of the existing base course, and the detached material shall
be removed. Drilling shall not be permitted.
            3.   Paved and stabilized shoulders shall be reconstructed and
restored to a serviceable condition, of the same type as existed before the
start of work.
      (2)   Unpaved shoulders.
         (a)   Retained material which complies with § 206.2, PennDOT
Publication No. 408, may be used for backfill, up to within 18 inches of final
grade. The final 18 inches of backfill shall consist of select granular
material (No. 2-RC). The width of the shoulder shall be no less than four feet.
         (b)   If the length of the facility exceeds 50 feet, the shoulder
shall be graded, rolled and penetrated with RT-2C or MC-30 bituminous material
at a minimum rate of twenty-five hundredths gallon per square yard and chipped
or lightly sanded to prevent tracking of oil onto the pavement.
   (L)   Appurtenances to underground installations.
      (1)   The top of every manhole, valve box or other access to the facility
shall be at the same elevation as the surface in which it is located.
      (2)   The surface surrounding manhole or valve covers located in
shoulders shall be paved in such a manner as to prevent washouts.
   (M)   Additional restoration.
      (1)   All disturbed portions of the street, including all appurtenances
and structures such as guardrail or drain pipes, shall be restored to a
condition equal to or better than that which existed before the start of any
work authorized by the permit.
      (2)   If the permittee opens the street pavement, whether to install a
new facility or to modify an existing facility or for any reason other than to
perform emergency work pursuant to §
94.34 (relating to emergency work), and the wearing course is less than five
years old, the permittee shall, in addition to the minimum restoration
conditions outlined in this section (relating to special conditions -
subsurface operations), overlay the street pavement in accordance with the
following conditions.
         (a)   When a longitudinal opening longer than ten feet and wider than
three feet is made in the street pavement, the permittee shall overlay the
traffic lane(s) in which the opening was made, for the entire length of street
that was opened.
         (b)   When two or more transverse trench openings are made by the
permittee in the street pavement less than 100 feet apart, the permittee shall
overlay all traffic lanes in which the openings were made, for the entire
length of the street between such openings.
      (3)   Regardless of the age of the wearing course, when both longitudinal
and transverse trench openings are made in the street pavement, the borough may
require the permittee to overlay all traffic lanes in which such openings were
made, for the entire length of street that was opened, if the Borough Manager
determines that the present serviceability of the street has been impaired by
the openings.
   (N)   Paint identification. Upon completion of temporary and permanent
restoration, the restoration
date shall be painted on the pavement immediately adjacent to the cut. The
painted date shall Indicate the month and year numerically. The numerals shall
be at least six inches in height. The paint shall be of a durable wearing
quality and shall be color coded as follows: blue (water); yellow (gas-
petroleum); red (electric); orange (communications); and green (sewer).
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.37 SPECIAL CONDITIONS; ABOVE-GROUND FACILITIES.
   (A)   General rule. Permits will not be issued to install above-ground
facilities which the Borough Manager determines to have a high accident
potential.
   (B)   Location of above-ground facilities.
      (1)   New poles, guys and other above-ground facilities shall be
installed outside the street’s clear roadside area as near the right-of-way
line as practicable, in accordance with § 9-08B(1.) of PennDOT Design Manual,
Part 52.
      (2)   Replacement of poles, guys and other above-ground facilities shall
comply with § 9.08B(2.) and (B)(3.) of PennDOT Design Manual, Part 5.
      (3)   Installation of poles, guys and other above-ground facilities in
locations where highway curb exists shall comply with § 9-08B(4.) of PennDOT
Design Manual, Part 5.
   (C)   Location of wires, cables or conductors. All wires, cables or
conductors which overhang any portion of the right-of-way shall be placed so as
to provide a minimum vertical clearance of 18 feet over the roadway, except
where the National Electrical Safety Code required vertical clearances in
excess of 18 feet due to voltage and/or span lengths.
   (D)   Guys.
      (1)   Guys shall be placed so as to avoid interference with vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Guys shall be insulated or grounded in compliance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
   (E)   Identification of poles. Each pole shall bear the name or initials of
the facility owner and the pole number(s) assigned by the facility owner.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.38 RECORD EXAMINATION.
   All permit records, restoration records and emergency work records shall be
made available for examination by an authorized representative of the borough
upon request.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.39 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of the regulations set forth in this subchapter shall
constitute grounds for imposition of any or all of the following penalties:
   (A)   Upon receipt of oral or written notice of any violation(s) from the
borough’s authorized representative, the permittee shall cease to perform any
further work in the permitted area except to restore the area to a safe
condition. No further work shall commence in the permitted area until the
violation(s) has been remedied. Where the permittee has received oral notice of
the violation(s), written notice shall be sent to the permittee within five
days of receipt of the oral notice;
   (B)   Confiscation of the applicant’s permit or emergency permit card by the
Borough Manager;
   (C)   Revocation of the applicant’s permit or emergency permit card by the
Borough Manager; and/or
   (D)   Removal by the utility facilities owner of facilities installed
without a permit or in violation of the regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.40 REPEALER, WAIVERS, AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Except as hereafter set forth in division (B) below, all existing
ordinances or parts of ordinances of the borough inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to
give this subchapter full force and effect.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything set forth above in this subchapter, whenever
the provisions of this subchapter shall be inconsistent with the provisions of
the subdivision and land development ordinance (as codified in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances), the zoning ordinance (as codified in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) and/or the plumbing ordinance (as
codified in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances), as each of the aforesaid are from time
to time amended, and the provisions of any of said ordinances are more
restrictive or contain more stringent requirements than are set forth in this
subchapter, the provisions of said ordinances shall prevail and be applicable.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter are intended as minimum standards
for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the residents
and inhabitants of the borough. If an applicant for a permit is able to
demonstrate to Borough Council, at a public meeting of Borough Council, that
the literal compliance with any provision of this subchapter will be
unreasonable and will cause undue hardship as applied to the applicant, the
Borough Council may grant a waiver of such provision, if the waiver will not be
contrary to the public interest.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 94.41 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Base fees for permit.
 
First 10 LF or 30 sq. ft.                     $25
If over 10 LF or 30 sq. ft.                   +$100
For each fraction of 10 LF or 30 sq. ft. over +$100, plus actual inspection fee
base
 
      (1)   Requirements for work:
         (a)   If a street cut exceeds 10 linear feet in length, the entire
area shall be milled and overlayed for a width of one-half the street/alley
width, unless the repair crosses the center line of the street/alley, then the
mill and overlay shall be for the full width of the street/alley.
         (b)   If two street cuts are made less than 100 feet apart, the entire
area between the two cuts and including the two cuts shall be milled and
overlayed for a width of one-half the street/alley width, unless the repair
crosses the center line of the street/alley, then the mill and overlay shall be
for the full width of the street/alley.
         (c)   If more than four cuts are made within a 500-foot span in the
street/alley, the section must be milled and overlayed for one-half the width
of the street/alley, unless the repair crosses the center line of the street/
alley, then the mill and overlay shall be for the full width of the street/
alley for the entire length of work.
      (2)   Milling and overlay may also be required by the Borough Manager or
the designee of the Borough Manager.
   (B)   Permit issuance fees. Issuance fees are used to defray costs incurred
by the borough in reviewing and processing the application and plan(s),
including the preliminary review of the site location identified in the
application, and issuing and processing the permit.
 
Emergency permit card                                                $5
Issuance fee                                                         $20
Supplement fee (each 6-month time extension) (each submitted change) $10
 
   (C)   General permit inspection fees. General inspection fees are used to
defray costs incurred by the borough in spot inspection(s) of permitted work
and/or subsequent inspection(s) after the permitted work has been completed, to
ensure compliance with the permit and these regulations.
      (1)   Underground facilities (e.g., pipelines, buried cable-with
pedestals, conduit, manholes, headwall, inlet and grate). This fee is
calculated on the total linear feet of the facility or facilities being
permitted within the right-of-way.
 
Physically connected facility or facilities (first 50 feet or fraction $20
thereof) (each section)
Additional physically connected facilities (each 100 feet or fraction  $5
thereof)
 
      (2)   Surface openings. Fifteen dollars (e.g., service connections
performed independently of underground facility installation, pipe line
repairs) (each opening).
      (3)   Above-ground facilities (e.g., poles, guys and/or anchors if
installed independently of poles).
 
Up to 10 physically connected above-ground facilities (each continuous  $20
group)
Additional above-ground physically connected facilities (each pole with $2
appurtenances)
 
      (4)   Crossings (e.g., “overhead” tipples, conveyors or pedestrian walk-
ways and “undergrade” subways or mines). Eighty dollars.
   (D)   Additional inspection fees. If the borough determines that the
permitted work is of sufficient magnitude or importance to warrant assignment
of one or more inspectors to observe the said work, on more than a spot
inspection basis, the permittee shall be charged for all salary, overhead and
expenses incurred by each inspector and the borough.
   (E)   Temporary and permanent restoration fees. (Public utilities franchised
in the borough are exempt.)
      (1)   Restoration fees cover the cost for the borough to make necessary
temporary and permanent restoration of trenches. A deposit of the required fee
by the applicant shall be held by the borough to guarantee that the
restorations have been made. If the restorations are to be made by the borough,
the deposit shall be used to cover the cost to make the restorations. The fees
for the said restorations are as follows:
 
                      Less Than 50 Square Yards More Than 50 Square Yards
Flexible base paving  $25/S.Y.                  $20/S.Y.
Other shoulders       $8/S.Y.                   $5/S.Y.
Paved shoulder        $18/S.Y.                  $13/S.Y.
Rigid concrete paving $40/S.Y.                  $30/S.Y.
 
      (2)   If the costs to the borough to make the restorations and/or
inspections exceed the amount on deposit, the applicant, upon written
notification by the borough, shall immediately reimburse the borough for the
costs incurred with the said inspections and/or restorations.
      (3)   If the applicant makes the said restorations, upon completion of
final restoration and receipt of written notification by the borough, the
borough shall within 45 days make a refund for the deposit portion of the cost
of the restorations’ guarantee to the applicant.
   (F)   Posting of financial security by public utilities.
      (1)   Public utility corporations operating within the borough shall have
on file with the borough a bond or other approved form of financial security
(“financial security”) in the amount of $5,000 each year, covering all openings
or excavations made or to be made in a calendar year, or shall furnish
financial security in the amount determined by the borough covering the
proposed openings or excavation set out in the application. Bonds shall have
either corporate surety or surety approved by the Borough Solicitor and shall
be conditioned to indemnify the borough in the event of any loss, liability or
damage that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence or
manner of guarding or constructing any such opening or excavation during the
term of said bond.
      (2)   Financial security shall be approved or disapproved by the Borough
Solicitor, the proper fee determined by a duly adopted resolution of the
Borough Council. The financial security shall then be filed with the Borough
Manager, or placed in an escrow account.
   (G)   Borough authorities exempt. Any municipality authority created by the
borough shall be exempt from the permit fees, general permit inspection fees,
additional inspection fees, temporary and permanent restoration fees and
financial security of public utilities as provided herein. Borough authorities,
however, are not exempted from obtaining a permit as provided for in §
94.30 through
94.41.
   (H)   Blasting financial security amounts. When blasting will be required, a
blasting financial security shall be provided in the following amounts:
 
Length of Trench or Opening Amount
Less than 500 feet          $50,000
500 to 1,000 feet           $75,000
1,000 to 2,000 feet         $150,000
Greater than 2,000 feet     $200,000
 
   (I)   Amendment of fee schedule. The fee schedule established in this
section may be amended from time to time by resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 6-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner, occupant or tenant who shall fail to remove any snow, ice,
hail or sleet from any sidewalk as required by §
94.02(A) shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than ten days; provided such fine and costs
of prosecution may be in addition to any expenses and additional amounts
authorized by law, imposed as provided in §
94.02(B). Each day during which snow, ice, hail or sleet is permitted to remain
upon any sidewalks in violation of the terms of §
94.02(A) shall constitute a separate offense punishable as such.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
94.03 shall be fined for each and every offense, fine or penalty of $50 to be
recovered in the name and for the use of the borough as debts of like amount
are now by law recoverable.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
94.30 through
94.41 shall upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before a
magisterial district justice be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000, together with costs of prosecution. The continuation of such violation
for each successive day shall constitute a separate offense, and the person or
persons allowing or permitting the continuation of a violation may be punished
as provided above for each separate offense.
(Ord. 151, passed 8-6-1900; Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-1-1971; Ord. 1-1984, passed
3-12-1984; Ord. 6-2022, passed 11-14-2022)
APPENDIX A: STANDARD DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1370.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1372.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1374.png]
(Ord. 1-1984, passed 3-12-1984)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CONTRACTORS
      
111.   RENTAL PROPERTY
      
112.   PEDDLERS
CHAPTER 110: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
110.01   Licensing
   
110.02   Exemptions from licensing requirements
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any (state) unlicensed contractor to conduct
business in the borough.
   (B)   Types of businesses subject to the licensing requirement shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: home remodeling; excavator;
foundation and footer concrete work; framer; plumber; electrician; heating
ventilation and air conditioning; insulator; drywall; concrete (flat work);
siding; gutter; trim; kitchen; well driller; septic installer; hardwood
flooring; tile; carpet; mirrors and shower doors; closet installer; roofer;
landscaping and seeding; blacktop; alarm system; painter; cleaning service;
garage doors; and general contractor employing or contracting any of the above.
(Ord. 5-2008, passed 2-25-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of obtaining a license as set forth in this chapter shall
not apply where the work is to be performed by the owner of a residential
property in which he or she resides.
(Ord. 5-2008, passed 2-25-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall
be ordered to pay a civil penalty of not more than $300 a day, plus costs of
the proceedings.
(Ord. 5-2008, passed 2-25-2008)
CHAPTER 111: RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
   
111.01   List provided
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LIST PROVIDED.
   Every owner of a rental dwelling unit or units shall be responsible to the
Secretary to certify to said office a list of all tenants and their addresses
on or before April 15 and November 15 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 9-11-1978) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Every owner of a rental dwelling unit or units who fails to submit the
heretofore required tenant lists shall upon conviction, in a summary
proceeding, be liable to a fine not exceeding $100 and in default of payment
thereof imprisonment not exceeding ten days.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 9-11-1978)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; conditions of issuance; fee
   
112.03   Exemptions
   
112.04   Restrictions of licensee
   
112.05   Application for license
   
112.06   Issuance of license; custody, display or exhibit
   
112.07   Prohibited acts
   
112.08   Hours of operation
   
112.09   Suspension and revocation of license; appeal
   
112.10   Nonliability of borough
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business, who goes from house to
house, from place to place, or from street to street, by any means, carrying or
transporting goods, wares, or merchandise and offering or exposing the same for
sale, or making sales and deliveries for purchase.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place, or
from street to street, soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for
any goods, wares, or merchandise, including but not limited to books,
periodicals, magazines, or personal property of any nature whatsoever for
future delivery, or services, including but not limited to lawn care, alarm
system service, energy services or suppliers, or cleaning services. A SOLICITOR
is not a PEDDLER.
   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS. Any business conducted in the borough for the
sale of goods, wares or merchandise whatsoever for a period of less than 90
calendar days. TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS includes peddlers and solicitors, and
any person engaged in transient retail business from a fixed location on
private property.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE; FEE.
   No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the borough
without first having obtained from the borough a license. For a for-profit
entity, there shall be a license fee paid in the amount of $50 per person, per
day or $150 per person per week of solicitation and/or peddling in the borough.
For a non-profit entity, there shall be a license fee paid in the amount of $25
per person per day or $75 per person per week of solicitation and/or peddling
in the borough. The license fee, which shall be for the use of the borough,
shall be charged and paid to the borough. Said fee amount may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the Borough Council. At the expiration of any
license, if the person holding the license shall desire to continue the
transient retail business, he or she shall be required to file a new
application for a license and pay the license fee then in effect.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No permit or fee is required as it applies under this section:
      (1)   To religious speech, political speech, and the distribution of
handbills, so long as the principal purpose of solicitation activities is the
expression of religious, political or other philosophical beliefs, as opposed
to the sale or distribution of goods and merchandise;
      (2)   For the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, donated by the
owners thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose;
      (3)   To children under the age of 18 years who take orders for and
deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products and the like, or who
represent the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts or similar organizations;
      (4)   To a person who has registered with the Department of State for the
Commonwealth under the provisions of the Solicitation of Funds for Charitable
Purposes Act, 10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented,
modified or re-enacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, or who is
expressly exempted from such registration under such Act;
      (5)   For taking orders for merchandise, by sample, from dealers or
merchants for individuals or companies who pay a license and business privilege
tax to the borough at their chief place of business; or
      (6)   To itinerant vendors and temporary vendors operating in the borough
with a permit pursuant to the other borough ordinances, rules or regulations.
   (B)   Any person claiming any exemption outlined above shall provide the
borough with documentation demonstrating that person qualifies for said
exemption.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.04 RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   No person, licensed under this chapter, shall park any vehicle upon
any of the streets or alleys of the borough in order to sort, rearrange or
clean any of his or her goods, wares or merchandise; nor may any such person
place or deposit any refuse upon any of such streets or alleys; nor may such
person maintain or keep a street or curbside marked by parking any vehicle upon
any street or alley in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
or distribute therefrom to persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   No person, licensed under this chapter, shall occupy any fixed
location upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, with or
without any stand or counter.
   (C)   Persons licensed under this chapter shall not solicit sales or other
businesses the addresses which are included on the “No Solicitation” list, a
copy of which will be provided to the licensee.
   (D)   Persons licensed under this chapter shall not solicit at any residence
or business which has a posted “No Solicitors” or “No Solicitation” sign.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person intending to engage in peddling or soliciting must first
obtain a license at least ten business days in advance of the beginning of the
time period for which the intended peddling or soliciting will occur. A person
desiring a license under this chapter shall first make application to the
borough for such license, and shall appear in person at the borough hall to
make the written application. If such person shall also be required to obtain a
license from any state or county officer, he or she shall, when making such
application, exhibit a valid license from such state or county officer.
   (B)   The applicant shall state to the borough the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s permanent address, social security number, telephone
number and cell phone number;
      (2)   Applicant’s criminal record, including whether he or she has ever
been convicted of a crime or municipal ordinance other than a summary traffic
violation, the location of the arrest; crime (s) for which there was a
conviction; type and length of sentence; and probation/parole status, and
consent to a background check for the same, with application to be denied for
convictions for violent felony offenses less than ten years prior to the date
of the application;
      (3)   The name and address of the person by whom he or she is employed
together with his or her supervisor’s or contact person’s name and telephone
number;
      (4)   The type of goods, wares, and merchandise he or she wishes to deal
with in such transient retail business;
      (5)   The location on private property where sales will be conducted, if
a fixed location is to be used. Compliance with all applicable zoning and
building code regulations is required;
      (6)   The length of time for which the license is to be issued;
      (7)   The type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any;
      (8)   Applicant shall produce a valid state driver’s license or other
state or government issued picture identification card; and
      (9)   Applicant shall produce a photo identification badge for his or her
employer.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CUSTODY, DISPLAY OR EXHIBIT.
   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee, the borough shall
issue the license required under this chapter if such license application is in
order. Such license shall contain the information required to be given on the
application. Every license holder shall carry such license upon his or her
person if engaged in transient retail business from house to house or upon any
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds. He or she shall exhibit such
license, upon request, to all police officers, municipal officials and citizens
or residents of the borough. The applicant’s employer’s photo identification
badge shall be visibly worn at all times. The license holder shall only be
entitled to carry said license for the length of time for which the license is
issued. When the time period for the license has expired, the license holder
shall apply for a new license and pay a new license fee then in effect.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person in any transient retail business shall:
   (A)   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his or her
license;
   (B)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public grounds in the borough;
   (C)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   Park any vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the borough for
the purpose of cleaning any goods, wares, or merchandise or of disposing of any
carton, wrapping material or of any stock or wares or food stuffs which have
become unsaleable through handling, age or otherwise;
   (E)   Enter or attempt to enter any dwelling without the invitation or
permission of the occupant and shall immediately leave any premises upon
request of the occupant;
   (F)   Permit any person to have possession of his or her license and shall
immediately report its loss to the Borough Manager; or
   (G)   No permittee shall make any untrue statements or misrepresentations in
the course of soliciting, or omit to state any material fact necessary to
prevent any statement made from being misleading. No permittee shall utilize
any unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the course of soliciting. In
determining whether or not a practice is unfair or deceptive under this
section, definitions, standards, or interpretations relating thereto under the
Pennsylvania Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection Law as amended from
time to time, shall apply (73 P.S. §§ 201-1 et seq.)
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Transient retail businesses may not engage in any business activity, except
by prior appointment with the owner of a property, at any time on a Sunday or
legal holiday; or at any time before 12:00 p.m. or after 7:00 p.m. on any other
day.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   The Borough Manager is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke any license
issued under this chapter when he or she deems such suspension or revocation to
be beneficial to the public health, safety, or morals, for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or if false information is given in any application
for a license hereunder. No part of a license fee shall be refunded to any
person whose license shall have been suspended or revoked. Any person whose
license is suspended or revoked shall immediately surrender his or her license
to the Borough Manager. If a company or other entity has more than one person
engaging in solicitation in the borough, and the permit issued to any one such
person is revoked, the permits for all solicitors working for that company may
be revoked.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.10 NONLIABILITY OF BOROUGH.
   All peddlers and solicitors, including nonprofit corporations and agencies,
shall hold harmless the borough from any liability, damage or injury which is
causally related to an act of negligence on the part of such peddler or
solicitor.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this chapter continues or each section of this chapter which shall
be found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MINOR CURFEW
      
131.   CONDUCT
CHAPTER 130: MINOR CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Purposes and findings
   
130.03   Definitions
   
130.04   Curfew for minors
   
130.05   Exceptions
   
130.06   Parental responsibility
   
130.07   Police procedures
   
130.08   Severability
   
130.09   Continuing evaluation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Topton Curfew Ordinance
of 2004”.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.02 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   This is an updating of the borough curfew ordinance of 1979 prescribing, in
accordance with prevailing constitutional and community standards, regulations
for the conduct of minors on streets and public places including the borough
parks and recreation areas at night, effectively enforced, for the benefit of
minors, for the furtherance of family responsibility, and for the public good,
safety and welfare.
   (A)   Council finds that the continuance and redefining of the curfew meets
a community need, has been over the years a significant factor in minimizing
juvenile delinquency and should be updated and amplified in the light of the
borough’s local situation including recent acts of vandalism and juvenile
defiance of authority. The borough has a park system, swimming pool and
recreation facilities for all ages. This community sense of the proper time for
cessation of outdoor activities by minors on the streets is reflected in the
curfew hours declared by this chapter, which takes into consideration also the
danger hours for nocturnal crime and for the gathering of minors with potential
risks incident to immaturity.
   (B)   Council finds that the borough has adequate facilities for lawful
recreation during non-curfew hours for all ages including juveniles.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular and words in the
singular number include the plural. The word “shall” is always mandatory and
not merely directory.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania, with
administrative offices at 205 South Callowhill Street, Topton, Pennsylvania.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, in equivalent phrasing herein
employed, any person 17 or less years of age.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   PARK. Borough owned property including all recreational facilities such as
the pool, the pavilion, the walking areas, the grass lands, shaded areas and
any other area owned by the borough and dedicated to public use.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
park land or other public places within the borough such as the pool area,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four
or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using the streets or
park land or other public places for transit purposes as in passage on the way
home. REMAIN does not include expressions of rights guaranteed in the
Constitution of the United States and the commonwealth.
   STREET.
      (1)   A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel.
      (2)   The term STREET includes the legal right-of-way, including, but not
limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether paved
or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found within the legal right
of way of a street.
      (3)   The term STREET applied irrespective of what it be called or
formally named, whether alley, avenue, court, road or otherwise.
   TIME OF NIGHT. Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern
Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at that hour
by the public in the borough, prima facie the time then observed in the borough
administrative offices and by the regional Police Department.
   YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 or less years of age if herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.04 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18) to be
or remain in or upon the streets and/or parklands or public facilities within
the borough at night during the period ending at 6:00 a.m. and beginning:
   (A)   At 10:00 p.m. for minors 11 or less years of age;
   (B)   At 10:30 p.m. for minors 12 or 13 years of age; and
   (C)   At 11:00 p.m. for minors 14 or more years of age.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the following exceptional cases a minor on a borough street, park
land or other public place or during the nocturnal hours for which §
130.04 is intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation (and a clear
general guide for minors, their parents and their fellow-citizens) shall not,
however be considered in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor
to take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated period
of time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution or the rights protected by the Pennsylvania Constitution,
such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the right of
assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such exercise by first
delivering, to the Borough Mayor, at the Borough Municipal Building at 205
South Callowhill Street, where and by whom high priority messages to the Mayor
are regularly received, a written communication, signed by such minor and
countersigned if practicable by a parent of such minor with their home address
and telephone number, addressed to the Mayor of the Borough, specifying when,
where and in what manner said minor will be on the streets, park lands or
public property at night (during hours when this chapter is otherwise
applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified
in such communication;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the Borough Mayor the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity relating to specified streets at a designated time for a described
purpose including points or origin and destination. A copy of such
communication, or of the policy record thereof, duly certified by the Borough
Mayor to be correct, with an appropriate notation of the time it was received
and of the names and address of such parent and minor, shall be admissible
evidence;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes
of the termination of a school activity, or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, of which prior notice, indicating the place and probable
time of termination, has been given in writing to, and duly filed for immediate
reference by, the Mayor, thus encouraging there as in other exceptional
situations) conduct on the part of minors involved in such activities and
striking a fair balance for any somewhat conflicting interests;
      (7)   (a)   When authorized, by special permit from the Mayor, carried on
the person of the minor thus authorized, as follows: when normal or necessary
nighttime activities of a minor may be inadequately provided for by other
provisions of this chapter, then recourse may be had to the Mayor of the
borough, either for a regulation as provided in division (A)(8) below or for a
special permit as the circumstances warrant.
         (b)   Upon the Mayor’s finding of necessity for the use of the streets
to the extent warranted by a written application, signed by a minor and by a
parent of such minor if feasible stating:
            1.   The name, age and address of such minor;
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of a parent thereof;
            3.   The height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other
physical characteristics of such minor;
            4.   The necessity which requires such minor to remain upon the
streets during the curfew hours otherwise applicable; and
            5.   The street or route and the beginning and ending of the period
of time involved by date and hour, the Mayor may grant a permit in writing for
the use by such minor of such streets at such hours as in the Mayor’s opinion
may reasonably be necessary.
         (c)   In an emergency this may be handled by telephone, or other
effective communication, with a corresponding record being made
contemporaneously, either to the Mayor or it unavailable to the Police Chief
authorized by the Mayor to act on his or her behalf in an emergency
      (8)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Mayor, in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to normal
or necessary night-time activities of more minors than can readily be dealt
with on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the
Mayor permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than 30
minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity, and the reason for
finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with the
public interest and the purposes of this chapter;
      (9)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, renewable
each calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated or re-issued not
more than 45 days previously, signed by the Mayor and briefly identifying the
minor, the addresses of his or her home and of his or her place of employment,
and his or her hours of employment; and
      (10)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. From excess of caution, this clearly exempts bona
fide interstate movement through the borough. This also exempts interstate
travel beginning or ending in the borough.
   (B)   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations such
as provisions for notification, is severable.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.06 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a minor knowingly
to permit or by inefficient control to allow, such minor to be or remain upon
any borough street under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or
otherwise beyond the scope of, this chapter. The term KNOWINGLY includes
knowledge, which a parent should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s legal custody. It is intended to
continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall, a
fortiori, be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 POLICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A police officer of the regional police force, upon finding or having
attention called to any minor on the streets in prima facie violation of this
chapter, normally shall take the minor to the police station, where a parent
shall immediately be notified to come for such minor. This is intended to
permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and
to centralize responsibility in the officer in charge there and then on duty
for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and
recording, thus making available experienced supervisory personnel, the best of
facilities and access to information and records.
   (B)   In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a
police officer on the street shall in the first instance use his or her best
judgment in determining age.
      (1)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide, inter alia, that the police officer may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances, for example a minor
of tender age near home whose identity and address may readily be ascertained
or are known.
      (2)   In any event such police officer shall within 24 hours file a
written report with the Chief of Police, or shall participate to the extent of
the information for which he or she is responsible in the preparation by
himself or herself and the officer in charge involved in such case, and in the
filing, of such report within 24 hours.
      (3)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will on
behalf of a parent assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
      (4)   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Chief of Police
shall by certified mail, send to a parent written notice of said violation with
a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this
chapter, including enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable
penalties.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.08 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of
this chapter. If any provision, including inter alia any exception, part,
phrase or term, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the application to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby and the validity of the chapter in any and all other respects
shall not be affected thereby. From excess of caution, the Mayor is authorized
to give advisory opinions, in writing or immediately reduced to writing, which
shall be binding, and shall be adhered to by the police, until the chapter is
amended in such respect, interpreting terms, phrases, parts or any provisions.
      (2)   Normally such advisory opinions shall be in response to good faith,
signed letters addressed to him or her at the borough administration building,
questioning as:
         (a)   Ambiguous;
         (b)   As having a potentially chilling effect on constitutional rights
specifically invoked; or
         (c)   As otherwise invalid, in all three categories with respect to
proposed conduct definitely described.
   (B)   This administrative remedy must be exhausted prior to presenting to
any court a question in any of said three categories. Borough Council does not
intend a result that is absurd, impossible of execution or unreasonable. It is
intended that this chapter be held inapplicable in such cases, if any, where
its application would be unconstitutional. A constitutional construction is
intended and shall be given. Council does not intend to violate the
Constitution of the commonwealth or the Constitution of the United States of
America.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.09 CONTINUING EVALUATION.
   Borough Council will continue its evaluation and updating of this chapter.
   (A)   Accordingly, there shall be compiled and informally reported to
Borough Council through effective channels (such as the normal monthly
distribution by the Borough Manager and Borough Secretary, to each Council
member, the Mayor and the Borough Solicitor of noteworthy material) all
exceptional cases hereunder of reasonable necessity, the notices of school and
other activities, the Mayor’s special permits and the Mayor’s regulations
hereinbefore authorized, and the Mayor’s advisory opinions, for consideration
by the appropriate committee and by Borough Council in further updating and
continuing evaluation of this chapter.
   (B)   For the same reasons, as well as for the implementation beyond these
legal aspects of the basic purposes hereof, the Mayor and relevant committees
of Borough Council through their respective chairpersons in coordinated efforts
shall work with existing, and may organize voluntary groups, and shall
stimulate volunteer leadership, in programs dealing constructively with
juvenile delinquency, and the prevention, control or containment thereof, and
with the working of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Prevailing community standards as to when minors should be off the streets,
reflected in this chapter, are hereby undergirded with the following legal
sanctions.
   (A)   If, after the warning notice pursuant to §
130.07 of a first violation by a minor, a parent violates §
130.06 (in connection with a second violation by said minor), this shall be
treated as a first offense by the parent. For such first parental offense a
parent shall be fined $250 and for each subsequent offense by a parent the fine
shall be increased by an additional $25, e.g., $275 for the second, $300 for
the third offense. The district justice, upon finding a parent guilty, shall
sentence the parent to pay such fine and the costs of prosecution, and upon
refusal to pay such fine and costs to be imprisoned in the jail of the county
for a period not exceeding ten days.
   (B)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter more
than three times shall be reported by the Mayor to a society or organization
whose purpose it is to take charge of incorrigibles and delinquents and
proceedings shall then be taken, under the Juvenile Act, before the juvenile
court for the treatment, supervision and rehabilitation of such minor.
   (C)   A like procedure, before the juvenile authorities, shall be followed
in any case where the imposing of a fine or fines upon a parent shall not be
effective, or where for any other reason the provisions of this chapter cannot
be made effective by the imposing of penalties under this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 9-13-2004)
CHAPTER 131: CONDUCT
Section
   
131.01   Prohibited conduct
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, company or corporation:
   (A)   To willfully make or cause to be made, or, being the owner of any
premises or having control thereof, to permit within or on said premises, any
loud, boisterous or unseemly noise or disturbances, or to be guilty of
vagrancy, or to engage in fighting or to incite others to fight, assault or
quarrel, or to incite to riot, or to engage in any other unlawful act tending
to imperil the personal security of any person or persons within the borough to
the annoyance of the peaceable residents nearby, or near any alley, street,
bridge, public passageway or public place whereby the public peace is broken or
disturbed or the public is annoyed or offended;
   (B)   To use publicly profane, blasphemous or indecent language, to commit
open lewdness or any act of public indecency, make any indecent exposure of the
person, to be found in a state of intoxication or drunkenness, to be gathered
in disorderly assemblies on the streets or in drinking places;
   (C)   To loaf, loiter or stand upon any of the sidewalks or other public
highways or public places, so as to willfully and unnecessarily interfere or
obstruct the free and full passage of residents, travelers or other persons;
   (D)   To throw, place, discard or be a party to throwing, placing or
discarding of any garbage, rubbish, paper, refuse or litter of any kind on,
upon, or adjacent to any street, road, alley, sidewalk, public place, or lot or
piece of ground, within the borough;
   (E)   To raise any false alarm of fire;
   (F)   To willfully or wantonly destroy, deface or injure in any way, any
public or private property within the borough;
   (G)   To publicly insult, harass or heckle a peace officer in such a manner
as to interfere with the performance of his or her duties;
   (H)   To imperil or endanger the personal safety or security of any person
or persons within the borough; and
   (I)   To cause any unnecessary and disturbing noise by motor vehicle,
including, but not limited to, the squealing of tires, back-firing, blowing of
a horn and racing of a motor, to the annoyance of the peaceable residents
nearby, or within or near to any alley, street, bridge, public passageway or
public place whereby the public peace is broken or disturbed or the public is
annoyed or offended.
(Ord. 367, passed 5-1-1967) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof before any justice of the peace within the borough, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, and costs of
prosecution, to be collected in the manner in which fines and penalties are by
law collectible, and, in default of the payment of said fine and costs, to be
imprisoned in the county jail for a period not exceeding 30 days,
(Ord. 367, passed 5-1-1967; Ord. 6-1970, passed 10-5-1970)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Permit fees
   
150.002   House numbering
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.015   Borough Property Maintenance Code
   
150.016   Definitions
Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code
   
150.030   Electing to administer and enforce
Plumbing Code
   
150.045   Short title
   
150.046   Application and effective date
   
150.047   Material amendments
   
150.048   Other amendments and changes
   
150.049   Administration and application
   
150.050   Conflicts
   
150.051   Building traps
   
150.052   Water conservation
Abandoned Real Property
   
150.110   Purpose and intent
   
150.111   Definitions
   
150.112   Applicability
   
150.113   Establishment of a registry
   
150.114   Registration
   
150.115   Maintenance requirements
   
150.116   Security requirements
   
150.117   Public nuisance
   
150.118   Inspections for violations
   
150.119   Additional authority
   
150.120   Opposing, obstructing enforcement officer; penalty
   
150.121   Immunity of enforcement officer
   
150.122   Amendments
Residential Sprinkler Systems
   
150.135   Sprinkler systems
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.150   Investigation and examination
   
150.151   Report of findings
   
150.152   Definition
   
150.153   Service of notice
   
150.154   Borough action
 
   
150.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A
: Appendices 1 and 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PERMIT FEES.
   All permit fees for building, construction and repairs of same shall be by
resolution of Council adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 5-2002, passed 12-30-2002)
§ 150.002 HOUSE NUMBERING.
   (A)   The survey, plan and system for the numbering of houses and buildings
prepared by the Borough Engineer, under date of October, 1936, a copy of which
is hereto attached and made part hereof as if set out in full herein, is hereby
approved and adopted.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, trustee, lessee, agent
and occupant of each and every house, building or structure in the borough to
cause the same to be numbered in accordance with this section, and the system
and plan hereby adopted and approved.
   (C)   The numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous place on or over each
front door, on the front transom bar, on the front transom glass or front show
window, over or on either side of the entrance, the said number to be of paint,
metal or enamel and at least three inches in height, the color of the number to
be in contrast to the immediate background, and shall be so placed as to be in
full view from the opposite side of the street. It shall be unlawful to cover
any house number with any sign, drapery or other obstruction tending to conceal
such number and all old numbers shall be removed from any house, building or
other structure when a new number has been assigned, and when so directed by
the Borough Engineer or Secretary of Council.
   (D)   The Borough Engineer or Secretary of Council, or either of them, is
hereby authorized to require numbering and re-numbering of any house, building
or other structure in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Main Street, north of Franklin, and Home Avenue, south of Franklin
Street, shall be the dividing line between east and west; and Franklin Street
shall be the dividing line between north and south. The initial point in
numbering houses on streets extending north and south shall be Franklin Street
and the initial point in numbering houses on streets running east and west
shall be Main Street north of Franklin Street and Home Avenue, south of
Franklin Street. From the initial point the numbers shall be run consecutively
block by block, each block being in the next one hundred, the first block,
however, beginning at number “one”. All even numbers shall be on the south and
west sides of the streets. The numbers in short or immediate streets shall be
numbered uniformly with the main streets [can’t read word] them whether they
begin at the initial point or not.
   (F)   The adoption of this section shall in [can’t read word] be construed
as a dedication or placing upon the topographical survey of the borough of any
street, highway or alley which is not now duly ordained as such by the
corporate authorities.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1936) Penalty, see §
150.999
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.015 BOROUGH PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of 2018 IPMC. The International Property Maintenance Code
(International Code Council, 2018 Edition), is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the borough, for regulating and governing the conditions
and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; for providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; for the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use, and for the demolition of such existing structures as
herein provided; for providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor; and for each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code on file in the borough
office, and hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this section. Three copies of the aforementioned Property Maintenance
Code, together with this section, shall be kept on file with the Borough
Secretary in the borough office.
   (B)   Modification of IPMC. The IPMC shall be modified as follows.
      (1)   Section 101.1 (Title) - Insert “Borough of Topton”.
      (2)   Section 103.5 (Fees) - Insert - “Fees assessable by the Borough for
the administration and enforcement undertaken pursuant to this Property
Maintenance Code shall be established by Resolution of Borough Council, and may
be revised by Resolution of Borough Council from time to time.”
      (3)   Section 106 - Section 106, entitled “Violations,” shall be amended
and restated in its entirety as follows:
         Section 106.1. Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Property Maintenance Code.
         Section 106.2. Notice of Violation and Violation Tickets. Any
violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be cause for the issuance
by the Code Official of a Violation Ticket or a Notice of Violation. A
Violation Ticket shall be issued for those acts and/or omissions deemed to be
“Quality of Life” violations as defined herein, and a Notice of Violation shall
be issued for all other violations of the Property Maintenance Code.
         Section 106.3. Service of Notices of Violation, Orders, and Violation
Tickets. The Code Official shall serve Notices of Violation, Orders, and
Violation Tickets in the manner set forth in Section 107.3 of the Property
Maintenance Code.
         Section 106.4. Prosecution of Violation. Any person failing to comply
with or timely appeal a Notice of Violation or Order served in accordance with
Section 107.3 of this Property Maintenance Code, or to pay the full amount or
timely appeal a Violation Ticket served in accordance with Section 107.3 of
this Property Maintenance Code, shall be deemed guilty of a summary offense or
civil infraction as determined by the Borough, and the violation shall be
deemed a summary offense. If the Notice of Violation, Violation Ticket, or
Order issued under this Property Maintenance Code is not complied with, the
Code Official shall institute an appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this Property Maintenance Code or of the Order or direction made
pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the Borough or third party acting on
behalf of the Borough shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon said real estate, subject to the
filing of a municipal claim and lien and the procedures of the Municipal Claims
and Tax Liens Law.
         Section 106.5. Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate a
provision of this Property Maintenance Code, or fail to comply therewith, or
with any of the requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits set
forth in the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the prosecution of
Summary Offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, and as set
forth herein and as may be amended from time to time. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
         Section 106.6. Abatement of Violation. The penalties herein shall be
cumulative with any and all other penalties and remedies available under
applicable law. The imposition of penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the Borough from instituting appropriate legal action to restrain,
correct or abate a violation, to prevent illegal occupancy of a building,
structure, or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business, or
utilization of the building, structure, or premises.
      (4)   Section 107 - Section 107, entitled “Notices and Orders,” shall be
amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
         Section 107.1. Notice to Person Responsible. Whenever the Code
Official determines that there has been a violation of this Property
Maintenance Code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred,
notice shall be given for a Notice of Violation and/or Order in the manner
described in Sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the person responsible for the
violation as specified in this Property Maintenance Code. In the event that the
Code Official determines that there has been a violation of this Property
Maintenance Code in the form of a “Quality of Life” violation, notice shall be
given for a Violation Ticket in the manner prescribed in Section 107.4 herein.
Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with Section 108.3.
         Section 107.2. Form. Such Notice or Violation Ticket prescribed in
Section 107.1 shall be in a form approved by Borough Council, and shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
            1.   Be in writing.
            2.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
            3.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
Notice or Violation Ticket is being issued.
            4.   Include a correction order setting forth the time in which to
remediate the condition(s) or make the repair(s) or improvement(s) required to
bring the property, dwelling unit, or structure into compliance with provisions
of this Property Maintenance Code.
            5.   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal.
            6.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with Section 106.4.
         Section 107.3. Method of Service - Notice of Violation. A Notice of
Violation shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
            1.   Delivered personally;
            2.   Sent certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
            3.   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
         Section 107.4. Method of Service - Violation Ticket. A Violation
Ticket shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
            1.   Handed to the violator.
            2.   At the residence of the person to be served, handed to an
adult member of the household or other person in charge of the residence.
            3.   Left or affixed to a public and visible portion of the
property where the violation exists.
            4.   At any office or usual place of business of the violator
handed, to his/her agent or to the person for the time being in charge thereof.
            5.   Mailed to the violator’s address of record by first class U.S.
Mail, postage prepaid or certified mail.
         Section 107.5. Unauthorized Tampering. Signs, tags, or seals posted or
affixed by the Code Official shall not be mutilated, destroyed, or tampered
with, or removed without authorization of the Code Official.
         Section 107.6. Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with Violation
Tickets, Orders, and Notices shall be as set forth in Sections 106.4, 106.5,
and 106.6 of this Ordinance.
         Section 107.7. Transfer of Ownership. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or
upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage,
lease, or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until
the provisions of the compliance Order, Violation Ticket or Notice of Violation
have been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of any Violation Ticket,
compliance Order, or Notice of Violation issued by the Code Official and shall
furnish to the Code Official a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such Violation
Ticket, Notice of Violation, or compliance Order, and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by such Violation Ticket, compliance Order, or Notice of Violation.
      (5)   Section 112.4 (Stop Work Order - Failure to Comply)- Insert “a fine
or penalty of not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), together with
fees and costs incurred by the Borough in prosecution.”
      (6)   Chapter 1 of the PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, titled “Scope and
Administration,” shall be amended to add as Section 113 the following:
SECTION 113
ENFORCEMENT OF QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATIONS
      Section 113.1 Quality of Life Violations. Violations of the following
Sections of the IPMC, and this PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ORDINANCE, shall be
deemed to be QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATIONS as defined herein, to be enforced in
the manner set forth in this Section 113:
            1.   Section 302.3.1 - Failure to Remove Ice and Snow from
Sidewalks.
            2.   Section 302.4 -Weeds or Grass and Plant Growth in Excess of
Ten Inches (10").
            3.   Section 302.8 - Storing, Parking or Placing of More Than One
Unregistered and/or Unlicensed Motor Vehicle on any PREMISES.
            4.   Section 302.9 - Defacement of Property.
            5.   Section 302.10 - Outdoor Placement of Appliances and INDOOR
FURNITURE.
            6.   Section 308.1 - Permitting Accumulation of Rubbish or Garbage.
            7.   Section 308.3 - Improper Disposal of RUBBISH or GARBAGE and
dumping of RUBBISH or GARBAGE on any PRIVATE PROPERTY or PREMISES.
            8.   Section 308.4 - Illegal Dumping, Hauling, Littering or
Scattering of RUBBISH or GARBAGE.
         Section 113.2. Enforcement.
            1.   The provisions of this Section shall be enforced by the CODE
OFFICIAL authorized to enforce this Ordinance by BOROUGH COUNCIL.
            2.   Any violation of the provisions of this Section may be cause
for a citation, a VIOLATION TICKET, and/or a notice of violation to be issued
to the violator.
         Section 113.3 Authority for Issuance of Quality of Life Violation
Ticket. Upon finding a QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION, the CODE OFFICIAL may issue
one or more QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKETS to the owner and/or occupant of
property at issue or to the individual(s) known to have violated this Section.
         Section 113.4. Separate Offense. Each day a QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION
continues or is permitted to continue may constitute a separate offense for
which a separate fine may be imposed.
         Section 113.5. Abatement of Violation.
            1.   Any person or business violating this Section 113 is hereby
directed to satisfy the Borough of Topton and its citizens, upon issuance of a
QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET, by correcting the violation in question. The
CODE OFFICIAL is authorized and empowered to cause a violation to be corrected.
The cost shall be determined by the CODE OFFICIAL in order that the Borough
shall be compensated for both direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred.
            2.   The BOROUGH and/or its contractor, per the direction of the
BOROUGH COUNCIL, reserves the right to abate the violation in question at the
expense of the owner. If the BOROUGH has affected the abatement of the
violation, the cost thereof may be charged to the owner of the property,
tenant, or offending party. A bill/invoice will be generated to the violator
for payment separate from the QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET, which will also
be paid separately.
            3.   In all instances where the BOROUGH abates the violation, in
addition to the fine set forth in the QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET, the
BOROUGH is authorized to recover from the offending party, the owner of the
property, or tenant the abatement charges and such other charges established by
the CODE OFFICIAL and the rules and regulations.
            4.   The BOROUGH reserves the right to perform any necessary work
to abate any violation once seventy-two (72) hours passes from the date of
issuance of the QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET, and once twenty four (24)
hours passes from the date of issuance of a QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET
for failure to remove ice and/or snow from a sidewalk. Should the violation at
the discretion of the CODE OFFICIAL present imminent danger and/or pose a
health hazard and/or risk, the BOROUGH reserves the right to perform the
abatement immediately. The BOROUGH will perform this work at a rate of Sixty
Dollars and 00/100 ($60.00) per hour, per laborer, and forward the cost of any
material necessary for the abatement, or as set forth in the Fee Schedule
adopted annually by Resolution of BOROUGH COUNCIL. The BOROUGH reserves the
right to charge an additional twenty (20%) percent on all material purchases to
cover all miscellaneous expenses, such as wear and tear on equipment.
            5.   Contractor Cleanup. The BOROUGH reserves the right to direct a
contractor to perform the abatement of the violation in question once seventy-
two (72) hours passes from the date of issuance of the quality of life ticket.
Should the violation present imminent danger and/or pose a health hazard and/or
risk, the BOROUGH reserves the right to direct the contractor to perform the
abatement immediately. The contractor will submit a bill for their work to the
BOROUGH and the BOROUGH will forward these costs to the violator. The BOROUGH
reserves the right to add a thirty (30%) percent processing fee in addition to
the cost of the contractor.
         Section 113.6. Fines and Penalties.
            1.   Warning Notice. If the CODE OFFICIAL believes that a property
has one or more QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATIONS, and the property has had no such
violations or warning notices given within a twelve (12) month period, the CODE
OFFICIAL shall issue a written warning notice, which may be served by: handing
to the owner, occupant, or other adult individual appearing to be in charge of
the property in person, posting on the front door of the property, or mailing
to the owner of record of the property by certified and first class mail. The
warning notice shall state the Ordinance Section(s) in which is violation is
suspected, and afford the owner of the property three (3) calendar days from
the date of receipt of the warning notice to remove or abate the condition,
with the exception of ice and snow removal, which must take place within twenty
four (24) hours of receipt of the notice. The notice shall state that any and
all future violations will be subject to citation under the Borough Property
Maintenance Code and Quality of Life Ordinance.
            2.   First Offense. For the first QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET
within a 12-month period, violation tickets shall be issued in the amount of
Twenty Five Dollars and 00/100 ($25.00).
            3.   Second Offense. For the second QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION
TICKET within a 12-month period, violation tickets shall be issued in the
amount of Fifty Dollars and 00/100 ($50.00).
            4.   Third Offense. For the third QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET
within a 12-month period, violation tickets shall be issued in the amount of
One Hundred Dollars and 00/100 ($100.00).
            5.   Cumulative Fines for Subsequent Offenses. For subsequent
offenses beyond the third offense within a 12-month period, amounts of
violation tickets shall increase by $150.00, cumulative for each subsequent
offense. For example, a resident receives a ticket for failing to remove ice
from his sidewalk in January and pays $25.00. He receives a second ticket for
the same offense in February, and pays $50.00. In May, he is cited for failing
to clean up after his dog, and pays a fine of $100.00. In August, he has failed
to mow the lawn and cut weeds on his property for several weeks, and receives a
ticket for $250.00. If he is cited in September for having a disassembled
vehicle on his property, his fine increases to $400.00, and when cited again in
December for not shoveling his sidewalk after a snowfall, his fine increases to
$550.00.
            6.   Remediation Required. Any persons who receive QUALITY OF LIFE
VIOLATION TICKET for any violation of this Part may, within ten (10) days,
admit the violation, waive a hearing, and pay the fine. The violation, however,
must fully be remediated, or the person(s) will be cited for a subsequent
offense.
            7.   Determination of “Twelve (12) Month Period”. The twelve (12)
month period for purposes of determining the level of penalty and amount of
fine is counted from the date of the last conviction for or payment of a fine
for Quality of Life Violation.
            8.   Costs of Remediation and Abatement. Any persons who violate
this Section shall pay a fine as set forth herein for each offense, plus all
direct and indirect costs incurred by the Borough for the clean-up and
abatement of the violation.
         Section 113.7. Violation Ticket Penalties.
            1.   Penalties for Late Response.
               a.   If the Person in receipt of a Twenty Five Dollar and 00/100
($25.00) violation ticket does not pay the fine or request a hearing within ten
(10) days of issuance, the person will be subject to a penalty of Ten Dollars
and 00/100 ($10.00) for days eleven (11) through thirty (30) per ticket.
               b.   If the Person in receipt of a Fifty Dollar and 00/100
($50.00) violation ticket does not pay the fine or request a hearing within ten
(10) days, the person will be subject to a Twenty Five Dollar and 00/100
($25.00) penalty for days eleven (11) through thirty (30) per ticket.
               c.   If the person in receipt of a One Hundred Dollar ($100.00),
or higher violation ticket does not pay the fine or request a hearing within
ten (10) days, the person will be subject to a Fifty Dollar ($50.00) penalty
for days eleven (11) through thirty (30) per ticket.
            2.   Citation for Failure to Respond. Failure of the person to make
payment or request a hearing within thirty (30) days of a violation ticket
shall make the person subject to a citation for failure to pay.
            3.   Continuous Violations. If violations are continuous, the CODE
OFFICIAL has the right to issue citations without first issuing tickets,
provided notice has been given. Upon issuance of four (4) tickets for the same
violation, right is reserved for the CODE OFFICIAL to issue a citation for the
fifth and subsequent offenses.
            4.   Citation Fines. Any person, firm or corporation who shall
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the terms or provisions of this
Ordinance, or of any regulation or requirement pursuant hereto and authorized
hereby shall, upon conviction, be ordered to pay a fine not less than One
Hundred ($100) Dollars, not more than One Thousand ($1,000) Dollars on each
offense or imprisoned no more than ninety (90) days, or both.
         Section 113.8. Appeal to Quality of Life Appeals Officer. A person in
receipt of a Quality of Life Violation Ticket may either:
            a)   Pay the fine indicated to the address stated on the “Quality
of Life Violation Ticket” within ten (10) calendar days of receipt; or
            b)   Appeal to the Quality of Life Appeals Officer by filing a
request in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the violation
ticket. All paperwork, including the appropriate appeal form for the appeal,
must be submitted and complete within ten (10) calendar days from the date the
Quality of Life Violation Ticket was issued. Payment of the fine must be in
full, which will be refunded within thirty (30) calendar days should the
alleged violator be successful in his/her appeal. The appeal hearing will be
held before the Quality of Life Appeals Officer and he/she may uphold the
appeal, deny the appeal, or may modify the violation ticket, and/or any
associated costs, fines or penalty amounts as he/she sees appropriate. In the
event that the appeal is denied, or the individual in receipt of the ticket
disagrees with the modification, the individual may appeal the ticket to the
Magisterial District Court having jurisdiction in the Borough, pursuant to the
Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure for Summary Offenses within thirty
(30) days of the date of the decision of the Quality of Life Appeals Officer,
in the manner stated on the Quality of Life Violation Ticket.
         Section 113.9. Collections. At the discretion of the BOROUGH COUNCIL,
all tickets for which payment is not received within forty-five (45) days of
issuance of a ticket for which an appeal is not taken, and forty-five (45) days
from denial of appeal and monies paid by the BOROUGH for abatement of a
violation not paid within forty-five (45) days of billing, may be turned over
by the BOROUGH to a collection agency for receipt. All costs of collection
shall be charged to the violator, in addition to fines and penalties levied
herein.
         Section 113.10 . Liens. At the discretion of the BOROUGH, liens may be
placed upon a property against which QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET(S) were
issued for which payment is not received within forty-five (45) days of
issuance of a QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET for which an appeal is not
taken, and forty-five (45) days from denial of appeal and monies paid by the
BOROUGH for abatement of a violation and not paid within forty-five (45) days
of billing. All costs incurred in the filing of the lien(s), including
attorneys’ fees and court costs, shall be charged to the violator, in addition
to fines and penalties levied herein.
      (7)   Add to Chapter 3, (“General Requirements”), Section 302.3
(“Sidewalks and Driveways”) as Section 302.3.1 the following:
         302.3.1. Removal of Snow and Ice from Sidewalks. The owner, occupant
or tenant of every property fronting upon or alongside of any of the streets or
other public ways in the borough is hereby required to remove or cause to be
removed from all of the sidewalks in front of or alongside of such property all
snow, ice, hail or sleet thereon fallen or formed, to a minimum width of 48
inches, within 24 hours after the same shall have ceased to fall or to form. In
the absence of a sidewalk, the owner, occupant or tenant of the property
fronting along any street or public way shall clear a path on a grass plot or
surface adjacent to the street or public way. No such snow, ice, hail or sleet
removed as herein provided shall be deposited in or on any street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or public way used for public travel. The owner of a property shall
be responsible for conforming to the requirements of this section where such
property is occupied by such owner or is unoccupied; the tenant or occupier
thereof, where such property is occupied by such tenant or occupier only; and
the owner thereof where the property is a multiple-business or multiple-
dwelling property, occupied by more than one tenant or occupier.
      (8)   Section 302.4 (Weeds) - insert “ten inches (10")”
      (9)   Section 302.8, titled “Motor Vehicles,” shall be amended and
restated in its entirety as follows:
         Motor Vehicles. Except as provided for in other laws, ordinances, or
regulations, not more than one (1) currently unregistered, uninspected, and/or
unlicensed and/or inoperable MOTOR VEHICLE shall be parked, kept, or stored on
the exterior of any PREMISES, and no MOTOR VEHICLE shall at any time be kept or
stored on the exterior of any PREMISES in a state of visible disassembly,
disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled when not being
actively worked upon. Any such vehicle shall be covered when not being actively
worked upon with a vehicle cover. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless
conducted inside an approved spray booth. The sole exception to this
prohibition is for commercial or industrial properties licensed for operations
involving salvaged vehicles, or vehicle storage, repair, or restoration.
      (10)   Add as Section 302.10 the following:
         Outdoor Placement of Appliances and INDOOR FURNITURE. It is prohibited
to store or place indoor-use appliances (including but not limited to: ranges,
refrigerators, air conditioners, ovens, washing machines, clothes dryers,
microwave ovens, or dishwashers) or INDOOR FURNITURE on the exterior of any
property for the purpose of sale or any other reason, except for the temporary
purpose of performing maintenance. Refrigerators, washing machines, clothes
dryers, dishwashers, ovens, and ranges, and other similar appliances, may be
placed on the exterior of a property for no more than twelve (12) hours to
await disposal in accordance with applicable law, but must have doors removed
and any refrigerant removed and disposed of in accordance with applicable law.
If additional time is needed to await proper disposal, property owner shall
inform the CODE OFFICIAL in writing of the reason for the need for additional
time, and the CODE OFFICIAL shall have authorization to grant or deny such
requests.
      (11)   Add to Section 308 (“Rubbish and Garbage”), Section 308.3
(“Disposal of Garbage”) as Section 308.3.3 the following:
         Section 308.3.3. Failure to Provide Appropriate Storage Containers for
Waste, Trash, Junk, and Recyclables, and Improper Storage of Containers for
Waste, Trash, Junk, and Recyclables. The owner of every premises shall be
responsible for the removal of RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, JUNK and RECYCLABLES
from the property, and no property owner shall permit the accumulation of said
materials on the exterior of the property outside of covered storage
containers, which must be removed from the exterior property when filled to
capacity and the materials lawfully disposed of. All containers that store
RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, JUNK, and RECYCLABLES. shall be of durable
construction, water tight, and be kept clean and sanitary, and have tight-
fitting covers. Such containers may only be placed in front of any property the
night before the day of a scheduled pickup day, and removed within twenty four
(24) hours from the public right-of-way.
      (12)   Add as Section 308.4 the following:
         Section 308.4. Littering, Illegal Dumping and Illegal Hauling. It
shall be the responsibility of every owner and/or occupant to dispose of
RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, JUNK and/or RECYCLABLES in the manner set forth in
applicable laws and ordinances, as follows:
            1.   All PERSONS or entities must lawfully dispose of and remove
from their properties all WASTE, TRASH, GARBAGE, JUNK, AND/OR RECYCLABLES and
shall not allow an accumulation of such materials on properties which they own
or occupy.
            2.   Should any PERSON or entity use a hauler not licensed by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to dispose of RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, and
RECYCLABLES or have RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, and RECYCLABLE removed in a manner
which violates this or other applicable laws and/or Ordinances, said PERSON or
entity shall be in violation of this Ordinance.
            3.   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Ordinance, for
any PERSON or entity to remove or haul RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, JUNK, and/or
RECYCLABLES without required Commonwealth licensure and all other licenses or
certifications mandated by applicable law. This section shall not apply to an
owner or occupant of property removing such materials from the property for
lawful disposal or recycling.
            4.   No person shall dump, place, sweep, or dispose of any WASTE,
GARBAGE, JUNK, RUBBISH, and/or RECYCLABLES upon any PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY, public
sidewalk, alley, street, bridge, public passageway, public parking area, or any
other public property.
            5.   The disposal of RUBBISH, WASTE, GARBAGE, JUNK, and/or
RECYCLABLES not in accordance with this Ordinance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this Ordinance.
      (13)   In Chapter 6 (“Mechanical and Electrical Requirements”) Section
602.3 (“Heat Supply”) - Insert “October 1 to June 1.”
      (14)   In Section 602.4 (Occupiable Work Spaces”) - “October 1 to May 1.”
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 4-2014, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 03-2021,
passed 4-12-2021; Ord. 08-2021, passed 10-11-2021; Ord. 1-2023, passed 1-9-
2023)
§ 150.016 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions in IPMC. All of the definitions contained in the IPMC,
2018 Edition, Chapter 2, entitled “Definitions” are hereby incorporated by
reference as though set forth herein at length.
   (B)   Amendment of Property Maintenance Code to add definitions. The IPMC
2018 Chapter 2, Section 202, entitled “General Definitions” is amended to add
the following words, terms, and phrases:
      (1)   “BOROUGH” - The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
      (2)   “BOROUGH COUNCIL” - The governing body of the BOROUGH.
      (3)   “DUMPING” - conduct which includes, but is not limited to,
depositing of LITTER, depositing large or small appliances or other durable
goods, furniture, INDOOR FURNITURE, carpeting, tires, MOTOR VEHICLES, MOTOR
VEHICLE parts, automotive products, MUNICIPAL WASTE, HAZARDOUS WASTE, JUNK, and
construction or demolition debris on public or private property, except as
authorized by law.
      (4)   “GRAFFITI” - any unlawful inscription, word, figure, painting, or
other defacement that is written, marked, scratched, drawn, painted, or
engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private property
to the extent not authorized in advance by the owner or individual allowed to
give such permission with respect to that property.
      (5)   “INDOOR FURNITURE” - any and all pieces of furniture which are made
only for interior household or commercial use.
      (6)   “JUNK”- any discarded material or article, including but not
limited to: scrap metal, scrapped, abandoned, or junked MOTOR VEHICLES,
furniture, MOTOR VEHICLE parts, machinery, machinery parts, equipment, paper,
glass, containers, and abandoned, dilapidated or partially dismantled
structures. It shall also include, as defined further herein, a fully or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or vehicle not bearing current registration,
inspection, or license plates and which is not in the process of immediate
repair or restoration. It shall not, however, include refuse or garbage kept in
a proper container for the purpose of prompt disposal in accordance with
applicable laws and ordinances.
      (7)   “MOTOR VEHICLE” - any type of mechanical device, capable or at one
time capable of being propelled by a motor, in which persons or property may be
transported upon public streets or highways, and including trailers or
semitrailers pulled thereby.
      (8)   “NOTICE OF VIOLATION” - a written document issued to a person
alleged to be in violation of a BOROUGH Ordinance.
      (9)   “NUISANCE” - any condition, structure, or improvement which
constitutes a danger or potential danger to the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the BOROUGH or persons on or near a property, or causes a
blighting effect in neighborhoods. See also, “PUBLIC NUISANCE.”
      (10)   “PRIVATE PROPERTY” - any land, and the improvements thereon, owned
by any PERSON, whether inhabited, temporarily inhabited, continuously
uninhabited, or vacant, and including front, side, and rear yards; vacant lots;
buildings and other structural improvements; walkways and alleyways; parking
areas; walkways; driveways; porches; steps; vestibules; mailboxes or other
items or features belonging to or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, land,
building, or other structure.
      (11)   “PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE” - The International Property
Maintenance Code (International Code Council, 2009 Edition).
      (12)   “PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ORDINANCE” - This Borough Ordinance No.
03-2021, containing the PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, and BOROUGH modifications
thereto.
      (13)   “PUBLIC NUISANCE” - any condition or premises which are unsafe or
unsanitary and present a hazard to the health, safety, and/or welfare of
Borough residents, or PERSONS on or near the property on which the unsafe or
unsanitary condition exists.
      (14)   “QUALITY OF LIFE APPEALS OFFICER” - Individual appointed by
BOROUGH COUNCIL to hear appeals from QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKETS.
      (15)   “QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATIONS” - Violations of the following
Sections of this PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, as amended by this PROPERTY
MAINTENANCE CODE ORDINANCE, which have been deemed by BOROUGH COUNCIL to be a
PUBLIC NUISANCE and an immediate threat to the health, safety, welfare, and
morals of BOROUGH citizens:
         A.   Section 302.3.1 - Failure to Remove Ice and Snow from Sidewalks.
         B.   Section 302.4 - Weeds or Grass and Plant Growth in Excess of Ten
Inches (10").
         C.   Section 302.8 - Storing, Parking or Placing of More Than One
Unregistered and/or Unlicensed Motor Vehicle on any PREMISES.
         D.   Section 302.9 - Defacement of Property.
         E.   Section 302.10 - Outdoor Placement of Appliances and INDOOR
FURNITURE.
         F.   Section 308.1 - Permitting Accumulation of Rubbish or Garbage.
         G.   Section 308.3 - Improper Disposal of RUBBISH or GARBAGE and
dumping of RUBBISH or GARBAGE on any PRIVATE PROPERTY or PREMISES.
         H.   Section 308.4 - Illegal Dumping, Hauling, Littering or Scattering
of RUBBISH or GARBAGE.
      (16)   “RECYCLABLE MATERIAL” - material which would otherwise become
“WASTE,” which can be collected, separated, or processed, and returned to the
economic mainstream in the form of raw materials or products. These materials
may include, but not be limited to, aluminum cans, ferrous and bi-metallic
cans, glass containers, plastic containers, newspaper, and mixed paper.
      (17)   “SIDEWALK AREA” - the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY between the property
line and the curb line or the established edge of the roadway.
      (18)   “STORAGE”- the containment of any WASTE on a temporary basis in
such a manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste. It shall be presumed
that the containment of any WASTE in excess of fourteen (14) days constitutes
disposal.
      (19)   “VEGETATION” - any planting that is cultivated and managed for
edible or ornamental purposes such as trees, fruit or vegetable plants or
gardens, flowers or flower gardens, shrubs, and hedges.
      (20)   “VIOLATION TICKET” or “QUALITY OF LIFE VIOLATION TICKET” - a form
issued by the authorized CODE OFFICIAL to a person alleged to be in violation
of this Ordinance.
      (21)   WASTE” - any garbage, refuse, industrial, commercial, or office
waste, and other material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial, or institutional establishments or from community activities
      (22)   “WEEDS” - shall be defined as plant matter which is not VEGETATION
as defined above, and/or meets the following criteria:
         A.   Exceeds ten inches (10") in height.
         B.   Disseminates noxious odors, pollen, or seeds, including but not
limited to ragweed, dandelion, and other plant matter commonly considered
“weeds” or “brush.”
         C.   Is not cultivated, planted, or managed for esthetic purposes or
for use as food.
         D.   May conceal animal waste or LITTER or other filthy deposits, or
serve as a breeding or harborage grounds for mosquitos, insects, vermin, or
other pests.
         E.   Conceals or creates other hazards to public health or safety, or
otherwise may create a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 5-12-2014; Ord. 03-2021, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. 08-2021,
passed 10-11-2021)
PENNSYLVANIA UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.030 ELECTING TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE.
   (A)   The borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401
through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the municipal Building Code of the borough.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the Code within the borough shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the governing body of
the borough from time to time by resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the borough to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of the borough;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or
third party agencies to act on behalf of the borough;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an intermunicipal agreement;
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of the borough; and
      (5)   By entering into an agreement with the State Department of Labor
and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures other
than one-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use structures.
   (D)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the governing
body of the borough in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein. If at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
   (E)   (1)   All Building Code ordinances or portions or ordinances which
were adopted by the borough on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this section and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the Code.
      (3)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of the borough
not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Fees assessable by the borough for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this subchapter and the Code shall be established by the
governing body by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 6-14-2004)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.045 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Borough of
Topton Plumbing Code of 1998”.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.046 APPLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Borough Council the International Plumbing
Code, including Appendix and Chapters, 1997 Edition, as published by the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., and the
International Conference of Building Officials, and any amendments thereto,
together with any future revisions and supplements thereto made and the said
Code is hereby adopted, referred to and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in the subchapter, except as modified or amended specifically hereinafter in §
150.047; and from the date on which this subchapter shall take effect the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the borough;
provided, however, that the regulations of the commonwealth for protection from
fire and panic and all other pertinent regulations of the Department of Labor
and Industry of the commonwealth shall take precedence where applicable and
further provided that §§
150.150 through
150.154 (Dangerous Structures) takes precedence where applicable.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.047 MATERIAL AMENDMENTS.
   The International Plumbing Code is a performance code and by reference will
immediately adopt the latest standards for any new material, or type of
assembly which meets the required standards of strength, stability and fire
resistance.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.048 OTHER AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   Section/title and references are to those of the International Plumbing
Code, 1997 Edition.
Section/Title Nature of Amendment or Changes Made Amended to Read
Section/Title Nature of Amendment or Changes Made                                               Amended to Read
101.1 Title   Name of Jurisdiction                                                              Borough of Topton, Berks County, PA.
101.2 Scope   Add to paragraph                                                                  Add at end of paragraph: Whenever a dangerous structure proceeding is initiated,
                                                                                                the Dangerous Structures Ordinance shall take precedence over the Plumbing Code.
103
Department of Eliminate “heading”
Plumbing
Inspections
103.1 General Delete this section                                                               Substitute: Plumbing Inspection.
103.2         Delete “Code Official” and everything after words “chief appointing authoritSubstitute: Plumbing Inspector in every instance where words “Code Official” are
              the jurisdiction”                                                               used.
103.3 Deputy  Eliminate “code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code      Substitute: Borough Council shall appoint and substitute the word “assistant”
              official, other related technical officers, inspectors, and other employees”    for “deputy”.
103.4                                                                                           Add the following prior to the opening line: “Unless approved by Borough
Restrictions  Amend section                                                                     Council”.
of Employees
103.5         This section is deleted
Liability
104.2 Rule
Making        Deletion and addition                                                             Delete “code official” and substitute “Borough Council of Topton”.
Authority
                                                                                                End of first paragraph, add the following: Building Inspector shall also have
104.5 Right   Additions to subsection                                                           the right of entry at the first suspected illegal discharge, such as from floor
of Entry                                                                                        drain, sump pump, or any system or combination of systems which mixes ground
                                                                                                water and/or stormwater with the sanitary sewer system.
104.7 Notices                                                                                   Add to section: Plumbing Inspector has the right to issue stop work orders and
and Orders    Addition to section                                                               cease and desist orders which shall be posted on the premises and removed by the
                                                                                                Plumbing Inspector upon correction of any violation.
104.8
Department of Delete this section
Records
105.1         Delete part of sentence                                                           Delete words at end of paragraph, “in the files of the Plumbing Inspection
                                                                                                Department”.
106.4 Permit  Addition to subsection                                                            Add at end of paragraph: The person who receives the permit shall prosecute the
Issuance                                                                                        work with diligence and complete in a timely fashion.
106.4.5                                                                                         Add at end of paragraph: In addition to revoking a permit, the Plumbing
Suspension or Add to section                                                                    Inspector also has the right to issue a stop work order and/or a cease and
revocation of                                                                                   desist order as well as revoke any certificates or approvals given for
permit                                                                                          occupation of the Premises.
106.5.2 Fee   Delete [jurisdiction to insert appropriate schedule]                              Insert: Fee schedule shall be as determined by the Borough Council of Topton
schedule                                                                                        from time to time by resolution of the Council.
106.5.3 Fee   Delete this section
refunds
108.4         Delete [specify offense] Delete punishable by a fine of not more than [amount]    Substitute for deleted material: Summary offense, punishable by a fine of not
Violation     dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding [number of days] or both such fine and   less than $100.00 or more than $1,000.00.
penalties     imprisonment.
108.5 Stop    Delete [amount]                                                                   Substitute: Shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than
work orders                                                                                     $1,000.00.
                                                                                                Replace existing Section 109 with following: Interpretation - Any request for
109 Means of  Delete each and every section and subsection of Section 109.                      interpretation of the Plumbing Inspector’s interpretation, rulings and the like
appeal                                                                                          shall be taken before the Borough Council of the Borough of Topton under the
                                                                                                procedure set forth in the Local Agency Law.
301.6
Prohibited    Delete entire subsection
locations
305.6         Add sentence to end of paragraph                                                  Add to end of paragraph: Water service pipe shall be installed not less than
Freezing                                                                                        thirty-six (36") inches deep.
305.6.1 Sewer                                                                                   First sentence reads as follows: Building sewer that connect to private sewage
Depth         Add number to fill in blank                                                       disposal system shall be a minimum of thirty-six (36") inches below finished
                                                                                                grade.
309                                                                                             Substitute the following: Any work in the floodplain shall be governed by the
Floodproofing Delete entire section and subsections                                             Floodplain Ordinance of the Borough of Topton, approved by the Federal Emergency
                                                                                                Management Agency.
                                                                                                Since the Borough does not license plumbers, to work as a plumber in Topton, a
313 Licensing Add section                                                                       current minimum Journeyman’s license shall be produced from the Borough of
of Plumbers                                                                                     Kutztown, City of Reading, City of Allentown, or any municipality with a
                                                                                                comparable test of plumbing knowledge and skills.
603.2                                                                                           Water service pipe and the building sewer shall be separated by ten (10') feet
Separation of                                                                                   of undisturbed or compacted earth. The required separation distance shall not
Water and     Amended to read as follows                                                        apply where the bottom of the water service pipe within ten (10') of the sewer
Building                                                                                        is a minimum of 18" above the top of the highest point of the sewer.
Sewer/Drain
703.1
Building                                                                                        Paragraph is amended to read: Where the building sewer is installed within ten
Sewer Pipe    Amendment                                                                         (10') of the water service, as provided for in Section 603.2, the building sewer
Near Water                                                                                      pipe shall conform to the standards listed in Table 702.3.
Service
703.2                                                                                           Paragraph is amended to read: Where building sewer or building drain is
Drainage Pipe Amendment                                                                         installed or filled on unstable ground, the drainage pipe shall conform to the
in Filled                                                                                       standards listed in Table 702.3.
Ground
                                                                                                Section 8 of Ord. 329 - Prohibited Wastes remains in force and effect and any
712.5                                                                                           provisions in Section 712 and subsections thereof which are contrary to Section
Ordinance 329 Add paragraph                                                                     8 of Ord. 329 are deleted and any interpretation of Section 712 and subsections
                                                                                                thereof which contradicts any section or provision of Section 8 of Ord. 329 is
                                                                                                null and void.
801.1 Scope   Add to paragraph                                                                  Section 8 of Ord. 329 - Prohibited Wastes remains in force and effect and no
                                                                                                part of Chapter 8 Indirect/Special Waste shall be interpreted to the contrary.
904.1 Roof    Amendment                                                                         First paragraph is amended to read: All open vent pipes that extend through a
Extensions                                                                                      roof shall be terminated at least 12" above the roof.
1002.6                                                                                          Paragraph is amended by changing the first sentence, as follows: Building
Building      Amendment                                                                         (house) traps shall be installed in all building sewers. The last sentence is
Traps                                                                                           amended to read: Such relief vent or fresh air intake shall be carried above
                                                                                                grade and terminated with an adjustable box and mushroom cap.
1101.2 Where                                                                                    The first sentence is amended to read as follows: All roofs, paved areas, yards,
Required      Amendment                                                                         courts and courtyards shall drain into a separate storm sewer system or an
                                                                                                approved place of disposal.
1104.2
Combining                                                                                       The first sentence of Section 1104.2 Combining Storm with Sanitary Drainage is
Storm with    Amendment                                                                         amended to read, as follows: The sanitary and storm drainage systems of a
Sanitary                                                                                        structure shall be entirely separate.
Drainage
1108 Combined
Sanitary and  Deleted                                                                           Section 1108 Combined Sanitary and Storm System is deleted.
Storm System
1111.2                                                                                          This section shall be amended to include the word “storm” to describe the
Building Sub- Amendment                                                                         drainage system.
Drains
 
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.049 ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICATION.
   Whenever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL, or any variation thereof is used in
the Code, it shall be held to mean the Solicitor of the borough.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.050 CONFLICTS.
   Whenever there is difference between the minimum requirement specified in
this subchapter or any other standard included in any other ordinance, law or
regulation of the borough, the more stringent requirement shall apply.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 150.051 BUILDING TRAPS.
   [missing material]
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 150.052 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   General policy. No water shall be provided for internal or external
use to any residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational,
governmental or public building or structure of any kind which is constructed
or remodeled and in which plumbing, water piping or water fixtures are to be
installed, extended or altered in any way, and for which construction a permit
is required to be obtained from the borough (or would be required but for an
exemption from a permit requirement for public or governmental agencies) unless
the new, extended or altered plumbing, water piping and other water using
fixtures therein conform to the requirements and standards of division (B)
below. The provisions of this section shall apply to any such building or
structure for which such a building permit is issued, or would otherwise be
required to be issued but for such an exemption, or after April 13, 1992.
   (B)   Water conservation performance standards for plumbing fixtures and
fittings.
      (1)   Article 1 - Water closets and associated flushing mechanisms. The
water consumption of water closets shall not exceed an average of 1.6 gallons
per flush cycle over a range of test pressures from 20 to 80 psi. The fixture
shall perform in accordance with the test requirements of the ANSI A112.19.2M
and ANSI A112.19.6M.
      (2)   Article 2 - Urinals and associated flushing mechanisms. Urinal
water consumption shall not exceed an average of 1.5 gallons per flush cycle
over a range of test pressures from 20 to 80 psi. The fixtures shall perform in
accordance with the test requirements of ANSI A112.19.2M and ANSI A112.19.6M.
      (3)   Article 3 - Showerheads. Showerhead discharge rates shall not
exceed 3.0 gallons of water per minute over a range of test pressures from 20
to 80 psi. The fixture shall perform in accordance with the test requirements
of ANSI A112.18.1M.
      (4)   Article 4 - Faucets. Sink and lavatory faucet discharge rates shall
not exceed 3.0 gallons of water per minute over a range of test pressures from
20 to 80 psi. The fixture shall perform in accordance with the test
requirements of ANSI A112.18.1M.
   (C)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Article 1 - Special purpose equipment. The performance standards of
division (B) above shall not apply to fixtures and fittings such as emergency
showers, aspirator faucets and blowout fixtures that, in order to perform a
specialized function, cannot meet the specified standards.
      (2)   Article 2 - Exemptions. Any person(s) may apply to the borough for
an exemption to the terms of this section, which may be granted by Council,
upon proof that some other device, system or procedure will save as much or
more water as those set forth herein, or that those set forth herein cannot be
complied with, without undue hardship.
   (D)   Official review and modification. The Council may, from time to time,
modify, add to or remove from the standards and restriction herein.
(Ord. 3-1992, passed 4-13-1992) Penalty, see §
150.999
ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY
§ 150.110 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the borough to establish a process to
address the deterioration and blight of the borough neighborhoods caused by an
increasing amount of abandoned, foreclosed or distressed real property located
within the borough, and to identify, regulate, limit and reduce the number of
abandoned properties located within the borough. It is the borough’s further
intent to establish a registration program as a mechanism to protect
neighborhoods from becoming blighted due to the lack of adequate maintenance
and security of abandoned and foreclosed properties.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY. Any real property located in the borough whether
vacant or occupied, that is in default on a mortgage, has had a lis pendens
filed against it by the lender holding a mortgage on the property, is subject
to an ongoing foreclosure action by the lender, is subject to an application
for tax deed or pending tax assessor’s lien sale, or has been transferred to
the lender under a deed in lieu of foreclosure. The designation of a property
as “abandoned” shall remain in place until such time as the property is sold or
transferred to a new owner, the foreclosure action has been withdrawn or
dismissed, and any default on the mortgage has been cured. ABANDONED PROPERTY
shall also include any and all real estate located in the borough which remains
uninhabited for a consecutive period in excess of 90 days.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Includes, but not be limited to, the borough zoning
ordinance (as codified in Chapter 154), quality of life ordinance, Property
Maintenance Code (§§ 150.015 and 150.016) and the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code (UCC) (§
150.030), including, but not limited to, the UCC International Building Code
and International Fire Code.
   BLIGHTED PROPERTY. Any real property that has broken or severely damaged
windows, doors, walls or roofs which create a hazardous condition and encourage
trespassing; or any real property whose maintenance is not in conformance with
the maintenance of other neighboring properties causing a decrease in value of
neighboring properties; or any real property cited for a public nuisance
pursuant to applicable codes; or any real property that endangers the public’s
health, safety or welfare due to the dilapidation or deterioration of such
property, or any real property, the condition of which has violated minimum
health and safety standards or lacks maintenance as required by applicable
codes.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer, Building Code Official,
Zoning Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Inspector or Building
Inspector, or other person authorized by the borough to enforce the applicable
code(s).
   OWNER. Any person, legal entity or other party having ownership interest
whether legal or equitable, in real property. This term shall also apply to any
person, legal entity or agent responsible for the construction, maintenance or
operation of the property involved.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE COMPANY. A local property manager, property maintenance
company or similar entity responsible for the maintenance of abandoned real
property.
   VACANT PROPERTY. Any building or structure that is not legally occupied and
has been unoccupied for a period in excess of 90 consecutive days.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.112 APPLICABILITY.
   The sections of this subchapter shall be considered cumulative and not
superseding or subject to any other law or provision for same, but rather be an
additional remedy available to the borough above any other state, county or
local provisions for the same.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.113 ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGISTRY.
   The borough shall establish a registry cataloging each abandoned real
property within the borough containing the information in this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.114 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration is required of the following properties:
      (1)   Any property in default of the mortgage, for the period of time the
mortgage remains in default;
      (2)   Any property subject to foreclosure sale; and
      (3)   This section shall also apply to property which is currently
unoccupied and remains unoccupied for a period in excess of 90 consecutive
days, unless the owner has contracted with a responsible person or entity to
maintain the property.
   (B)   Registration shall include the property address, date of registration,
person registering the property, identification of the real party in interest
of the property, the amount and value of all liens and mortgages, and whether
the property is occupied or not. The registration must include the name and
contact information of a representative who will be responsible to accept
service of notice of violation and police citation for any action identified
under this subchapter and under any ordinance of the borough. Registration must
be completed in a form as approved by the borough which may from time to time
be amended. Initial registration shall be in the amount of $100, and following
passage of this subchapter, the Borough Council of the borough may amend the
fee by resolution as from time to time deemed necessary.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.115 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices except those required by
federal, state or local law, discarded personal items including furniture,
clothing, large and small appliances, printed material or any other items that
give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar markings
by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches the color
of exterior structure.
   (C)   Front, side and rear yards, including landscaping, shall be maintained
in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the time registration was
required.
   (D)   Yard maintenance shall include, but not limited to grass, ground
covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential installation.
Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or landscape shall not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar material.
   (E)   Maintenance shall include, but not limited to, watering, irrigation,
cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and removal of all
trimmings, and removal of snow and ice from sidewalks.
   (F)   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   (G)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or owner to properly maintain property
may result in a violation of applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or
notice of violation in accordance the applicable code(s) of the borough.
Pursuant to a finding and determination by the Borough Codes Enforcement
Officer, magistrate or a court of competent jurisdiction, the borough may take
necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
   (H)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the borough.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.116 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   (1)   A SECURED MANNER shall include, but not limited to, the closure
and locking and/or repair of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such
size that may allow a child to access the interior of any improvements on the
property.
      (2)   Broken windows shall be secured by replacement or re-glazing of the
window.
   (C)   If a mortgage on a property is in default and the property has become
vacant or abandoned, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee to
perform the work necessary to bring property into compliance with applicable
code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections to verify
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, and any other applicable
laws.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.117 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All abandoned real property is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, the
abatement of which pursuant to the police power is hereby declared to be
necessary for the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the borough.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.118 INSPECTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Adherence to this subchapter does not relieve any person, legal entity or
agent from any other obligations set forth in any applicable code(s), which may
apply to the property.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.119 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   If the Codes Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this subchapter is posing a serious threat to
public health, safety and welfare, the Codes Enforcement Officer may
temporarily secure the property at the expense of mortgagee and/or and may
bring the violations before the magistrate as soon as possible to address the
conditions of the property.
   (B)   The Codes Enforcement Officer or magistrate shall have the authority
to require the mortgagee and/or owner of record any property affected by this
section, to implement additional maintenance and/or security measures
including, but not limited to, securing any and all doors, windows or other
openings, employment of an on-site security guard or other measures as may be
reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the property.
   (C)   If there is finding that the condition of the property is posing
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and then the Codes
Enforcement Officer or magistrate may direct the borough to abate violations
and charge the mortgagee with the cost of the abatement.
   (D)   If the mortgagee does not reimburse the borough for the cost of
temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed by the Codes
Enforcement Officer or magistrate, within 30 days of when the borough sent the
mortgagee the invoice, then the borough may lien the property with such cost,
along with any charges for administrative personnel services, and reasonable
attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.120 OPPOSING, OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; PENALTY.
   Whoever opposes obstructs or resists any Codes Enforcement Officer or any
person authorized by the enforcement office in the discharge of duties as
provided by this chapter shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code
(s) or a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.121 IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any Codes Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the borough to
enforce sections herein shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
§ 150.122 AMENDMENTS.
   Registration and penalty fees outlined in this subchapter may be modified by
a resolution, passed and adopted by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
RESIDENTIAL SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
§ 150.135 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   If a new one-family or two-family residential dwelling is constructed
with a sprinkler system, said sprinkler system shall be in compliance with this
section, IRC §§ R313.2 and P2904, which are hereby incorporated by reference as
if set out in full herein and made a part hereof.
   (B)   The system must be designed to comply with § P2904 of the 2009 IRC,
or, in the alternative, designed to comply with National Fire Protection
Association (“NFPA”) § 13D. The applicant must, however, comply with all
standards and specifications of the publication selected by the applicant.
   (C)   Regardless of the publication selected, no residential sprinkler
system installation may utilize any antifreeze solution or additive to water.
   (D)   If the applicant utilizes the prescriptive design requirements of §
P2904 of the 2009 IRC, there is no requirement that a design professional be
involved in the design of the sprinkler system. In the event that the applicant
opts to utilize NFPA 13D, the sprinkler system must be designed by a fire
protection design professional or a designer certified by the National
Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET).
   (E)   The design of the sprinkler system must be submitted with building
plans at the time of application for a building permit.
      (1)   The components of system design which must be submitted for review
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Design calculations;
         (b)   Water supply piping materials;
         (c)   Sizing of components;
         (d)   Appliances;
         (e)   Valves;
         (f)   Backflow prevention devices along with sprinkler heads being
used with manufacturers’ cuts on coverages and flow rates; and
         (g)   Location of sprinkler heads.
      (2)   The plan shall contain all of the information and details set forth
in the document titled “Residential Sprinklers,” which is attached hereto,
incorporated herein, and labeled
Appendix “1”.
      (3)   If an application is submitted without this information, and
without other required construction documents, the application will be rejected
as incomplete and will be denied and returned to the applicant.
   (F)   All residential sprinkler systems shall be connected to the public
water supply system. The applicant shall comply with the relevant water
connection detail drawings, which are attached hereto, incorporated herein, and
labeled
Appendix “2”.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-13-2011) Penalty, see §
150.999
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.150 INVESTIGATION AND EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be reported to or come to the attention of the
Borough Manager and/or Secretary that any structure, completed or in process of
construction, or any portion thereof, is in a dangerous condition, the Borough
Manager and/or Secretary shall immediately cause an investigation and
examination to be made of such structure. If such investigation or examination
indicates such structure to be dangerous in any respect, the Manager and/or
Secretary shall notify in writing the Mayor, specifying the exact condition of
such structure, setting forth in such report whether and in what respect he or
she considers such structure to be dangerous and/or unsafe, and, if so whether
such structure is capable of being properly repaired or whether it should be
removed as a dangerous structure.
   (B)   Upon receiving the report from the Borough Manager and/or Secretary,
the Mayor may make a similar investigation and examination.
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 150.151 REPORT OF FINDINGS.
   After the investigation has been completed, the Mayor and/or Borough Manager
and/or Secretary shall report the findings of their investigation and
examination to the next regular or special meeting of the Borough Council
requesting a hearing upon ten days’ notice to the property owner which notice
shall set forth the results of the investigation by the Borough Secretary/
Manager and Mayor. Thereafter a hearing shall be held by the Borough Council
upon advertisement thereof and notice to the property owners. At the conclusion
of the hearing before Council, the Borough Council shall determine by
resolution whether the structure is a dangerous one in accordance with the
definition as set forth in this subchapter, and/or as set forth in 8 Pa.C.S. §
1202(4) thereof. If the Borough Council determines by resolution that the
structure is dangerous, the Borough Manager and/or Secretary shall forthwith
cause written notice to be served upon the owner of such structure. Such notice
shall require the owner of such structure to commence the repair or the removal
of such structure within ten days of receipt of said notice to complete such
repair or removal within 30 days; provided, however, that in any case where the
notice prescribes the repair of any structure, the owner thereof shall have the
option to remove such structure instead of making the repairs thereto, within
the said time limit.
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 150.152 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS CONDITION. Any building or structure which is unsafe for life,
limb and/or health and/or offensive to the public health, safety and/or morals
structurally unsafe and dangerous, unsanitary, or deficient in adequate exitway
facilities, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to
human life or the public welfare, or which by reason of illegal or improper
use, occupancy or maintenance, shall be deemed unsafe buildings or structures
and/or beyond repair and/or beyond repair.
   (B)   All references in the within this subchapter in the singular and in
particular all references to “owner of property”, “property owner”, “property
owner’s”, “owner”, and other similar terms shall also be deemed to refer to the
plural as may be applicable,
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 150.153 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice required by §
150.151 shall be served upon the owner of the structure, either personally or
by certified or registered mail at the last known address and the premises
shall be posted with the said notice.
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 150.154 BOROUGH ACTION.
   If the owner of any dangerous structure, to whom or which a resolution of
Council to repair or to remove such structure shall be sent under the
provisions of this subchapter, fails to commence or to complete such repair or
removal within the time limit prescribed by such notice, the Mayor and/or
Borough Manager/Secretary shall be empowered to cause such work of repair or
removal to be commenced and/or completed by the borough, and the cost and
expense thereof, with a penalty of 10% shall be collected from the owner of
such structure in the manner provided by law; provided, the recovery of such
cost and expenses, together with the penalty, may be in addition to the penalty
imposed as provided in §
150.999(F)(1).
(Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons from a corporation who shall number or attempt
to number any house or building contrary to §
150.002 and the plan hereby approved and adopted, or who shall fail or neglect
to number their house or buildings in accordance herewith, or who shall fail to
change the number thereof on notification of the Borough Engineer or Secretary
of Council, and any person or persons who shall alter, deface, remove or
destroy any number required to be displayed by §
150.002 shall, upon conviction, pay a fine of not less than $5 and not more
than $25.
   (C)   Any person, corporation, partnership or entity of any type violating
and of the provisions of §
150.052 shall be subject for each violation to a penalty of not less than $200
nor more than $600 to be imposed and collected in a manner provided by the
Borough Code in the case of violations of borough ordinances.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
150.110 through
150.122 may be cited and fined. Following is a list of violations of §§
150.110 through
150.122 which may be enforced pursuant to the provisions of §§
150.110 through
150.122. The dollar amount of civil penalty for the violation of these sections
as it may be amended. The descriptions of violations below are for
informational purposes only and not meant to limit or define the nature of
violations or the subject matter of applicable codes, except to the extent that
different violations of the applicable codes may carry different civil
penalties. For each code section listed in the schedule of civil penalties, the
entirety of the section may be enforced by the mechanism provided in this
division (E), regardless of whether all activities prescribed or required are
described in the “Description of Violation” column. To determine whether a
particular activity is prescribed or required by §§
150.110 through
150.122, the relevant Borough Code section(s) shall be examined.
 
Description of Violation                                          Civil Penalty
Each consecutive 90-day period without registration is a new
violation of the registration requirement subject to an           $500
additional penalty
Each occurrence when the referenced property is cited for a
separate and distinct violation of the applicable codes shall
result in not only the penalty for such violation as prescribed
by the applicable codes, but in addition, in the event the        $500
property is abandoned real property, whether or not the abandoned
real property is registered, there shall be an additional penalty
assessed based on the fact that the property in question is an
abandoned real property
Failure to register abandoned real property                       $500
 
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalties set forth above, penalties shall
include the costs of title search, court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees.
   (E)   (1)   After resolution by Council, if the owner of any dangerous
structure, to whom or which a resolution of Council requiring repair or removal
of such structure shall be sent under the provisions of §§
150.150 through
150.154, fails to commence or to complete such repair or removal within the
time limit prescribed by such resolution, he or she shall be guilty of a
violation of §§
150.150 through
150.154, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $300 and costs of prosecution; provided, each day’s continuance of a
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to any other remedy available to the borough, the
borough to enforce or seek a judicial determination may seek relief by an
action in equity as provided in the Borough Code.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1936; Ord. 1-1981, passed 8-24-1981; Ord. 3-1992, passed
4-13-1992; Ord. 3-2016, passed 10-10-2016)
APPENDIX A: APPENDICES 1 AND 2
APPENDIX 1: RESIDENTIAL SPRINKLERS
Required Information on the Plans
   • Site location
   • Static water pressure at the water supply
   • Description of water service line, including pipe material and diameter
   • Location and size of the water meter
   • Hydraulic calculations
   • Scaled drawings
   • Type of pipe material used for sprinklers
   • Details about each type of sprinkler used, including manufacturer, model
number, temperature rating, K factor and manufacturer’s spacing requirements
Sprinkler Plan Details
   • A block identifying the pipe material, total number of sprinklers and
static pressure at water supply.
   • Detail illustrating the bracing and mounting methods for each type of
sprinkler
   • Riser details
   • Identification of remote sprinkler which is the hydraulically most remote
on the plans
   • Dimension lines for plan review to document the correct distances were
used in the calculations
   • Floor plan showing all exterior and interior walls so the sprinkler
coverage can be reviewed
Manufacturer Information
All relevant manufacturers’ information should be submitted along with the
plans and calculations
• Data sheets for sprinklers, pipe and fittings to confirm the items are listed
for residential sprinklers.
• Manufacturer’s instructions to include installation instructions such as
spacing, support, bracing and related information needed to install the items
in compliance with the IRC §§ P2904 or NFPA 13D.
Required Inspections
   • Pre-concealment inspection
   • Final inspection
   • Flow test (bucket test)
APPENDIX 2: WATER CONNECTION DETAIL DRAWINGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1376.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1378.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7cc7552178babaaf8d08842b6095a9646b6d6c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1380.png]
 
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
General Provisions
   
151.015   Intent
   
151.016   Applicability
   
151.017   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.018   Severability
   
151.019   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.030   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.031   Permits required
   
151.032   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.033   Application procedures and requirements
   
151.034   Review of application by others
   
151.035   Changes
   
151.036   Placards
   
151.037   Start of construction
   
151.038   Enforcement
   
151.039   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
151.050   Identification
   
151.051   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
151.052   Changes in identification of area
   
151.053   Boundary disputes
Technical Provisions
   
151.065   General
   
151.066   Elevation and floodplain requirements
   
151.067   Design and construction standards
   
151.068   Development which may endanger human life
   
151.069   Special requirements for subdivisions
   
151.070   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
151.071   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Prohibited Activities
   
151.085   General
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
151.100   Existing structures
   
151.101   Improvements
Variances
   
151.115   General
   
151.116   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
151.130   General
   
151.131   Specific definitions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the commonwealth has, by the passage of the
Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act of 1978, being 32 P.S. § 679.101,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain
management regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare
of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the Borough Council does hereby enact and ordain as
follows.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.015 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.016 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within any identified floodplain or floodway area as shown
on the FIRM in the borough unless a permit has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. For all other construction or development, the owner
shall procure a certification from the Floodplain Administrator that the
construction or development proposed is not in an identified floodplain or
floodway area.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.018 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.019 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.030 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Borough Engineer is hereby appointed to administer and enforce this
chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator. Borough
Council may, in lieu of appointment of the Borough Engineer as the Floodplain
Administrator, appoint by resolution any individual that it believes possesses
necessary qualifications as the Floodplain Administrator at its discretion. The
services of the Borough Engineer or designee shall be subject to fees and
charges as set forth in a fee schedule to be adopted and amended by resolution
of Borough Council.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.031 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit or certification from the Floodplain Administrator, as set forth in
§
151.016 shall be required before any construction or development is undertaken
within any area of the borough.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.032 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
The issuance of a permit under this chapter shall not serve as evidence of
compliance with other applicable codes and ordinances to the construction or
development in question.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended), being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 to 750.20; the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as amended), being 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 to 693.27;
the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended), being 35 P.S. §§
691.1 to 691.1001; and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No
permit shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order and report such fact
to the Borough Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated
with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2006 IBC and the 2006 IRC or later revisions thereof as
adopted by the commonwealth.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.033 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the borough.
      (2)   Such application shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction
is to occur;
         (c)   Name and address of contractor;
         (d)   Site location including address;
         (e)   Listing of other permits required;
         (f)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including
a breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before
the flood damage occurred where appropriate if the project is for the purpose
of remediation of flood-related damage; and
         (g)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If the proposed construction or development is not within an
identified floodplain or floodway area, then the Floodplain Administrator shall
certify the same. If, however, any proposed construction or development is
located entirely or partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants
for permits shall provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail
and clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and/or located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other access
ways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2006 IBC or the 2006 IRC, or subsequent code adopted by the commonwealth.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within a special floodplain area (see § 151.051(D)) when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point;
         (d)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood.
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (e)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
151.067(F) and 151.068, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
151.067(F) and 151.068 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or
otherwise maintained on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
151.068 during a base flood.
         (f)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (g)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.034 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Borough Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.035 CHANGES.
   (A)   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Requests for any such change shall be in writing, and shall be
submitted by the applicant to Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.036 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.037 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction and/or development shall begin
within 180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12
months after the date of issuance of the permit, or the permit shall expire
unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. Construction and/or development shall be considered to have
started with the preparation of land, land clearing, grading, filling,
excavation of basement, footings, piers or foundations, erection of temporary
forms, the installation of piling under proposed subsurface footings, or the
installation of sewer, gas and water pipes, or electrical or other service
lines from the street.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.038 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.039 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days
after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Board shall set a time and place,
within not less than ten or not more than 30 days, for the purpose of
considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will
be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek relief
therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state including
the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. § 679.101.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.050 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be:
      (1)   Any areas of the borough, classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the flood insurance study (FIS) and the accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRMs) dated July 3, 2012, and issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the flood insurance study; and
      (2)   Any community identified flood hazard areas.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments, are hereby adopted by borough and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.051 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   Floodway area. The floodway area/district identified as floodway in
the FIS which represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at
any point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been
identified in other available studies or sources of information for those
special floodplain areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (B)   AE area/district. The AE area/district without floodway shall be those
areas identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA
and for which base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no
floodway has been delineated.
      (1)   In AE area/district without floodway, no new development shall be
permitted unless it can be demonstrated that the cumulative effect of all past
and projected development will not increase the BFE by more than one foot.
      (2)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any AE area/district without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
than one foot at any point.
   (C)   Community identified flood hazard areas. Community identified flood
hazard areas shall be those areas where the borough has identified local flood
hazard or ponding areas, as delineated and adopted on a local flood hazard map
using best available topographic data and locally derived information such as
flood of record, historic high water marks, soils or approximate study
methodologies.
   (D)   Floodplain area.
      (1)   Description. The areas identified as Zone A in the FIS which are
subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood event determined using
approximate methodologies. The A area/district shall be those areas identified
as an A Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no
1% annual chance flood elevations have been provided. For these areas,
elevation and floodway information from other federal, state or other
acceptable source shall be used when available. Because detailed hydraulic
analyses have not been performed, no BFEs or flood depths are shown.
      (2)   Special requirements.
         (a)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
a permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
         (b)   When available, information from other federal, state and other
acceptable sources shall be used to determine the BFE, as well as a floodway
area, if possible. When no other information is available, the BFE shall be
determined by using a point on the boundary of the identified floodplain area
which is nearest the construction site in question.
         (c)   1.   Floodplains shall be calculated using the method
established in Appendix IV, which is adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein, and shown on all subdivision and land development plans, where
applicable. The floodplain controls established within the borough zoning
ordinance (as codified in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances), as amended shall be applied to those
floodplains.
            2.   When the applicant is required to determine the elevation with
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques, hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the borough.
   (E)   Shallow flooding area.
      (1)   Description. The areas identified as Zones AO and AH in the FIS.
These areas are subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
where average depths are between one and three feet.
      (2)   Special requirements. Establish drainage paths to guide floodwaters
around and away from structures on slopes.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.052 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the
Borough Council where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, a community shall notify the FEMA for a letter of map revision
(LOMR) of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data. The
situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) are
required are:
      (1)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
      (2)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
      (3)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited to
installing culverts and bridges).
   (B)   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   (C)   Within any identified floodplain area (see §
151.051), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.053 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Borough Planning Commission and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Board. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.065 GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and State Department of Community and Economic
Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation of any
watercourse.
   (B)   Technical or scientific data. Technical or scientific data shall be
submitted to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) within six months of the
completion of any new construction, development or other activity resulting in
changes in the BFE.
   (C)   Strict compliance. Any new construction, development, uses or
activities allowed within any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in
strict compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter and any other
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 ELEVATION AND FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In A, AE, A1-30, and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
151.051(D)(2)(b).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2006 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2006 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code (Chapters 401 through 405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In A, AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to at least one and one-half feet above the
regulatory flood elevation, or be designed and constructed so that the space
enclosed below the regulatory flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there no base flood elevations are specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above
at least one and one-half feet above the regulatory flood elevation determined
in accordance with §
151.051(D)(2)(b).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made water-tight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (5)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2006 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2006 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code (Chapters 401 through 405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (including basement) is
prohibited. The term fully enclosed space includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Partially enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building
access or incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be
designed and constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls.
The term fully partially enclosed space also includes crawl spaces.
      (3)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity;
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 600 square feet;
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential;
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to at least one
and one-half feet above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited;
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited; and
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
Editor’s note:
   The requirement to elevate and floodproof to the regulatory flood elevation
(or the base flood elevation plus one and one-half foot of freeboard) as stated
in §
151.066 is an alternative to the basic national flood insurance program’s
(NFIP’s) requirement to elevate and floodproof to the BFE. The elevation of
structures an additional one and one-half foot of freeboard reduces insurance
premium rates and also provides a greater level of protection from flood to
these structures.
§ 151.067 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only, sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of floodwaters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
151.068, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code (Chapters 401 through 405), as amended,
and not limited to, the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections and divisions of this chapter, to the extent that they are more
restrictive and/or supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2006 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2006 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.068 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act,
being 32 P.S. § 679.101, and the regulations adopted by the Department of
Community and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or
substantially improved structure which:
         (a)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances;
         (b)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a
supply of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
         (c)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions.
      (2)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A) above, shall be prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   Where permitted within any floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved structure of the kind described in division (A) above,
shall be:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent water-tight standard.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.069 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas
where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.070 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Within any floodplain area, manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.071 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
§ 151.085 GENERAL.
   (A)   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. § 679.101, the following activities
shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area.
   (B)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing/retirement homes;
      (3)   Jails or prisons; and
      (4)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured
home park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.100 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
151.001 shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.101 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area that would cause any increase in BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any special floodplain area that would, together with all other existing
and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2006 IBC and the 2006 IRC.
   (E)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
   (F)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
VARIANCES
§ 151.115 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.116 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the borough in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
151.039 and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any special floodplain area that would, together with all
other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE than one foot at
any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (or prohibited activities) (§
151.085) or to development which may endanger human life (§
151.068).
      (4)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a variance is granted, the borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (7)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the borough shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense; nor
            2.   Create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
      (8)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the borough. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.130 GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.131 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood-resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall MINOR REPAIRS include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after July 16, 1990, and includes any subsequent improvements thereto.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the SUBDIVISION by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall pay a fine to borough, of not less than $25 nor more than
$1,000 plus costs of prosecution, per violation. Each day during which any
violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to the above penalties all other actions are hereby reserved including
an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this chapter. The imposition
of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or noncompliance with, this chapter
shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance or permit it to continue and
all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations and
noncompliance within a reasonable time. Any development initiated or any
structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or
relocated, in noncompliance with this chapter may be declared by the Board to
be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Little Lehigh Creek Watershed Stormwater Management
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
Sacony Creek Stormwater Management
   
152.15   Adopted by reference
Borough of Topton Stormwater Management Ordinance
   
152.20   General provisions
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Stormwater management standards
   
152.23   Stormwater management site plan requirements
   
152.24   Operation and maintenance
   
152.25   Fees and expenses
   
152.26   Prohibitions
   
152.27   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Operation and Maintenance Agreement Stormwater Management Best
Management Practices (SWM BMPs)
LITTLE LEHIGH CREEK WATERSHED STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Little Lehigh Creek Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management Plan, copies
of which are on file in the borough offices, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 8-2005, passed 12-27-2005)
SACONY CREEK STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 152.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Sacony Creek Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management Plan, copies of
which are on file in the borough offices, is adopted and incorporated as part
of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 12-2008, passed 10-13-2008)
BOROUGH OF TOPTON STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
§ 152.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Borough of Topton Stormwater Management Ordinance.”
   (B)   Statement of findings. The governing body of the municipality finds
that:
      (1)   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases runoff volumes, flows and
velocities, contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying
capacity of streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public
facilities to carry and control stormwater, undermines floodplain management
and flood control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater
recharge, threatens public health and safety, and increases nonpoint source
pollution of water resources.
      (2)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management (SWM), including
reasonable regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff,
is fundamental to the public health, safety, and welfare and the protection of
people of the Commonwealth, their resources, and the environment.
      (3)   Stormwater is an important water resource that provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and supports the base flow of streams.
      (4)   The use of green infrastructure and low impact development (LID)
are intended to address the root cause of water quality impairment by using
systems and practices which use or mimic natural processes to:
         (a)   Infiltrate and recharge,
         (b)   Evapotranspire, and/or
         (c)   Harvest and use precipitation near where it falls to earth.
Green infrastructure practices and LID contribute to the restoration or
maintenance of pre-development hydrology.
      (5)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
Implement a program of stormwater controls. These municipalities are required
io obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
program.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote health, safety,
and welfare within the municipality and its watershed by minimizing the harms
and maximizing the benefits described in division (B) of this section, through
provisions designed to:
      (1)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code 93 to protect, maintain, reclaim, and restore the
existing and designated uses of the waters of this Commonwealth.
      (2)   Preserve natural drainage systems.
      (3)   Manage stormwater runoff close to the source, reduce runoff volumes
and mimic predevelopment hydrology.
      (4)   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater
planning and management.
      (5)   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources.
      (6)   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds.
      (7)   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all stormwater best
management practices (BMPs) that are implemented within the municipality.
      (8)   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
   (D)   Statutory authority. The municipality is empowered to regulate land
use activities that affect runoff by the authority of the Act of July 31, 1968,
P.L 805, No. 247, The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended,
and/or the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L 864 (Act 167), 32 P.S. § 680.1, et seq.,
as amended, The Stormwater Management Act.
   (E)   Applicability. All regulated activities and ail activities that may
affect stormwater runoff, including land development and earth disturbance
activity, are subject to regulation by this subchapter.
   (F)   Repealer. Any other ordinance provision(s) or regulation of the
municipality inconsistent with any of the provisions of this subchapter is
hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (G)   Severability. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction
declares any section or provision of this subchapter invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of any of the remaining provisions of this
subchapter.
   (H)   Compatibility with other requirements. Approvals issued and actions
taken under this subchapter do not relieve the applicant of the responsibility
to secure required permits or approvals for activities regulated by any other
code, law, regulation or ordinance.
   (I)   Erroneous permit. Any permit or authorization issued or approved based
on false, misleading or erroneous information provided by an applicant is void
without the necessity of any proceedings for revocation. Any work undertaken or
use established pursuant to such permit or other authorization is unlawful. No
action may be taken by a board, agency or employee of the municipality
purporting to validate such a violation.
   (J)   Waivers. 
      (1)   If the municipality determines that any requirement under this
subchapter cannot be achieved for a particular regulated activity, the
municipality may, after an evaluation of alternatives, approve measures other
than those in this subchapter, subject to divisions (J)(2) and (J)(3) below.
      (2)   Waivers or modifications of the requirements of this subchapter may
be approved by the municipality if enforcement will exact undue hardship
because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question, provided
that the modifications will not be contrary to the public interest, and that
the purpose of the subchapter is preserved. Cost or financial burden shall not
be considered a hardship. Modification may be considered if an alternative
standard or approach will provide equal or better achievement of the purpose of
this subchapter. A request for modifications shall be in writing and accompany
the stormwater management site plan submission. The request shall provide the
facts on which the request is based, the provision(s) of this subchapter
involved and the proposed modification.
      (3)   No waiver or modification of any regulated stormwater activity
involving earth disturbance greater than or equal to one acre may be granted by
the municipality unless that action is approved in advance by the Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) or the delegated county conservation district.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, certain terms and words used
herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the
singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the
singular; words of masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of
feminine gender include masculine gender.
      (2)   The word INCLUDES or INCLUDING shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
      (3)   The words SHALL and MUST are mandatory; the words MAY and SHOULD
are permissive.
   (B)   These definitions do not necessarily reflect the definitions contained
in pertinent regulations or statutes, and are intended for this subchapter
only.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Activities associated with agriculture such
as agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation, and animal heavy use
areas. This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land
clearing, plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing
and raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures.
Construction of new buildings or impervious area is not considered an
agricultural activity.
      (2)   APPLICANT. A landowner, developer, or other person who has filed an
application to the municipality for approval to engage in any regulated
activity at a project site in the municipality.
      (3)   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Activities, facilities, designs,
measures, or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated
activities, to meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater
recharge, and to otherwise meet the purposes of this subchapter. Stormwater
BMPs are commonly grouped into one of two broad categories or measures:
“structural” or “non-structural.” In this subchapter, non-structural BMPs or
measures refer to operational and/or behavior-reiated practices that attempt to
minimize the contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff, whereas structural
BMPs or measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that
is installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff. Structural BMPs include,
but are not limited to, a wide variety of practices and devices, from large-
scale retention ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground
treatment systems, infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design,
bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested
buffers, sand filters, detention basins, and manufactured devices. Structural
stormwater BMPs are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
      (4)   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A conservation district, as defined in
Section 3(c) of the Conservation District Law (3 P.S. § 851(c)) that has the
authority under a delegation agreement executed with DEP to administer and
enforce all or a portion of the regulations promulgated under 25 Pa. Code 102.
      (5)   DESIGN STORM. The magnitude and temporal distribution of
precipitation from a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g., a
five-year storm) and duration (e.g., 24 hours) used in the design and
evaluation of stormwater management systems. Also see RETURN PERIOD.
      (6)   DETENTION VOLUME. The volume of runoff that is captured and
released into the waters of the Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
      (7)   DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      (8)   DEVELOPMENT SITE (SITE). See PROJECT SITE.
      (9)   DISTURBED AREA. An unstabilized land area where an earth
disturbance activity is occurring or has occurred.
      (10)   EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. A construction or other human activity
which disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to; clearing
and grubbing; grading; excavations; embankments; road maintenance; building
construction; and the moving, depositing, stockpiling, or storing of soil,
rock, or earth materials.
      (11)   EROSION. The natural process by which the surface of the land is
worn away by water, wind, or chemical action.
      (12)   EXISTING CONDITION - The dominant land cover during the 5-year
period immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity.
      (13)   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (14)   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from
any natural source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a
special flood hazard area. Also includes areas that comprise Group 13 Soils, as
listed in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for Sewage
Enforcement Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP).
      (15)   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
floodway, it is assumed-absent evidence to the contrary-that the floodway
extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream.
      (16)   FOREST MANAGEMENT/TIMBER OPERATIONS. Planning and activities
necessary for the management of forestland. These include conducting a timber
inventory, preparation of forest management plans, siivlcultural treatment,
cutting budgets, logging road design and construction, timber harvesting, site
preparation, and reforestation.
      (17)   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. Systems and practices that use or mimic
natural processes to infiltrate, evapotranspire, or reuse stormwater on the
site where it is generated.
      (18)   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). Infiltration rates of soils vary
widely and are affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake
rates. Soils are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C, and D) according to their
minimum infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged
wetting. The NRCS defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the
soils in the United States and their group classification. The soils in the
area of the development site may be identified from a soil survey report that
can be obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district offices. Soils
become less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D (NRCS).
      (19)   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS AREA). A surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground, impervious surfaces (or areas) shall
include, but not be limited to: roofs; additional indoor living spaces, patios,
garages, storage sheds and similar structures; and any new streets or
sidewalks. Decks, parking areas, and driveway areas are not counted as
impervious areas if they do not prevent infiltration.
      (20)   KARST. A type of topography or landscape characterized by surface
depressions, sinkholes, rock pinnacles/uneven bedrock surface, underground
drainage, and caves. KARST is formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestone or
dolomite.
      (21)   LAND DEVELOPMENT (DEVELOPMENT). Inclusive of any or all of the
following meanings:
         (a)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts, or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
            1.   A group of two or more buildings or
            2.   The division or allocation of land or space between or among
two or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose
of streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups, or other
features;
         (b)   Any subdivision of land;
         (c)   Development in accordance with Section 503(1.1) of the PA
Municipalities Planning Code.
      (22)   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). Site design approaches and small-
scale stormwater management practices that promote the use of natural systems
for infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of rainwater. LID can be
applied to new development, urban retrofits, and revitalization projects. LID
utilizes design techniques that infiltrate, filter, evaporate, and store runoff
close to its source. Rather than rely on costly large-scale conveyance and
treatment systems, LID addresses stormwater through a variety of small, cost-
effective landscape features located on-site.
      (23)   MUNICIPALITY. Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
      (24)   NRCS. USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (previously
SCS).
      (25)   PEAK DISCHARGE.  The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a
specific storm event.
      (26)   PERVIOUS AREA. Any area not defined as impervious.
      (27)   PROJECT SITE. The specific area of land where any regulated
activities in the municipality are planned, conducted, or maintained.
      (28)   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania
Department of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required
by this subchapter.
      (29)   REGULATED ACTIVITIES. Any earth disturbance activities or any
activities that involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that
may affect stormwater runoff.
      (30)   REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Activity involving earth
disturbance subject to regulation under 25 Pa. Code 92, 25 Pa. Code 102, or the
Clean Streams Law.
      (31)   RETENTION VOLUME/REMOVED RUNOFF. The volume of runoff that is
captured and not released directly into the surface waters of this Commonwealth
during or after a storm event.
      (32)   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval, in years, within which a
storm event of a given magnitude can be expected to occur one time. For
example, the 25-year return period rainfall would be expected to occur on
average once every 25 years; or stated in another way, the probability of a 25-
year storm occurring in any one year is 0.04 (i.e., a 4% chance).
      (33)   RIPARIAN BUFFER. A permanent area of trees and shrubs located
adjacent to streams, lakes, ponds and wetlands.
      (34)   RUNOFF. Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
      (35)   SEDIMENT. Soils or other materials transported by surface water as
a product of erosion.
      (36)   STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. The regulatory requirements to
protect, maintain, reclaim, and restore water quality under Title 25 of the
Pennsylvania Code and the Clean Streams Law.
      (37)   STORMWATER. Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting
from precipitation or snow or ice melt.
      (38)   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any structure, natural or man-
made, that, due to its condition, design, or construction, conveys, stores, or
otherwise affects stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities
include, but are not limited to: detention and retention basins; open channels;
storm sewers; pipes; and infiltration facilities.
      (39)   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN. The plan prepared by the
developer or his representative indicating how stormwater runoff will be
managed at the development site in accordance with this subchapter. STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN will be designated as SWM site plan throughout this
subchapter.
      (40)   SUBDIVISION. As defined in The Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247.
      (41)   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      (42)   WATERS OF THIS COMMONWEALTH. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance
of surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or
artificial, within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
      (43)   WATERSHED. Region or area drained by a river, watercourse, or
other surface water of this Commonwealth.
      (44)   WETLAND. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and
similar areas.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
Statutory references:
   U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS). National Engineering Handbook. Part 630: Hydrology, 1969-2001
Originally published as the National Engineering Handbook, Section 4:
Hydrology. Available from the NRCS online at: http://www.nrcs.usda,gov/.
   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
1986. Technical Release 55; Urban Hydrology for Smell Watersheds, 2nd Edition.
Washington, D.C.
§ 152.22 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   For all regulated activities, unless preparation of an SWM site
plan is specifically exempted in division (B) below of this section:
         (a)   Preparation and implementation of an approved SWM site plan is
required.
         (b)   No regulated activities shall commence until the municipality
issues written approval of an SWM site plan, which demonstrates compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   SWM site plans approved by the municipality, in accordance with §
152.23(F), shall be on site throughout the duration of the regulated activity.
      (3)   The municipality may, after consultation with DEP, approve measures
for meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in this
subchapter, provided that they meet the minimum requirements of, and do not
conflict with, state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law.
      (4)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and
sediment control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated, and maintained
during the regulated earth disturbance activities (e.g., during construction)
to meet the purposes and requirements of this subchapter and to meet all
requirements under Title 25 of the Pennsylvania Code and the Clean Streams Law.
Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment
Pollution Control Program Manual (E&S Manual), No. 363-2134-006, as amended and
updated.
      (5)   Impervious areas:
         (a)   The measurement of impervious areas shall include all of the
impervious areas in the total proposed development even if development is to
take place in stages.
         (b)   For development taking place in stages, the entire development
plan must be used in determining conformance with this subchapter.
         (c)   For projects that add impervious area to a parcel, the total
impervious area on the parcel is subject to the requirements of this
subchapter, except that the volume controls in division (C) below of this
section and the peak rate controls of division (D) of this section do not need
to be retrofitted to existing impervious areas that are not being altered by
the proposed regulated activity.
      (6)   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated, or otherwise altered without written
notification to the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
      (7)   All regulated activities shall include such measures as necessary
to:
         (a)   Protect health, safety, and property.
         (b)   Meet the water quality goals of this subchapter by implementing
measures to:
            1.   Minimize disturbance to floodplains, wetlands, and wooded
areas.
            2.   Maintain or extend riparian buffers.
            3.   Avoid erosive flow conditions in natural flow pathways.
            4.   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of this Commonwealth.
            5.   Disconnect impervious surfaces by directing runoff to pervious
areas, wherever possible.
         (c)   Incorporate methods described in the Pennsylvania Stormwater
Best Management Practices Manual (BMP Manual). If methods other than green
infrastructure and LID methods are proposed to achieve the volume and rate
controls required under this subchapter, the SWM site plan must include a
detailed justification demonstrating that the use of LID and green
infrastructure is not practicable.
      (8)   The design of all facilities over karst shall include an evaluation
of measures to minimize adverse effects.
      (9)   Infiltration BMPs should DB spread out, made as shallow as
practicable, and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration
features while still meeting the other requirements of this subchapter.
      (10)   Normally dry, open top, storage facilities should completely drain
both the volume control and rate control capacities over a period of time not
less than 24 and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
      (11)   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates
of discharge should be obtained from the latest version of the Precipitation-
Frequency Atlas of the United States, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design
Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland. NOAA’s Atlas 14 can be accessed at:
http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
      (12)   For all regulated activities, SWM BMPs shall be designed,
implemented, operated, and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of
this subchapter and to meet all requirements under Title 25 of the Pennsylvania
Code, the Clean Streams Law, and the Storm Water Management Act.
      (13)   Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the BMP
Manual.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Regulated activities that result in cumulative earth disturbances
less than those contained in the sliding scale incorporated herein and marked
as Appendix A are exempt from the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below
of this section, and §
152.23 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Agricultural activity is exempt from the SWM site plan preparation
requirements of this subchapter provided the activities are performed according
to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
      (3)   Forest management and timber operations are exempt from the SWM
site plan preparation requirements of this subchapter provided the activities
are performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
      (4)   Exemptions from any provisions of this subchapter shall not relieve
the applicant from the requirements in divisions (A)(4) through (A)(11) of this
section.
      (5)   The municipality may deny or revoke any exemption pursuant to this
section at any time for any project that the municipality believes may pose a
threat to public health and safety or the environment.
   (C)   Volume controls. The green infrastructure and low impact development
practices provided in the BMP Manual shall be utilized for all regulated
activities wherever possible. Water volume controls shall be implemented using
the Design Storm Method in division (C)(1) or the Simplified Method in division
(C)(2) below. For regulated activity areas equal or less than one acre that do
not require hydrologlc routing to design the stormwater facilities, this
subchapter establishes no preference for either methodology; therefore, the
applicant may select either methodology on the basis of economic
considerations, the intrinsic limitations on applicability of the analytical
procedures associated with each methodology and other factors.
      (1)   The Design Storm Method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual) is applicable to
any size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
         (a)   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the 2-year 24-hour duration precipitation.
         (b)   For modeling purposes:
            1.   Existing (predevelopment) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow in good condition, 20%.
            2.   (Enter a percentage no less than 20%, up to 100%) of existing
impervious area, when present, shall be considered meadow in good condition in
the model for existing conditions.
      (2)   The Simplified Method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the Design Storm Method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities. For new impervious surfaces:
         (a)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
         (b)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not
be released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options
include reuse, evaporation, transpiration, and infiltration.
         (c)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first 0.5 inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
         (d)   This method is exempt from the requirements of division (D)
below, Rate Controls.
   (D)   Rate controls.
      (1)   For areas not covered by a release rate map from an approved Act
167 Stormwater Management Plan: Post-development discharge rates shall not
exceed the pre-development discharge rates for the 1-, 2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50-,
and 100-year, 24-hour storm events. If it is shown that the peak rates of
discharge indicated by the post-development analysis are less than or equal to
the peak rates of discharge indicated by the predevelopment analysis for 1-,
2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50-, and 100-year, 24-hour storms, then the requirements of
this section have been met. Otherwise, the applicant shall provide additional
controls as necessary to satisfy the peak rate of discharge requirement.
      (2)   For areas covered by a release rate map from an approved Act 167
Stormwater Management Plan: For the 1-, 2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50-, and 100-year,
24-hour storm events, the post-development peak discharge rates will follow the
applicable approved release rate maps. For any areas not shown on the release
rate maps, the post-development discharge rates shall not exceed the pre-
development discharge rates.
   (E)   Riparian buffers.
      (1)   In order to protect and improve water quality, a riparian buffer
easement shall be created and recorded as part of any subdivision or land
development that encompasses a riparian buffer.
      (2)   Except as required by 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102, the riparian buffer
easement shall be measured to be the greater of the limit of the 100 year
floodplain or a minimum of 35 feet from the top of the streambank (on each
side).
      (3)   Minimum management requirements for riparian buffers.
         (a)   Existing native vegetation shall be protected and maintained
within the riparian buffer easement.
         (b)   Whenever practicable invasive vegetation shall be actively
removed and the riparian buffer easement shall be planted with native trees,
shrubs and other vegetation to create a diverse native plant community
appropriate to the intended ecological context of the site.
      (4)   The riparian buffer easement shall be enforceable by the
municipality and shall be recorded in the appropriate County Recorder of Deeds
Office, so that it shall run with the land and shall limit the use of the
property located therein. The easement shall allow for the continued private
ownership and shall count toward the minimum lot area a required by zoning,
unless otherwise specified in the municipal zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Any permitted use within the riparian buffer easement shall be
conducted in a manner that will maintain the extent of the existing 100-year
floodplain, improve or maintain the stream stability, and preserve and protect
the ecological function of the floodplain.
      (6)   The following conditions shall apply when public and/or private
recreation trails are permitted within riparian buffers:
         (a)   Trails shall be for non-motorized use only.
         (b)   Trails shall be designed to have the least impact on native
plant species and other sensitive environmental features.
      (7)   Septic drainfields and sewage disposal systems shall not be
permitted within the riparian buffer easement and shall comply with setback
requirements established under 25 Pa. Code 73.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-0300-002
(December 2006), as amended and updated. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual, Harrisburg, PA.
   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, No. 363-2134-008 (March
31, 2012), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control
Program Manual, Harrisburg, PA.
   U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies
Center, 2004-2006. Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, Silver Spring, Maryland. Internet address; http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
§ 152.23 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plan requirements. The following items shall be included in the SWM
site plan:
      (1)   Appropriate sections from the municipal’s subdivision and land
development ordinance, and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed
in preparing the SWM site plans. In instances where the municipality lacks
subdivision and land development regulations, the content of SWM site plans
shall follow the county's subdivision and land development ordinance.
      (2)   The municipality shall not approve any SWM site plan that is
deficient in meeting the requirements of this subchapter. At its sole
discretion and in accordance with this section when a SWM site plan is found to
be deficient, the municipality may either disapprove the submission and require
a resubmission, or in the case of minor deficiencies, the municipality may
accept submission of modifications.
      (3)   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPs, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan discussed in division (5)(i)
below.
      (4)   The following signature block for the municipality; “(Municipal
official or designee), on this date (Signature date), has reviewed and hereby
certifies that the SWM site plan meets all design standards and criteria of the
Municipal Ordinance No. (number assigned to ordinance).”
      (5)   The SWM site plan shall provide the following information:
         (a)   The overall stormwater management concept for the project.
         (b)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual. A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or karst topography, and other environmentally
sensitive areas, such as brownfields.
         (c)   Stormwater runoff design computations and documentation as
specified in this subchapter or as otherwise necessary to demonstrate that the
maximum practicable measures have been taken to meet the requirements of this
subchapter, including the recommendations and general requirements in §
152.22(A).
         (d)   Expected project time schedule.
         (e)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority.
         (f)   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality, and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project.
         (g)   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels, and swales.
         (h)   SWM site plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed
on-lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells.
         (i)   The SWM site plan shall include an O&M plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities. This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for O&M as well as schedules and costs
for O&M activities.
         (j)   A justification must be included in the SWM site plan if BMPs
other than green infrastructure methods and LID practices are proposed to
achieve the volume, rate and water quality controls under this subchapter.
   (B)   Plan submission. Five copies of the SWM site plan shall be submitted
as follows:
      (1)   Two copies to the municipality.
      (2)   One copy to the municipal engineer (when applicable).
      (3)   One copy to the County Conservation District.
      (4)   One copy to the County Planning Commission/Office.
   (C)   Plan review.
      (1)   SWM site plans shall be reviewed by the municipality for
consistency with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the applicant in writing within 45
days whether the SWM site plan is approved or disapproved. If the SWM site plan
involves a subdivision and land development plan, the notification shall occur
within the time period allowed by the municipalities planning code (90 days).
If a longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation, or
ordinance, the applicant will be so notified by the municipality.
      (3)   For any SWM site plan that proposes to use any BMPs other than
green infrastructure and LID practices to achieve the volume and rate controls
required under this Ordinance, the municipality will not approve the SWM site
plan unless it determines that green infrastructure and LID practices are not
practicable.
      (4)   If the municipality disapproves the SWM site plan, the municipality
will state the reasons for the disapproval in writing. The municipality also
may approve the SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall provide the
acceptable conditions for approval in writing.
   (D)   Modification of plans. A modification to a submitted SWM site plan
that involves a change in SWM BMPs or techniques, or that involves the
relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or that is necessary because soil or other
conditions are not as stated on the SWM site plan as determined by the
municipality shall require a resubmission of the modified SWM site plan in
accordance with this section.
   (E)   Resubmission of disapproved SWM site plans. A disapproved SWM site
plan may be resubmitted, with the revisions addressing the municipality's
concerns, to the municipality in accordance with this section. The applicable
review fee must accompany a resubmission of a disapproved SWM site plan.
   (F)   Authorization to construct and term of validity. The municipality's
approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the regulated activities contained in
the SWM site plan for a maximum term of validity of five years following the
date of approval. The municipality may specify a term of validity shorter than
five years in the approval for any specific SWM site plan. Terms of validity
shall commence on the date the municipality signs the approval for an SWM site
plan. If an approved SWM site plan is not completed according to division (G)
below of this section within the term of validity, then the municipality may
consider the SWM site plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. SWM
site plans that are considered disapproved by the municipality shall be
resubmitted in accordance with division (E) above.
   (G)   As-built plans, completion certificate, and final inspection.
      (1)   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of
all SWM BMPs included in the approved SWM site plan. The as-bullt plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the municipality.
      (2)   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications. The
latitude and longitude coordinates for all permanent SWM BMPs must also be
submitted, at the central location of the BMPs. If any licensed qualified
professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a licensed qualified
professional must sign the completion certificate.
      (3)   After receipt of the completion certification by the municipality,
the municipality may conduct a final inspection.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-2134-008 (March
31, 2012), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control
Program Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
§ 152.24 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Responsibilities of developers and landowners.
      (1)   The municipality shall make the final determination on the
continuing maintenance responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM site
plan. The municipality may require a dedication of such facilities as part of
the requirements for approval of the SWM site plan. Such a requirement is not
an indication that the municipality will accept the facilities. The
municipality reserves the right to accept or reject the ownership and operating
responsibility for any portion of the stormwater management controls.
      (2)   Facilities, areas, or structures used as SWM BMPs shall be
enumerated as permanent real estate appurtenances and recorded as deed
restrictions or conservation easements that run with the land.
      (3)   The O&M plan shall be recorded as a restrictive deed covenant that
runs with the land.
      (4)   The municipality may take enforcement actions against an owner for
any failure to satisfy the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Operation and maintenance agreements.
      (1)   Prior to final approval of the SWM site plan, the property owner
shall sign and record an operation and maintenance (O&M) agreement (see
Appendix A following this chapter) covering all stormwater control facilities
which are to be privately owned.
         (a)   The owner, successor and assigns shall maintain all facilities
in accordance with the approved maintenance schedule in the O&M agreement.
         (b)   The owner shall convey to the municipality conservation
easements to assure access for periodic inspections by the municipality and
maintenance, as necessary.
         (c)   The owner shall keep on file with the municipality the name,
address, and telephone number of the person or company responsible for
maintenance activities; in the event of a change, new information shall be
submitted by the owner to the municipality within ten working days of the
change.
      (2)   The owner is responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
SWM BMPs. If the owner fails to adhere to the O&M agreement, the municipality
may perform the services required and charge the owner appropriate fees.
Nonpayment of fees may result in a lien against the property.
   (C)   Performance guarantee. For SWM site plans that involve subdivision and
land development, the applicant shall provide a financial guarantee to the
municipality for the timely installation and proper construction of all
stormwater management controls as required by the approved SWM site plan and
this subchapter in accordance with the provisions of Sections 509, 510, and 511
of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.25 FEES AND EXPENSES.
   The municipality may include all costs incurred in the review fee charged to
an applicant. The review fee may include, but not be limited to, costs for the
following:
   (A)   Administrative/clerical processing.
   (B)   Review of the SWM site plan.
   (C)   Attendance at meetings.
   (D)   Inspections.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.26 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges and connections.
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water to enter a regulated small MS4 or to enter the surface waters of
this Commonwealth is prohibited.
      (2)   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into a
regulated small MS4, or discharges into waters of this Commonwealth, which are
not composed entirely of stormwater, except:
         (a)   As provided in division (A)(3) below; and
         (b)   Discharges authorized under a state or federal permit.
      (3)   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined
to be significant contributors to pollution a regulated small MS4 or to the
waters of this Commonwealth:
         (a)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
         (b)   Discharges from potable water sources including water line
flushing and fire hydrant flushing, if such discharges do not contain
detectable concentrations of total residual chlorine (TRC).
         (c)   Non-contaminated irrigation water, water from lawn maintenance,
landscape drainage and flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
         (d)   Diverted stream flows and springs.
         (e)   Non-contaminated pumped ground water and water from foundation
and footing drains and crawl space pumps.
         (f)   Non-contaminated HVAC condensation and water from geothermal
systems.
         (g)   Residential (i.e., not commercial) vehicle wash water where
cleaning agents are not utilized.
         (h)   Non-contaminated hydrostatic test water discharges, if such
discharges do not contain detectable concentrations of TRC.
      (4)   In the event that the municipality or DEP determines that any of
the discharges identified in division (3) above significantly contribute
pollutants to a regulated small MS4 or to the waters of this Commonwealth, the
municipality or DEP will notify the responsible person(s) to cease the
discharge.
   (B)   Roof drains and sump pumps. Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge
to infiltration or vegetative BMPs wherever feasible.
   (C)   Alteration of SWM BMPs. No person shall modify, remove, fill,
landscape, or alter any SWM BMPs, facilities, areas, or structures that were
installed as a requirement of this subchaptr without the written approval of
the municipality.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Right-of-entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the
municipality or its designated agent may enter at reasonable times upon any
property within the municipality to inspect the condition of the stormwater
structures and facilities in regard to any aspect regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection.
      (1)   The landowner or the owner's designee (including the municipality
for dedicated and owned facilities) shall inspect SWM BMPs, facilities and/or
structures installed under this subchapter according to the following
frequencies, at a minimum, to ensure the BMPs, facilities and/or structures
continue to function as intended:
         (a)   Annually for the first five years.
         (b)   Once every three years thereafter.
         (c)   During or immediately after the cessation of a ten-year or
greater storm.
      (2)   Inspections should be conducted during or immediately following
precipitation events. A written inspection report shall be created to document
each inspection. The inspection report shall contain the date and time of the
inspection, the individual(s) who completed the inspection, the location of the
BMP, facility or structure inspected, observations on performance, and
recommendations for improving performance, if applicable. Inspection reports
shall be submitted to the municipality within 30 days following completion of
the inspection.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated
activity except as provided in an approved SWM site plan, unless specifically
exempted in §
152.22(B).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to violate §
152.26(C) of this chapter.
      (3)   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are a
responsibility of the municipality.
   (D)   Suspension and revocation.
      (1)   Any approval or permit issued by the municipality pursuant to this
subchapter may be suspended or revoked for:
         (a)   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM site plan or O&M agreement.
         (b)   A violation of any provision of this subchapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule, or regulation relating to the regulated
activity.
         (c)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act
during the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution, or endangers the life or property of others.
      (2)   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the municipality when:
         (a)   The municipality has inspected and approved the corrections to
the violations that caused the suspension.
         (b)   The municipality is satisfied that the violation has been
corrected.
      (3)   An approval that has been revoked by the municipality cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of
this subchapter.
      (4)   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health,
or property, at its sole discretion, the municipality may provide a limited
time period for the owner to correct the violation. In these cases, the
municipality will provide the owner, or the owner's designee, with a written
notice of the violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct
the violation, if the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed
time period, the municipality may revoke or suspend any, or all, applicable
approvals and permits pertaining to any provision of this subchapter.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the municipality or its
designee, relevant to the provisions of this subchapter may appeal to the
municipality within 30 days of that action.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the municipality, relevant
to the provisions of this subchapter, may appeal to the County Court of Common
Pleas in the county where the activity has taken place within 30 days of the
municipality's decision.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.27 shall be guilty of a summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 for each violation, recoverable with
costs. Each day that the violation continues shall be a separate offense and
penalties shall be cumulative.
   (B)   In addition, the municipality may institute injunctive, mandamus, or
any other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the
enforcement of §§
152.20 through
152.27. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus, or other
appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
APPENDIX A: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (SWM BMPs)
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this day of                     ,
20     , by and between                                               
(hereinafter the "Landowner"), and                    ,
                    County, Pennsylvania (hereinafter "Municipality");
WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded by
deed in the land records of                     , County, Pennsylvania, Deed
Book                 at page           , (hereinafter "Property").
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the SWM BMP Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan approved by the
Municipality (hereinafter referred to as the "O&M Plan") for the property
identified herein, which is attached hereto as Appendix A and made part hereof,
as approved by the Municipality, provides for management of stormwater within
the confines of the Property through the use of BMPs; and
   WHEREAS, the Municipality, and the Landowner, his successors and assigns,
agree that the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Municipality
and the protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-site SWM
BMPs be constructed and maintained on the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the Municipality requires, through the implementation of the SWM
Site Plan, that SWM BMPs as required by said SWM Site Plan and the Municipal
Stormwater Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and
maintained by the Landowner, successors, and assigns.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
   1.   The Landowner shall construct the BMPs in accordance with the plans and
specifications identified in the SWM Site Plan.
   2.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the BMPs as shown on the SWM
site plan in good working order in accordance with the specific operation and
maintenance requirements noted on the approved O&M Plan.
   3.   The Landowner hereby grants permission to the Municipality, its
authorized agents and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable
times and upon presentation of proper credentials, to inspect the BMPs whenever
necessary. Whenever possible, the municipality shall notify the Landowner prior
to entering the property.
   4.   In the event the Landowner fails to operate and maintain the BMPs per
paragraph 2, the Municipality or its representatives may enter upon the
Property and take whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said BMP(s).
It is expressly understood and agreed that the municipality is under no
obligation to maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event shall this
agreement be construed to impose any such obligation on the Municipality.
   5.   In the event the Municipality, pursuant to this Agreement, performs
work of any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor,
use of equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the Landowner shall
reimburse the Municipality for all expenses (direct and indirect) incurred
within 10 days of receipt of invoice from the Municipality.
   6.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the on-site BMPs by the Landowner; provided, however, that this
Agreement shall not be deemed to create any additional liability of any party
for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater runoff.
   7.   The Landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns, and other
successors in interests, shall release the Municipality from all damages,
accidents, casualties, occurrences, or claims which might arise or be asserted
against said employees and representatives from the construction, presence,
existence, or maintenance of the BMP(s) by the Landowner or Municipality.
   8.   The Municipality intends to inspect the BMPs at a minimum of once every
three years to ensure their continued functioning.
      This Agreement shall be recorded at the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of                      County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant
running with the Property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on
the Landowner, his administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other
successors in interests, in perpetuity.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
(SEAL)                  For the Municipality:
                                                                                    
                     For the Landowner:
                                                                                    
 
ATTEST:
                              (City, Borough, Township)
County of                              , Pennsylvania
I,                               , a Notary Public in and for the county and
state aforesaid, whose commission expires on the                 day of
                     20           , do hereby certify that
                          whose name(s) is/are signed to the foregoing
Agreement bearing date of the                 day of                          
20           , has acknowledged the same before me in my said county and state.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS _____ day of                     , 20          .
                                                                                                                            
NOTARY PUBLIC                         (SEAL)
   APPENDIX “A”
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EXEMPTION CRITERIA
 
TOTAL PARCEL SIZE (ACRES) MINIMUM SETBACK DISTANCE1 SEMIPERVIOUS AND IMPERVIOUS
                          (FEET)                    ACRES (SQ. FT.) (LESS THAN)
0 TO 0.5                  10                        1,200
0.51.TO I                 50                        2,500
1.01 TO 2                 100                       4,000
2.01 TO 5                 250                       5,000
GREATER THAN 5.01         500                       7,500
1.   The minimum setback distance is measured between the proposed impervious
area and/or stormwater control/ structure/discharge point to the downslope
property boundary. In lieu of meeting the minimum distance criteria, the
applicant may provide documentation for Borough approval from any professional
authorized to perform this work under the Engineer, Land Surveyor, and
Geologist Registration Law, May 23, 1945, P.L. 913, No. 367 (63 P.S. § 148 et
seq., P.L. 913, as amended) that the increased flows from the site leave in the
same manner as the predevelopment condition, and that there will be no adverse
effects to the properties along the path of the flow(s) or that the increased
flow(s) will reach a natural watercourse or an existing stormwater management
structure before adversely affecting any property along the path of the flow
(s). This exemption is cumulative such that It applies only once to a tract,
and if the exemption amount is exceeded, it is not applicable and all
previously exempted impervious areas must be managed.
 
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Authority, Title and Purpose
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Purpose
Jurisdiction and Application
   
153.015   New application
   
153.016   Resubdivision
   
153.017   Changes in the chapter shall affect plans as follows
General Procedures
   
153.030   Submission and review requirements
Sketch Plan
   
153.045   Status
   
153.046   Submission
   
153.047   Distribution
   
153.048   Review by Borough Planning Commission
   
153.049   Sketch plan requirements
Preliminary Plan
   
153.060   Submission
   
153.061   Official submission
   
153.062   Official acceptance for review
   
153.063   Distribution
   
153.064   Review by Borough Planning Commission
   
153.065   Review by Borough Council
   
153.066   Preliminary plan requirements
Final Plan
   
153.080   Submission
   
153.081   Official submission
   
153.082   Official acceptance for review
   
153.083   Distribution
   
153.084   Review by Borough Planning Commission
   
153.085   Review by Borough Council
   
153.086   Completion and guarantee of improvements
   
153.087   Recording of final plan
   
153.088   Final plan requirements
   
153.089   Soil percolation test requirements
Plans Exempted from Standard Procedures
   
153.100   Minor subdivision
   
153.101   Resubdivision - revised final plan
   
153.102   Auction sale
   
153.103   Lot annexation
Design Standards
   
153.115   Application and general standards
   
153.116   Streets
   
153.117   Guide rail
   
153.118   Blocks
   
153.119   Lots and parcels
   
153.120   Sanitary sewage disposal
   
153.121   Water supply
   
153.122   Stormwater management designs and standards
   
153.123   Erosion and sediment controls and plan requirements
   
153.124   Natural features
   
153.125   Floodplains
   
153.126   Utilities and easements
   
153.127   Compliance with borough zoning ordinance
   
153.128   Access to the subdivision or land development
   
153.129   Solid waste management
   
153.130   Considerations for solar access
   
153.131   Carbonate areas
   
153.132   Required studies to be submitted by the developer
   
153.133   Public use and service areas
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.145   Area, density, yard and lot requirements
   
153.146   Compliance with state requirements
   
153.147   Compliance with borough design standards and improvements
specifications
   
153.148   Additional design standards
   
153.149   Nonresidential uses
   
153.150   Required permits and application for permits
   
153.151   Supervision of park
   
153.152   Notices, hearings and orders
Improvement Specifications
   
153.165   General requirements
   
153.166   Subdivision and improvements agreement
   
153.167   Supervision
   
153.168   Required improvements
Administration
   
153.180   Review fees
   
153.181   Modifications
   
153.182   Appeals
   
153.183   Preventive remedies
   
153.184   Conflicts and saving clause
   
153.185   Severability
Definitions
   
153.200   General
   
153.201   Definitions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY, TITLE AND PURPOSE
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   An ordinance providing for the control of the subdivision and development of
land and the approval of plats and replats of land within the jurisdiction of
the Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania, ordained by the Borough
Council under the authority of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Amended Borough of
Topton Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance of 2006”.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide standards to guide the
subdivision, resubdivision and development of land in borough in order to
promote the public health, safety and the general welfare of the residents and
inhabitants of the borough.
   (B)   This chapter shall be administered to assure orderly growth and
development consistent with comprehensive plans and zoning ordinances for the
borough; to assure the protection and proper use of land, light and air; to
assure adequate provision for traffic circulation, drainage, utilities, open
space, recreation facilities, erosion and sediment control, and public
services; to assure development consistent with the natural features of the
borough; to promote the preservation of the borough’s historic resources; to
assure properly designed streets and neighborhoods; and to assure coordination
of design among adjoining developments.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
JURISDICTION AND APPLICATION
§ 153.015 NEW APPLICATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no subdivision or land development
of any lot, tract or parcel of land shall be made, and no street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water main or other improvements in connection therewith
shall be laid out, constructed, opened or dedicated for public use or travel or
for the common use of occupants of buildings abutting thereon, except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not said
improvements are intended for dedication.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.016 RESUBDIVISION.
   Any change to land or improvements which were the subject of a recorded land
development plan or any replatting or resubdivision of land, including a change
of a recorded plan, shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.017 CHANGES IN THE CHAPTER SHALL AFFECT PLANS AS FOLLOWS.
   (A)   From the time an application for approval of a plat, whether
preliminary or final, is duly filed as provided in §§
153.060 and
153.080, and while such application is pending, no change or amendment of the
zoning ordinance, this chapter or other governing ordinance or plan shall
affect the decision on such application adversely to the applicant and the
applicant shall be entitled to a decision in accordance with the provisions of
the governing ordinances or plans as they stood at the time the application was
duly filed. In addition, when a preliminary application has been duly approved,
the applicant shall be entitled to final approval in accordance with the terms
of the approved preliminary application as hereinafter provided. However, if an
application is properly and finally denied, any subsequent application shall be
subject to the intervening change in governing regulations.
   (B)   When an application for approval of a plat, whether preliminary or
final, has been approved without conditions or approved with the applicant’s
acceptance of conditions, no subsequent change or amendment in the zoning, this
chapter or other governing ordinance or plan shall be applied to affect
adversely the right of the applicant to commence and to complete any aspect of
the approved development in accordance with the terms of such approval within
five years from such approval.
   (C)   Where final approval is preceded by preliminary approval, the
aforesaid five-year period shall be counted from the date of the preliminary
approval. In the case of any doubt as to the terms of a preliminary approval,
the terms shall be construed in the light of the provisions of the governing
ordinances or plans as they stood at the time when the application for such
approval was duly filed.
   (D)   Where the landowner has substantially completed the required
improvements as depicted upon the final plat within the aforesaid five-year
limit, or any extension thereof as may be granted by the governing body, no
change of municipal ordinance or plan enacted subsequent to the date of filing
of the preliminary plat shall modify or revoke any aspect of the approved final
plat pertaining to zoning classification or density, lot, building, street or
utility location.
   (E)   In the case of a preliminary plan calling for the installation of
improvements beyond the five-year period, a schedule shall be filed by the
landowner with the preliminary plan delineating all proposed sections as well
as deadlines within which applications for final plan approval of each section
are intended to be filed. Such schedule shall be updated annually by the
applicant on or before the anniversary of the preliminary plan approval, until
final plan approval of the final section has been granted and any modification
in the aforesaid schedule shall be subject to approval of the governing body in
its discretion.
   (F)   Each section in any residential subdivision or land development,
except for the last section, shall contain a minimum of 25% of the total number
of dwelling units as depicted on the preliminary plan, unless a lesser
percentage is approved by the governing body in its discretion. Provided the
landowner has not defaulted with regard to or violated any of the conditions of
the preliminary plat approval, including compliance with landowner’s aforesaid
schedule of submission of final plats for the various sections, then the
aforesaid protections afforded by substantially completing the improvements
depicted upon the final plat within five years shall apply and for any section
or sections, beyond the initial section, in which the required improvements
have not been substantially completed within said five-year period the
aforesaid protections shall apply for an additional term or terms of three
years from the date of final plat approval for each section.
   (G)   Failure of landowner to adhere to the aforesaid schedule of submission
of final plats for the various sections shall subject any such section to any
and all changes in zoning, subdivision and other governing ordinance enacted by
the municipality subsequent to the date of the initial preliminary plan
submission.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the previous provisions of this subchapter, the five-
year period shall be extended for the duration of any litigation, including
appeals, which prevent the commencement or completion of the development, and
for the duration of any sewer or utility moratorium or prohibition which was
imposed subsequent to the filing of an application for preliminary approval of
a plan. In the event of an appeal filed by any party from the approval or
disapproval of a plan, the five-year period shall be extended by the total time
from the date the appeal was filed until a final order in such matter has been
entered and all appeals have been concluded and any period for filing appeals
or requests for reconsideration have expired; provided, however, no extension
shall be based upon any water or sewer moratorium which was in effect as of the
date of the filing of a preliminary application.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
GENERAL PROCEDURES
§ 153.030 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Hereafter, subdivision and land development plans shall be reviewed by
the Borough Planning Commission, the County Planning Commission and other
borough, county, state or federal officials as necessary, and shall be approved
or disapproved (except in the case of sketch plans) by the Borough Council in
accordance with the procedures specified in this chapter.
   (B)   For all subdivisions and land developments, except those exempted from
standard procedures in §§
153.100 through
153.103, a preliminary plan and a final plan shall be submitted. A sketch plan
may be submitted for informal discussion with the Borough Planning Commission.
   (C)   Land development plans shall be reviewed and approved or disapproved
in accordance with the procedures specified in this chapter. Occasionally,
situations involving de minimus development may arise where a land development
plan may not be required by the chapter. In this event the developer may
present the information regarding the development to the Planning Commission.
The information shall be sufficient to illustrate the type and extent of
development and potential impact of the proposal on traffic, stormwater
management, sewage disposal, water supply or similar concerns. The Planning
Commission shall review the information and make a recommendation to the
Borough Council whether the land development procedures of this chapter should
be followed. The Borough Council shall, after consideration of Planning
Commission’s recommendation, make the final decision whether the developer
should follow all the procedures for land development plan under this chapter.
   (D)   When any applicant authorizes an agent to represent said applicant,
the name and address of the authorized agent shall be indicated in writing on
the application for review.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
SKETCH PLAN
§ 153.045 STATUS.
   Submission of a sketch plan is optional, such submission shall not
constitute official submission of a plan to the borough, and the sketch plan is
submitted only for informal discussion between the developer and the Borough
Planning Commission. Neither the Planning Commission nor the Borough Council
shall take action on a sketch plan, nor shall there be any approval or
disapproval of the same. The submittal of a sketch plan, although optional, is
strongly recommended.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.046 SUBMISSION.
   At least 28 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Borough
Planning Commission, the developer shall submit nine copies of the sketch plan,
six copies of any supplementary data, the required filing fee and five copies
of the application for review of sketch plan Form 1 (available at the borough
offices) to the Borough Secretary. The Borough Secretary shall reject and
return to applicant any submission that does not comply with this section.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.047 DISTRIBUTION.
   The Borough Secretary shall distribute the plans and supplementary data as
follows:
   (A)   Secretary of the Borough Planning Commission: one copy of the sketch
plan, Form 1 (available at the borough offices) and any supplementary data;
   (B)   County Planning Commission: two copies to the County Planning
Commission when requested to do so by the Borough Planning Commission or when
required to do so by the County Planning Commission. The plans and
supplementary data shall be accompanied by one copy of Form 1 (available at the
borough offices), a letter requesting the county’s review and any required
filing fee, which shall be paid by the applicant;
   (C)   Borough Engineer: one copy of the sketch plan, Form 1 (available at
the borough offices) and any supplementary data;
   (D)   Borough Zoning Officer: one copy of the sketch plan, Form 1 (available
at the borough offices) and any supplementary data;
   (E)   Borough Council: one copy of the sketch plan, Form 1 (available at the
borough offices) and any supplementary data;
   (F)   Borough Secretary: two copies of the sketch plan; and
   (G)   Borough Fire Marshal: one copy of the sketch plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.048 REVIEW BY BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   A sketch plan shall be reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission at
one or more regularly scheduled or special meetings, but shall not constitute
an official submission of a plan to the borough.
   (B)   No official action shall be taken on a sketch plan. The borough shall
not be bound by comments made or note made as part of a sketch plan review.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.049 SKETCH PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The sketch plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one
inch equals 20 feet or one inch equals 50 feet with all dimensions shown in
feet and hundredths of a foot, except that if the average size of the proposed
lots is five acres or larger, the plan may be drawn to a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet.
   (B)   The sketch plan and all submitted prints thereof shall be made on
sheets either:
      (1)   Eighteen inches by 24 inches;
      (2)   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches; or
      (3)   Thirty-six inches by 48 inches.
   (C)   If the sketch plan has more than one sheet, a key diagram showing the
relative location of all the sheets shall be drawn on each sheet. In addition,
a match line shall be drawn on each sheet and the developer shall indicate
along each match line what sheet is adjoined at that match line.
   (D)   The sketch plan shall contain at least the following data, legibly
drawn to scale.
      (1)   Name and address of the developer and his or her authorized agent,
if any;
      (2)   Name and address of the record owner;
      (3)   Name of the subdivision or land development;
      (4)   Date of the plan;
      (5)   The words “Sketch Plan” shall be shown on each plan sheet;
      (6)   Approximate tract boundaries;
      (7)   A statement of the total acreage of the tract;
      (8)   North point;
      (9)   Written and graphic scale;
      (10)   The name and address of the person or firm responsible for the
design of the subdivision or land development plan;
      (11)   A location map, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 800 feet, with
sufficient information to enable the Borough Planning Commission to locate the
property being subdivided or developed. This map shall also show all existing
roads within or adjacent to the tract, proposed roads within the subdivision or
land development, and proposed roads within adjacent recorded subdivisions or
land developments;
      (12)   Significant topographical and physical features such as
watercourses, water bodies, quarries, railroad tracks, 100-year floodplains,
wetlands, tree masses, rock outcroppings, existing buildings, existing on-site
sewage disposal and water supply systems, areas of carbonate geology, areas of
8 to 15% slope, 15 to 25% slope and areas of over 25 % slope, and historic
resources;
      (13)   Proposed street and lot layout;
      (14)   When apartments, townhouses, commercial or industrial buildings
are proposed, the approximate location of buildings, access drives and parking
layouts shall be shown;
      (15)   Approximate lot sizes and dimensions;
      (16)   A statement of methods of water supply and sewage disposal;
      (17)   A statement of the use for each proposed lot, parcel and building
indicated on the plan;
      (18)   Zoning district lines within and bounding the property, zoning
district designations and area, yard and height requirements of the zoning
ordinance;
      (19)   Approximate locations of existing water supply and sewage disposal
systems; and
      (20)   Where a sketch plan shows the proposed subdivision or development
of only a portion of the total property, the plan shall be accompanied by a
drawing showing the entire contiguous land holdings of the developer and
indicating the area of proposed subdivision or development of the total
property. (This drawing shall be shown on a separate sheet from the sketch
plan.) The proposed street system for the remainder of the property proposed
for ultimate subdivision or development shall be shown so that the street
system in the submitted portion can be considered in relation to future
connections with the total property. In the case of properties in excess of 100
acres, the Borough Planning Commission may limit the area for which a
prospective street system must be shown. The developer shall also include a
statement indicating proposed future land use for the developed portion of his
or her property.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 153.060 SUBMISSION.
   Preliminary plans and required supplementary data for all subdivisions and
land developments shall be submitted to the borough for action pursuant to this
subchapter, unless exempted by §§
153.100 through
153.103. Preliminary plans shall be submitted by the developer or his or her
authorized agent to the Borough Secretary no less than 28 days prior to a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Borough Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.061 OFFICIAL SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Submission of five copies of the completed application for review of
preliminary plan (Form 2, available at the borough offices);
   (B)   An affidavit that the applicant is the owner or equitable owner of the
land proposed to be developed containing a copy of the document showing how the
applicant has the authority to proceed on behalf of all parties claiming any
ownership interest therein;
   (C)   Submission of 13 prints on paper of the preliminary plan which shall
comply with the requirements of §
153.086;
   (D)   Submission of seven copies of all other information and plans which
are required by §
153.086(E);
   (E)   Payment of the filing fee of the borough and the County Planning
Commission;
   (F)   In the case of a subdivision or land development which proposes
vehicular access or stormwater drainage onto a state road, the applicant shall
submit the preliminary plan and all supplementary data to the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation with a request for review of his or her proposed
access and/or drainage and shall submit evidence of such submission to the
borough with the preliminary plan submission;
   (G)   In the case of a preliminary plan calling for the installation of
improvements beyond a five-year period, a schedule shall be filed by the
applicant delineating all proposed sections as well as deadlines within which
applications for final plan approval of each section are intended to be filed.
Such schedule shall be updated annually by the applicant on or before the
anniversary of the preliminary plan approval, until final plan approval of the
final section has been granted and any modification in the aforesaid schedule
shall be subject to approval of the Borough Council at its discretion;
   (H)   Each section in any residential subdivision or land development,
except for the last section, shall contain a minimum of 25% of the total number
of dwelling units as depicted on the preliminary plan, unless a lesser
percentage is approved by the Borough Council at its discretion; and
   (I)   When a subdivision or land development is proposed to connect to a
sanitary sewer or water system not operated by the borough or a borough
municipal authority, the developer shall submit evidence to the borough that
the preliminary plan and all supplementary data have been submitted to the
appropriate agencies or companies for review.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.062 OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The application for review of the preliminary plan shall not be
considered as officially accepted for review, nor officially submitted to the
borough, nor officially filed with the borough until the date on which the
Borough Secretary sends by certified or registered mail to the developer or his
or her agent a preliminary plan receipt and a letter indicating the Borough
Planning Commission’s intent to review the application.
   (B)   If the prerequisites of this chapter are not met the Borough Secretary
or designee may indicate in writing to the applicant the borough’s intention to
not review the preliminary plan and request that the plan be resubmitted to
comply with the prerequisites to review a preliminary plan. The Borough
Secretary shall indicate in what ways the plan did not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.063 DISTRIBUTION.
   The Borough Secretary shall distribute the accepted preliminary plan and
supplementary information as follows:
   (A)   To the Borough Planning Commission:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of preliminary plan;
      (2)   One copy of the plan; and
      (3)   One copy of all other required information and plans.
   (B)   To the County Planning Commission:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of preliminary plan;
      (2)   The required filing fee and a letter requesting review;
      (3)   Two copies of the preliminary plan; and
      (4)   One copy of all other required information and plans.
   (C)   To the Borough Engineer:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of preliminary plan;
      (2)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (3)   Two copies of all other required information and plans.
   (D)   To the Borough Zoning Officer:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of preliminary plan; and
      (2)   One copy of the plan.
   (E)   To be retained by the Borough Secretary for the Borough Council:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of preliminary plan;
      (2)   One copy of the plan; and
      (3)   One copy of all other required information and plans.
   (F)   To the borough municipal authority, if such exists:
      (1)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (2)   Two copies of all other required information and plans.
   (G)   To the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (2)   Two copies of any material required by the Sewage Enforcement
Officer or State Department of Environmental Protection.
   (H)   To be retained by the Borough Secretary for the use at borough
meetings where the preliminary plan will be reviewed: two copies of the plan;
and
   (I)   To the Borough Fire Marshal: one copy of the plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.064 REVIEW BY BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a preliminary plan has been officially accepted for review by the
Borough Planning Commission it may be reviewed by the Borough Planning
Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting; provided however, that if
such submission has occurred less than 28 days prior to the scheduled meeting,
the Planning Commission may decline to review plan at said meeting and review
the plan at the following regularly scheduled or special meeting for that
purpose.
   (B)   No official action should be taken by the Borough Planning Commission
with respect to a preliminary plan until the Commission has received written
reports regarding the plan in question from the County Planning Commission and
where applicable, the Borough Recreation Board or the State Department of
Transportation. If no report is received from the County Planning Commission
within 30 days after it received a request to review the preliminary plan, or
if no report is received from the Borough Recreation Board within 45 days after
it received a request to review the preliminary plan, the Borough Planning
Commission may proceed to take official action on the plan in question.
   (C)   The Borough Engineer shall review each preliminary plan to ascertain
whether the plan meets the requirements of this chapter and any other
applicable ordinances and shall submit a report to the Borough Planning
Commission on the plan.
   (D)   The Borough Zoning Officer shall review each preliminary plan to
ascertain whether the plan meets the requirements of the borough zoning
ordinance and shall submit a report to the Borough Planning Commission on the
plan.
   (E)   When reviewing a preliminary plan, the Borough Planning Commission
should consider, in addition to its own comments, written reports regarding the
plan from the following:
      (1)   The Borough Engineer;
      (2)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (3)   The County Planning Commission;
      (4)   The Borough Fire Marshal;
      (5)   If on-site water supply and/or sanitary sewage disposal is proposed
for the subdivision, the report of the State Department of Environmental
Protection on the suitability of the land for the proposed facilities and/or
the report of the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer; and
      (6)   When the property being subdivided abuts a state route or when
preliminary highway design would affect the property, the report of the State
Department of Transportation regarding the effect the proposed plan has on
existing or proposed state highway facilities.
   (F)   Within 15 calendar days after the final meeting at which the
preliminary plan is reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission, the Borough
Planning Commission shall send written notice to the following of the action
taken by the Borough Planning Commission regarding the preliminary plan:
      (1)   The Borough Secretary;
      (2)   The President of the Borough Council;
      (3)   The Borough Engineer;
      (4)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (5)   The County Planning Commission;
      (6)   The applicant or his or her agent; and
      (7)   The appropriate municipal authority.
   (G)   When the review of the preliminary plan, by the Borough Planning
Commission, is favorable or unfavorable because the requirements of this
chapter or any applicable ordinance or law have not been met or because the
Borough Planning Commission deems modifications to the plan as submitted
desirable or necessary, the recommended modifications in the plan and/or the
specific provisions of this chapter or any applicable ordinance or law which
have not been met shall be noted in the minutes of this meeting at which the
plan was reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.065 REVIEW BY BOROUGH COUNCIL.
   (A)   After a preliminary plan has been reviewed by the Borough Planning
Commission and the comments of the Planning Commission regarding the plan have
been forwarded to the Borough Council, the plan shall be reviewed at one or
more regularly scheduled or special meetings called for that purpose by the
Borough Council.
   (B)   (1)   No official action shall be taken by the Borough Council with
respect to a preliminary plan until the borough has received the written report
of the County Planning Commission, provided the report is received within 30
days from the date the plan was forwarded to the County Planning Commission for
review.
      (2)   If such report is not received within 30 days, the Borough Council
may proceed to take action on the plan without consideration of comments from
the County Planning Commission.
   (C)   Before acting on a preliminary plan, the Borough Council may hold a
public hearing thereon after public notice.
   (D)   Within 15 days after the final meeting at which the plan is reviewed,
the Borough Secretary shall notify in writing the following of the action taken
by the Borough Council regarding the preliminary plan:
      (1)   The Borough Planning Commission;
      (2)   The Borough Engineer;
      (3)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (4)   The County Planning Commission;
      (5)   The applicant or his or her agent;
      (6)   The authorized engineer, surveyor or land planner of the applicant;
      (7)   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer, if on-site sewage disposal
is proposed; and
      (8)   The appropriate municipal authority.
   (E)   When the preliminary plan is not approved as filed, the decision shall
specify the defects found in the application and describe the requirements
which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the provisions of this
chapter or any applicable ordinance or law relied upon.
   (F)   The Borough Council may approve a preliminary plan subject to
conditions acceptable to the applicant, provided that the applicant indicates
his or her written acceptance of those conditions to the Borough Council.
   (G)   The approval of a preliminary plan does not authorize the recording of
a subdivision or land development plan nor the sale, lease or transfer of lots,
nor the construction of dwellings or other buildings or improvements.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.066 PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of
one inch equals 20 feet or one inch equals 50 feet with all dimensions shown in
feet and hundredths of a foot, except that if the average size of the proposed
lots is five acres or larger, the plan may be drawn to a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall be made on sheets 18 inches by 24 inches,
24 inches by 36 inches or 36 inches by 48 inches.
   (C)   If the preliminary plan requires more than one sheet, a key diagram
showing the relative location of all the sheets shall be drawn on each sheet.
In addition, a match line shall be drawn on each sheet and the developer shall
indicate along each match line what sheet is adjoined at that match line.
   (D)   A plan index, listing the title, number, latest revision and date
revised of each plan included in the submission, shall be included on the first
sheet of the plan set intended for eventual recording.
   (E)   The preliminary plan shall show:
      (1)   Name of the proposed subdivision or land development shall be shown
on each sheet;
      (2)   Name of the borough;
      (3)   The words “Preliminary Plan” shall appear on each plan sheet;
      (4)   North point;
      (5)   Written and graphic scale;
      (6)   Date of plan, including the month, day and year that the original
drawing was completed and in the case of revised drawings the month, day and
year that the original drawing was revised and a description of each revision;
      (7)   Name and address of the record owner;
      (8)   Name and address of the developer;
      (9)   Source of title to the tract, including date and grantor;
      (10)   The tax property identification number as found on the county tax
maps;
      (11)   A copy of the deed(s) for the tract;
      (12)   A statement of all previous subdivisions or land developments
having occurred on the tract;
      (13)   Name and address of each registered engineer, surveyor, architect
or landscape architect responsible for the plan;
      (14)   The names of any abutting subdivisions and land developments and
the book and page numbers where recorded;
      (15)   The names of the owners of any adjacent property owners and the
book and page numbers where recorded;
      (16)   A location map for the purpose of locating the property being
subdivided or developed, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 800 feet, showing
location of the property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining
property and to all roads, municipal boundaries, recorded subdivision and land
development plans, and recorded but unconstructed streets within 1,000 feet of
the subdivision or land development. A scale, north point and the proposed
street system within the subdivision or land development shall be shown;
      (17)   Total tract boundaries of the property being subdivided or
developed. The source of tract boundary data shall be given if not from a field
survey;
      (18)   Acreage of the tract being subdivided or developed and acreage of
the residue of the tract;
      (19)   Zoning data including all of the following, if applicable:
         (a)   Existing municipal zoning regulations, including district
designations, requirements for lot area, yards, lot coverage and building
height limitations, and any zoning boundary lines traversing the property;
         (b)   Any changes in the existing zoning to be requested;
         (c)   Any zoning regulations, other than district regulations,
governing lot size and/or yard requirements; and
         (d)   Any municipal regulations, other than zoning regulations,
governing lot size and/or yard requirements.
      (20)   Contour lines at vertical intervals of not more than two feet for
land with average natural slope of 4% or less and at intervals of not more than
five feet for land with average natural slope exceeding 4%. Contour lines shall
be from an aerial or field survey;
      (21)   Location and elevation of the datum to which contour elevations
refer. Datum used shall be a known, established benchmark. Sanitary sewer
manholes shall not be used as a datum base;
      (22)   All existing buildings lot lines, sanitary sewer lines, on-site
sewage disposal systems, water lines, wells, fire hydrants, utility lines,
storm drainage facilities, bridges, railroad tracks and other significant
human-made features within the proposed subdivision or land development;
      (23)   Lot lines of adjacent lots, and approximate locations of any
buildings, common open spaces, detention basins or drainage facilities existing
or approved within 100 feet of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision or
land development;
      (24)   All existing soil type boundaries as depicted in the county soils
survey;
      (25)   Soils characteristics for detention and retention pond areas;
      (26)   Areas of any hydric soils as classified in the county soils
survey, with a notation if none exist, if that is the case;
      (27)   Natural drainage channels, watercourses and water bodies;
      (28)   Tree masses and isolated live trees over one foot in diameter;
      (29)   Quarries, mine holes, rock outcroppings, stone fields, caves and
sinkholes;
      (30)   Areas of 8 to 15% slope, 15 to 25% slope and areas of over 25%
slope shall each be delineated on the plan by pattern or shading;
      (31)   Areas of carbonate geology;
      (32)   Wetlands shall be accurately shown and shall be encompassed by
bearings and distances, tied to a known property corner. The firm and/or
individual responsible for the wetland delineation shall be identified on the
plan;
      (33)   (a)   One hundred-year floodplains, including delineation of
floodway and flood fringe, established by study of FEMA, with base flood
elevations for the 100-year storm. For those watercourses for which studies
have not been performed by FEMA, calculated 100-year floodplains shall be
established by the developer in accordance with Appendix IV (determination of
floodplains), which is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein; and
         (b)   When a subdivision or land development contains a floodplain,
the elevation of roads, building sites and public utilities within or in the
vicinity of the floodplain shall be given.
      (34)   All existing streets and streets recorded but not constructed on
or abutting the tract, including names, existing and ultimate right-of-way
widths and lines, cartway widths and lines, and approximate grades;
      (35)   All existing easements and rights-of-way and the purposes for
which they have been established, deed restrictions and covenants;
      (36)   (a)   All proposed streets, their location, suggested name, right-
of-way and cartway widths and lines, centerline radii of horizontal curves,
intended ownership, a statement of any conditions governing their use, and
suggested classification (e.g., collector). The designation of minor, collector
and arterial streets is subject to the approval of the Borough Council; and
         (b)   Streets to be offered for dedication shall be indicated. For
streets that will not be dedicated, the arrangements to be made for the
ownership and maintenance of those streets shall be given.
      (37)   Location, width and purpose of all proposed easements and rights-
of-way. Bearings and distances shall be provided for easements when not
parallel to lot or street lines;
      (38)   Building setback lines along each street, lot line, utility line
and all proposed buildings;
      (39)   Lot lines, with approximate dimensions;
      (40)   Approximate lot areas;
      (41)   Lot numbers, numbered consecutively;
      (42)   A statement of the total number of lots and parcels;
      (43)   Intended use of lots;
      (44)   Location, size and material of all water mains, with connections
to existing facilities; fire hydrants; storage tanks; and water sources;
      (45)   Location, size, material, elevations and grade of all sanitary
sewers, with connections to existing facilities; pumping stations; force mains;
and sewage treatment plants, with type and degree of treatment proposed and
size and capacity of treatment facilities;
      (46)   Location, size, material, elevations and grade of all storm
drainage facilities, with connections to existing facilities. Cross-sections
shall be shown for all drainage swales;
      (47)   Location, size and proposed use of all parks, playgrounds,
recreation areas, open space, public buildings, and other public uses. Areas to
be offered for dedication to the borough shall be noted. Areas to be reserved
for public use but not to be dedicated shall be noted, any conditions governing
such areas shall be listed, and the arrangements to be made for the ownership,
administration and maintenance of these areas shall be given;
      (48)   Provisions for pedestrian and other non-vehicular or bicycling
circulation throughout the tract;
      (49)   Typical street cross-section drawing(s) of each proposed street,
including construction details of streets, shoulders, curbs and sidewalks and
cross-slopes of streets, shoulders, sidewalks and planting strips;
      (50)   Tentative profiles along the centerline of each proposed street.
Such profiles shall show existing and finished grades at one of the following
sets of scales or any combination thereof. Station numbers; length of vertical
curves; existing and proposed sanitary sewer mains and manholes with top and
invert elevation data; existing and proposed storm sewer mains, inlets,
manholes and culverts with top and invert elevation data; and existing and
proposed water mains where they cross other utilities shall be indicated:
         (a)   One inch equals ten feet horizontal and one inch equals one foot
vertical;
         (b)   One inch equals 20 feet horizontal and one inch equals two feet
vertical;
         (c)   One inch equals 40 feet horizontal and one inch equals four feet
vertical; or
         (d)   One inch equals 50 feet horizontal and one inch equals five feet
vertical.
      (51)   Preliminary designs of any bridges or culverts. Such designs shall
meet all applicable requirements of the State Department of Transportation and
the State Department of Environmental Protection. Capacity/loading calculations
shall be submitted;
      (52)   The proposed location of all townhouses, apartment buildings and/
or condominium buildings and parking facilities to serve the same;
      (53)   In the case of land development plans, the following additional
information shall be shown:
         (a)   The location, dimensions and use of all buildings;
         (b)   Location and grade of all parking areas and access drives, the
size and number of parking spaces and the width of aisles and access drives;
         (c)   The location, number and dimensions of off-street loading areas;
         (d)   Provisions for landscaping of the tract;
         (e)   Provisions for lighting of the tract;
         (f)   Provisions for traffic control;
         (g)   The location of refuse collection areas;
         (h)   A table showing extent of compliance with the area, yard and
height regulations of the borough zoning ordinance;
         (i)   Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking
requirements of the zoning ordinance; and
         (j)   A grading plan for the tract showing existing and proposed
contour lines at the interval required by division (E)(20) above. Lowest floor
elevations for proposed buildings shall be indicated.
      (54)   Location of school bus stop shelters or pads;
      (55)   Proposed restrictive covenants;
      (56)   Design speed of all proposed streets;
      (57)   Sight distance calculations for vertical curves in streets (see §
153.116(G));
      (58)   Sight distance calculations at street intersections (see §
153.116(I));
      (59)   Horizontal curve radii of cartway and right-of-way lines at street
intersections. The proposed cartway tie-in to existing street cartways shall be
indicated;
      (60)   On the subdivision plan or a plan view drawing of streets, station
numbers corresponding to the street profiles;
      (61)   Guide rail locations and construction detail (see §
153.117);
      (62)   Clear sight triangles at street intersections (see §
153.116(I));
      (63)   Proposed ownership and maintenance of storm drainage facilities;
      (64)   A typical treatment of the construction of driveways and the
handling of storm drainage where driveways will intersect streets. The borough
may require driveway culverts to be designed and such size noted on the plan
(see §
153.119(E));
      (65)   Proposed location and type of traffic-control devices;
      (66)   The location of deep probe and soil percolation test holes tied to
a known or proposed property/lot corner by bearing and distance. Each approved
on-site sewage disposal test site shall be enclosed in an easement of
sufficient size to allow the construction and maintenance of the absorption
area. In addition, the plan shall contain restrictive notes prohibiting the
disturbance of these areas for any use except for the construction and
maintenance of the absorption area;
      (67)   If on-site sewage disposal is proposed, the location of existing
and proposed wells within the tract boundaries and those 100 feet outside of
the boundaries of the tract shall be shown;
      (68)   The disposition of solid waste generated within the subdivision or
land development;
      (69)   List of contacts for underground utilities in the area, with
telephone numbers stated on the grading plan;
      (70)   A note stating that construction will be in accordance with the
borough codes, ordinances, standards and specifications;
      (71)   Where a preliminary plan shows the proposed subdivision or
development of only a portion of the total property, the plan shall be
accompanied by a drawing showing the entire contiguous land holdings of the
developer and indicating the area of proposed subdivision or development of the
total property. (This drawing shall be shown on a separate sheet from the
preliminary plan). The proposed street system for the remainder of the property
proposed for ultimate subdivision or development shall be shown so that the
street system in the submitted portion can be considered in relation to future
connections with the total property. In the case of properties in excess of 100
acres, the Borough Planning Commission may limit the area for which a
prospective street system on adjacent property must be shown. The developer
shall also include a statement indicating proposed future land use for the
undeveloped portion of his or her property;
      (72)   In the case of a proposed revision of a FEMA-mapped floodplain, a
letter of approval of such revision from FEMA;
      (73)   A plan for the surface drainage of the tract, including stormwater
runoff calculations and the proposed method of accommodating the anticipated
runoff. Stormwater calculations shall be made and drainage facilities designed
in accordance with this chapter, the borough stormwater management ordinance
and the Sacony Creek Watershed Stormwater Management ordinance, and any other
ordinances as applicable;
      (74)   A traffic impact study when required by §
153.132(B);
      (75)   A letter from the agency having right of approval (e.g Delaware
River Basin Commission) of the water supply and distribution system indicating
whether there is adequate capacity to serve the subdivision or land development
and giving its comments regarding the proposed water supply and distribution
systems;
      (76)   A letter from the agency having right of approval of the sanitary
sewer system indicating whether there is adequate capacity to serve the
subdivision or land development and giving its comments regarding the proposed
sanitary sewer system;
      (77)   (a)   Habitats of threatened and endangered species of special
concern in Pennsylvania within the tract, as established by the Pennsylvania
Biological Survey and/or Pennsylvania Natural Diversity Inventory; and
         (b)   If such habitats exist on the tract, the measures proposed to
protect the habitats shall be indicated.
      (78)   All historic and archaeological resources which have been
identified and/or inventoried by the borough, the county, the County Planning
Commission, the State Historical and Museum Commission, and/or are listed in
the National Register of Historic Buildings or Places located within the tract
or within 50 feet of the tract;
      (79)   Where the developer proposes to locate a street, driveway or other
improvement within a portion of a utility right-of-way, or to relocate an
existing utility line, an agreement from the appropriate utility company giving
permission to locate within the right-of-way or relocate the existing line;
      (80)   In the case of subdivision or land development plans proposed to
be submitted in stages at final plan, a drawing delineating the proposed stages
and indicating the order of submittal and schedule of submittal of the stages.
Staging of sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage facilities and the location
of any temporary street turnarounds shall also be indicated;
      (81)   Schematic architectural drawings of proposed townhouses, apartment
buildings and commercial and industrial buildings, including building
orientation;
      (82)   Proposed driveway locations and evidence that the standards for
driveways established in this chapter (§
153.119(E)) and other applicable borough ordinances can be met;
      (83)   A preliminary centerline stakeout of proposed roads so that an on-
site road alignment evaluation may be conducted;
      (84)   The results of tests at proposed road locations which shall
indicate the suitability of the sites for road construction;
      (85)   Impact studies as required by §
153.132;
      (86)   Landscape plan, including the following:
         (a)   Locations of treelines and existing forested areas;
         (b)   Locations of individual mature trees with truck diameters
greater than six inches measured at a height of three feet above the
surrounding ground level, other than trees within wooded areas and treelines;
         (c)   Any proposed evergreen screening, buffer yards or earth berm
whether or not required by the borough zoning ordinance;
         (d)   Areas of existing mature woods that are to be protected and
preserved or removed, see §
153.123;
         (e)   Types, sizes and locations of any required trees, paved area
landscaping and any other major proposed landscaping;
         (f)   Any proposed fencing, including height and type, and/or
landscaping around any stormwater detention/retention basin;
         (g)   Where any open excavation, quarry or mine hole has or will have
a depth of ten feet or more and a slope of more than 30 degrees, there shall be
substantial fence with a minimum height of eight feet, approved by the Borough
Council, with suitable gates where necessary, effectively blocking access to
the area in which such excavation is or will be located. Such fence shall be
located no less than 50 feet from the edge of excavation, quarry or mine hole.
All fencing required by this section shall be screened from view of nearby
residential uses or residential zoning districts; and
         (h)   View easements. Any scenic viewshed potentially impacted by the
development.
      (87)   Copy of any information submitted to PennDOT and any
correspondence from PennDOT regarding the proposed access to state roads;
      (88)   A list of any waivers requested from this chapter;
      (89)   A list of any zoning variances, special exceptions or conditional
uses granted by the Borough Zoning Hearing Board or Borough Council. Any relief
granted from the zoning ordinance shall be noted on the plan indicating the
applicable zoning ordinance section numbers, the date the relief was granted,
and any conditions imposed; and
      (90)   (a)   If commercial and industrial operations, are proposed, a
written description of any proposed commercial, industrial or storage operation
in sufficient detail to indicate any noise, glare, smoke and fumes and to allow
a general determination of possible fire or other hazards from the use of toxic
or hazardous substances or other public health or safety hazards.
         (b)   Written estimate of the amount, direction and times of truck
traffic that is expected shall be provided.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
FINAL PLAN
§ 153.080 SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Within 12 months after approval of the preliminary plan by the Borough
Council, the developer or his or her agent shall submit a final plan and all
required supplementary data to the Borough Secretary unless an extension of
time is granted by the Borough Council. If an extension is not granted, failure
to submit the final plan within 12 months will result in any plan submitted
after 12 months being considered as a new preliminary plan.
   (B)   The final plan shall be submitted to the Borough Secretary no later
than 28 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Borough Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.081 OFFICIAL SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Official submission:
      (1)   Submission of five copies of the completed application for review
of final plan (Form 3, available at the borough offices);
      (2)   Submission of 11 prints on paper of the final plan which shall
comply with the requirements of §
153.088;
      (3)   Submission of seven copies of all other supplementary data and
plans as outlined in §
153.088(F);
      (4)   Payment of the filing fee of the borough, and the County Planning
Commission if applicable;
      (5)   Submission of evidence of approval of an erosion and sediment
control plan by the County Conservation District;
      (6)   Submission of written evidence that the final plan has been
submitted to and approved by the electric, telephone, cable television and gas
companies which will serve the subdivision or land development;
      (7)   A current and updated affidavit that the applicant is the owner or
equitable owner of the land proposed to be developed containing a copy of the
document showing how the applicant has the authority to proceed on behalf of
all claiming any ownership interest therein; and
      (8)   Failure of the developer to submit all items required under this
section, or failure of the final plan to comply with the requirements of §
153.088, shall be grounds for the Borough Council to refuse to accept the final
plan for review.
   (B)   The Borough Council may permit the developer to submit a final plan in
sections in accordance with the schedule provided for in §
153.061(F) and (G), subject to such requirements or guarantees as to
improvements in future sections as it finds essential for the protection of any
finally approved section of the development.
   (C)   The final plan shall conform to the approved preliminary plan,
including all modifications required by the Borough Council in its approval of
the preliminary plan. Failure to conform to the approved preliminary plan and
to comply with all conditions shall require the Borough Council to disapprove
the final plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.082 OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The application for review of the final plan shall not be considered
as officially accepted for review, nor officially submitted to the borough, nor
officially filed with the borough until the date on which the Borough Secretary
sends by certified or registered mail to the developer or his or her agent a
final plan receipt and a letter indicating the Borough Planning Commission’s
intent to review the application.
   (B)   If the prerequisites of this chapter are not met the Borough Secretary
may indicate in writing to the applicant the borough’s intention to not review
the final plan and request the plan be resubmitted to comply with the
prerequisites to review of final plan. The Borough Secretary shall indicate in
what ways the plan did not comply with the requirements of this chapter if the
Planning Commission declines to review the plan as submitted.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.083 DISTRIBUTION.
   The Borough Secretary shall distribute the accepted final plan and
supplementary information as follows:
   (A)   To the Secretary of the Borough Planning Commission:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of final plan;
      (2)   One copy of the plan; and
      (3)   One copy of all supplementary data and plans.
   (B)   To the Borough Zoning Officer:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of final plan; and
      (2)   One copy of the plan.
   (C)   To the Borough Engineer:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of final plan;
      (2)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (3)   Two copies of all supplementary data and plans.
   (D)   To the municipal authority, if such exists:
      (1)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (2)   Two copies of all supplementary data and plans.
   (E)   To the County Planning, Commission, in the case of a subdivision
submitted under §§
153.100 through
153.103:
      (1)   One copy of application for review of final plan;
      (2)   The required filing fee and a letter requesting review;
      (3)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (4)   One copy of all supplementary data and plans.
   (F)   To the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Two copies of the plan; and
      (2)   Two copies of any material required by the Sewage Enforcement
Officer or State Department of Environmental Protection.
   (G)   To be retained by the Borough Secretary:
      (1)   One copy of the plan;
      (2)   One copy of application for review of final plan; and
      (3)   One copy of all supplementary data and plans.
   (H)   To be retained by the Borough Secretary for use at borough meetings
where the final plan will be reviewed: two copies of the plan; and
   (I)   To the Borough Fire Marshal: one copy of the plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.084 REVIEW BY BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a final plan has been officially accepted for review by the
Borough Planning Commission, it may be reviewed by the Borough Planning
Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided however, that if
such submission has occurred less than 28 days prior to the scheduled meeting,
the Planning Commission may decline to review plan at said meeting and review
the plan at the following regularly scheduled or special meeting for that
purpose.
   (B)   No official action should be taken by the Borough Planning Commission
with respect to a final plan until the Commission has received written reports
regarding the plan from the County Planning Commission and where applicable,
State DEP and the State Department of Transportation. If no report is received
from the County Planning Commission within 30 days after it received a request
to review the final plan, the Borough Planning Commission shall proceed to take
official action on the plan in question.
   (C)   The Borough Engineer shall review each final plan to ascertain whether
the plan meets the requirements of this chapter and any other applicable
ordinances and shall submit a report to the Borough Planning Commission on the
plan.
   (D)   The Borough Zoning Officer shall review each final plan to ascertain
whether the plan meets the requirements of the borough zoning ordinance and
shall submit a report to the Borough Planning Commission on the plan.
   (E)   When reviewing a final plan, the Borough Planning Commission should
consider, in addition to its own comments, written reports regarding the plan
from the following:
      (1)   The Borough Engineer;
      (2)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (3)   The County Planning Commission;
      (4)   The Borough Fire Marshal;
      (5)   If on-site water supply and/or sanitary sewage disposal is proposed
for the subdivision, the report of the State Department of Environmental
Protection on the suitability of the land for the proposed facilities and/or
the report of the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer; and
      (6)   When the property being subdivided abuts a state route or when
preliminary highway design would affect the property, the report of the State
Department of Transportation regarding the effect the proposed plan has on
existing or proposed state highway facilities.
   (F)   Within 15 calendar days after the final meeting at which the final
plan is reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission, the Borough Planning
Commission shall send written notice to the following of the action taken by
the Borough Planning Commission regarding the final plan:
      (1)   The Borough Secretary;
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Borough Council;
      (3)   The Borough Engineer;
      (4)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (5)   The County Planning Commission;
      (6)   The applicant or his or her agent; and
      (7)   The appropriate municipal authority.
   (G)   When the decision on the final plan by the Borough Planning Commission
is favorable in that all of the requirements of this chapter are met, the
written notice and minutes of the meeting at which the plan was reviewed by the
Borough Planning Commission shall note such fact.
   (H)   When the review of the final plan, by the Borough Planning Commission,
is favorable or unfavorable because the requirements of this chapter or any
applicable ordinance or law have not been met or because the Borough Planning
Commission deems modifications to the plan desirable or necessary, the
recommended modifications to the plan and/or the specific provisions of this
chapter or any applicable ordinance or law which have not been met shall be
noted in the written notice and in the minutes of this meeting at which the
plan was reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.085 REVIEW BY BOROUGH COUNCIL.
   (A)   After a final plan has been reviewed by the Borough Planning
Commission and the comments of the Planning Commission regarding the plan have
been forwarded to the Borough Council, the plan shall be reviewed by the
Borough Council at one or more regularly scheduled or special meetings called
for that purpose by the Borough Council.
   (B)   If the final plan has been forwarded to the County Planning Commission
for review, no official action shall be taken by the Borough Council with
respect to the plan until the borough has received the written report of the
County Planning Commission, provided that the report is received within 30 days
from the date the plan was forwarded to the County Planning Commission for
review. If such report is not received within 30 days, the Borough Council may
proceed to take action on the plan without consideration of comments from the
County Planning Commission.
   (C)   Before acting on a final plan, the Borough Council may hold a public
hearing thereon after public notice.
   (D)   Within 15 days after the final meeting at which the plan is reviewed,
the Borough Secretary shall notify in writing the following of the action taken
by the Borough Council regarding the final plan:
      (1)   The Borough Planning Commission;
      (2)   The Borough Engineer;
      (3)   The Borough Zoning Officer;
      (4)   The County Planning Commission;
      (5)   The applicant or his or her agent;
      (6)   The engineer, surveyor or land planner of the applicant;
      (7)   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer, is on-site sewage disposal
is proposed; and
      (8)   The appropriate municipal authority.
   (E)   When the application is not approved in terms as filed, the decision
shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the
provisions of the chapter or any applicable ordinance or law relied upon.
   (F)   A final plan shall not be recorded, nor shall any zoning or building
permit be issued, until the requirements of §
153.086 have been met.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.086 COMPLETION AND GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements agreement. No final plan shall be endorsed
and released for recording by the Borough Council unless a subdivision
improvements agreement in a form acceptable to the Borough Council and Borough
Solicitor is executed. A list of all improvements required by this chapter
pursuant to Form 4 (available to the borough offices) shall be included within
the agreement.
   (B)   Completion and guarantee of improvements.
      (1)   No final plan shall be endorsed by the Borough Council unless all
the improvements required by this chapter and the subdivision improvements
agreement have been installed, inspected and approved, in accordance with this
chapter and said agreement.
      (2)   In lieu of the completion of any improvements as stated in division
(B)(1) above, prior to endorsement of the plan, the developer shall deposit
with the borough financial security in an amount sufficient to cover the cost
of all improvements or common amenities required by this chapter and the
subdivision improvements agreement and the cost of preparing as-built drawings
of those improvements. The financial security may be in the form of an
irrevocable letter of credit or restrictive or escrow account in a federal or
commonwealth chartered lending institution or other type of financial security
which the borough approves. The financial security shall guarantee the
completion of all required improvements on or before the date fixed in the
formal action of approval or accompanying agreement for completion of the
improvements.
      (3)   When requested by the developer, in order to facilitate financing,
the Borough Council shall furnish the developer with a signed copy of a
resolution indicating approval of the final plan contingent upon the developer
obtaining satisfactory financial security. The final plan shall not be signed
nor recorded until the subdivision improvements agreement is executed.
      (4)   The resolution or letter of contingent approval shall expire and be
deemed to be revoked if the subdivision improvements agreement is not executed
within 90 days unless a written extension is granted by the Borough Council.
      (5)   The amount of the financial security to be posted for the
completion of the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of
completion estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion
by the developer. Annually, the borough may adjust the amount of the financial
security by comparing the actual cost of the improvements which have been
completed and the estimated cost for the completion of the remaining
improvements as of the expiration of the ninetieth day after either the
original date scheduled for completion or a rescheduled date of completion.
Subsequent to said adjustment, the borough may require the developer to post
additional security in order to assure that the financial security equals said
110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the developer in accordance
with this division (B)(5).
      (6)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of completion of the required improvements, submitted by
the applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as
such in the commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a fair and
reasonable estimate of such cost. Such estimate shall be submitted to the
borough no less than 14 days prior to a meeting of the Borough Council. The
borough, upon the recommendation of the Borough Engineer, may refuse to accept
such estimate for good cause shown. If the applicant or developer and the
borough are unable to agree upon an estimate, then the estimate shall be
recalculated and recertified by another professional engineer licensed as such
in the commonwealth and chosen mutually by the borough and the applicant or
developer. The estimate certified by the third engineer shall be presumed fair
and reasonable, and shall be the final estimate. In the event that a third
engineer is so chosen, fees for the services of said engineer shall be paid
equally by the borough and the applicant or developer.
      (7)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date of
posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of
completing the required improvements as re-established on or about the
expiration of the initial one-year period.
      (8)   The party posting the financial security may request the Borough
Council to release, from time to time, such portions of the financial security
necessary for payment to the contractors performing the work. Any such requests
shall be in writing addressed to the Borough Council, and the Borough Council
shall have 45 days from receipt of such requests within which to allow the
Borough Engineer to certify, in writing, to the Borough Council that such
portion of the work upon the improvements has been completed in accordance with
the approved subdivision or land development plan. Upon such certification, the
Borough Council shall authorize release by the bonding company or lending
institution of an amount as estimated by the Borough Engineer fairly
representing the value of the improvements completed. If the Borough Council
fails to act within said 45-day period, the Borough Council shall be deemed to
have approved the release of funds as requested. The Borough Council may, prior
to final release at the time of completion and certification by its engineer,
require retention of 10% of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
      (9)   In the case where development is projected over a period of years,
the borough may authorize submission of final plans by sections or stages of
development, subject to such requirements or guarantees as to improvements in
the future sections or stages of development as it finds essential for the
protection and proper development of any finally approved section of the
development.
      (10)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both, along with
apparatus or facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the
jurisdiction and pursuant to the rules and regulations of a public utility or
municipal authority separate and distinct from the borough, financial security
to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority and shall not be included within the financial security as otherwise
required by this section.
   (C)   Remedies to effect completion of improvements. In the event that any
improvements which are required by this chapter have not been installed as
provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final plan, the borough
may enforce any corporate bond or other security by appropriate legal and
equitable remedies. If the proceeds of such bond or other security are
insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections to
all the improvements covered by said security, the borough may, at its option,
install part of such improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land
development and may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover
the monies necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements. All of the
proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any legal or equitable
action brought against the developer, or both, shall be used solely for the
installation of the improvements covered by such security.
   (D)   Release of performance guarantee.
      (1)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall notify the Borough Council, by
certified or registered mail, of the completion of the improvements and shall
send a copy of the notice to the Borough Engineer.
      (2)   The Borough Council shall within ten days after receipt of notice
of completion of improvements direct and authorize the Borough Engineer to
inspect the improvements. The Borough Engineer shall then submit a written
report regarding the improvements to the Borough Council and promptly mail a
copy of the report to the developer by certified or registered mail.
      (3)   The report shall be made and mailed by the Borough Engineer within
30 days after receipt of authorization from the Borough Council. The report
shall be detailed and shall indicate approval or rejection of the improvements,
either in whole or in part. If the improvements or any portion thereof shall
not be approved or shall be rejected by the Borough Engineer, the report shall
contain a statement of reasons for such non-approval or rejection.
      (4)   The Borough Council shall notify the developer within 15 days of
receipt of the Engineer’s report, in writing by certified or registered mail of
its action.
      (5)   If any portion of the improvements shall not be approved or shall
be rejected by the Borough Council, the developer shall proceed to complete the
improvements, and upon completion the same procedure of notification as
outlined above shall be followed.
      (6)   When completed improvements have been approved by the borough, the
performance guarantee shall be reduced by no more than the amount which was
estimated in the subdivision improvements agreement for the approved
improvements.
   (E)   Preparation of as-built plans.
      (1)   As-built plans for all improvements within the subdivision or land
development listed in the subdivision improvements agreement shall be submitted
to the borough within 30 days after inspection and approval of the improvements
by the borough and prior to the release of the performance guarantee and
acceptance of any such improvements by the borough. Plans shall be in
accordance with the requirements of §
153.088, be Mylars in reproducible form, and certified by the developer to be
in accordance with actual construction. The developer shall also supply the
plans in electronic format acceptable to the borough. The developer is
responsible for the preparation of such plans.
      (2)   If any information relating to potential lot owners shown on the
recorded final plan shall have been changed, such as lot boundaries, easements
and maintenance responsibilities, a revised subdivision and/or land development
plan shall be filed with the borough in accordance with the procedures of this
chapter.
   (F)   Maintenance guarantee. Where the Borough Council accept dedication of
all or some of the required improvements within a subdivision or land
development following completion, the Borough Council may require the posting
of financial security to secure structural integrity of said improvements as
well as the functioning of said improvements in accordance with the design
specifications as depicted on the final plan for a term not to exceed 18 months
from the date of acceptance of dedication. The financial security shall be of
the same type as permitted for installation of improvements and the amount of
the financial security shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation
of the improvements.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.087 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Endorsement by Borough Council. After the procedures required by this
chapter have been completed and the Borough Council finally approves a plan,
the Borough Council shall endorse the final plan for record.
      (1)   The endorsed plans shall be clear and legible black-on-white prints
on material acceptable to the Recorder of Deeds.
      (2)   Before any plan is released for recording, a copy of any permits
required by the State Departments of Environmental Resources and Transportation
shall be submitted to the borough.
      (3)   The borough shall receive one reproducible reproduction of the
final plan as approved and recorded within 15 days of recording. The
reproducible shall contain the Recorder of Deeds information as to deed book
volume, page number and date of recording.
      (4)   All streets, parks or other improvements shown on the final plan
shall be deemed to be private until such time as they have been offered for
dedication to the borough and accepted by Borough Council. The acceptance of
any improvements shall be by a separate action of the Borough Council and shall
not be affected by approval of a subdivision or land development plan.
      (5)   The developer shall agree with the borough to tender, if requested,
a deed of dedication for any and all public improvements, including easements.
Upon completion of any public improvements shown on an approved subdivision or
land development plan and within 90 days after approval of such public
improvements, as herein provided, the borough may require that the developer
offer such public improvements for dedication. In such a case, the developer
shall prepare a deed of dedication and forward same to the borough for review
by the Borough Solicitor. The borough may require that the developer supply a
title insurance policy from a reputable company before any property is accepted
by the borough.
   (B)   Filing With Recorder of Deeds.
      (1)   Upon approval of a final plan by the Borough Council, the developer
shall within 90 days of such final approval record the plan in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds. The Recorder of Deeds shall not accept any plan for
recording unless the plan contains the endorsement of the Borough Council and
official notification of review by the County Planning Commission. If the
developer fails to record the plan within such period, the approval action of
the Borough Council shall be null and void.
      (2)   All final plan sheets which contain restrictive notes, lot
boundaries, easements, maintenance responsibilities, other lot owner
responsibilities, and such other information relating to potential lot owners
shall be recorded.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.088 FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one
inch equals 20 feet or one inch equals 50 feet with all dimensions shown in
feet and hundredths of a foot, except that if the average size of the proposed
lots is five acres or larger, the plan may be drawn to a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall be made on sheets 18 inches by 24 inches,
24 inches by 36 inches or 36 inches by 48 inches.
   (C)   If the final plan requires more than one sheet, a key diagram showing
the relative location of all the sheets shall be drawn on each sheet. In
addition, a match line shall be drawn on each sheet and the developer shall
indicate along each match line what sheet is adjoined at that match line.
   (D)   A plan index, listing the title, number, latest revision and date
revised of each plan included in the submission, shall be included on the lead
plan intended for eventual recording.
   (E)   The final plan an shall show:
      (1)   Name of the proposed subdivision or land development shall be shown
on each sheet;
      (2)   Name of the borough;
      (3)   The words “Final Plan” shall appear on each drawing;
      (4)   North point;
      (5)   Written and graphic scale;
      (6)   Date of plan, including the month, day and year that the original
drawing was completed and in the case of revised drawings the month, day and
year that the original drawing was revised and a description of each revision;
      (7)   Name and address of the record owner;
      (8)   Name and address of the developer;
      (9)   Source of title to the tract, including date and grantor;
      (10)   The tax property identification number as found on the county tax
maps;
      (11)   A copy of the deed(s) for the tract;
      (12)   A statement describing all previous subdivisions or land
developments having occurred on the tract;
      (13)   Name, address and seal of each registered engineer, surveyor,
architect or landscape architect responsible for the plan;
      (14)   The names of any abutting subdivisions and land developments and
the book and page numbers where recorded;
      (15)   The names of any adjacent unplatted land and the book and page
numbers where recorded;
      (16)   A location map for the purpose of locating the property being
subdivided or developed drawn at a scale of one inch equals 800 feet, showing
the location of the property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining
property and to all roads, municipal boundaries, recorded subdivision and land
development plans, and recorded but unconstructed streets within 1,000 feet of
the subdivision or land development. A scale, north point and the proposed
street system within the subdivision or land development shall be shown;
      (17)   (a)   The total tract boundary lines of the area being subdivided
or developed, based on field survey, with accurate distances to hundredths of a
foot and bearings to one-quarter of a minute. These boundaries shall be
balanced and closed with an error or closure not to exceed one foot in 10,000
feet; provided however, that the boundary(s) adjoining additional unplatted
land of the developer (for example, between separately submitted final plan
sections) are not required to be based upon field survey, and may be
calculated.
         (b)   The proposed location and elevation (if the elevation is
established) of all boundary line (perimeter) monuments shall be indicated,
along with a statement of the total area the property being subdivided or
developed. The Borough Council may require perimeter monuments to be set and
elevations established prior to approval of the final plan.
         (c)   The surveyor and/or engineer responsible for the plan shall
certify the accuracy of the survey and the plan in accordance with Appendix II
(certification of accuracy), which is adopted by reference as if set out at
length herein. Plans and surveys shall be prepared in accordance with the
professional engineers registration law.
         (d)   If the developer is going to retain a single parcel with an area
in excess of ten acres and that parcel will not be improved beyond its current
level of improvement, that parcel may be considered residue and may be
identified by deed plotting. If the retained parcel has an area of ten acres or
less, it shall be considered a lot within the subdivision and described to the
accuracy requirements of this chapter.
      (18)   Acreage of the tract being subdivided or developed and acreage of
the residue of the tract;
      (19)   A statement of the type of water and sewer service proposed;
      (20)   Zoning data including all of the following, if applicable:
         (a)   Existing municipal zoning regulations, including district
designations, requirements for lot area, yards, lot coverage and building
height limitations, and any zoning boundary lines traversing the property;
         (b)   Any changes in the existing zoning to be requested;
         (c)   Any zoning regulations, other than district regulations,
governing lot size and/or yard requirements; and
         (d)   Any municipal regulations, other than zoning regulations,
governing lot size and/or yard requirements.
      (21)   Location and elevation of the datum to which elevations refer.
Datum used shall be a known, established benchmark. Sanitary sewer manholes
shall not be used as a datum base;
      (22)   Contour lines at vertical intervals of not more than two feet for
land with average natural slope of 4% or less and at intervals of not more than
five feet for land with average natural slope exceeding 4%. Contour lines shall
be from aerial or field survey;
      (23)   All existing buildings, lot lines, sanitary sewer lines, on-site
sewage disposal systems, water lines, wells, fire hydrants, utility lines,
storm drainage facilities, bridges, railroad tracks and other significant
human-made features within the proposed subdivision or land development;
      (24)   Lot lines of adjacent lots, and approximate locations of any
buildings, common open spaces, detention basins or drainage facilities existing
or approved within 100 feet of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision or
land development;
      (25)   All existing soils types boundaries;
      (26)   Soils characteristics for detention and retention pond areas;
      (27)   Areas of any hydric soils as classified in the county soil survey,
with a notation if none exist, if that is the case;
      (28)   Natural drainage channels, watercourses and water bodies;
      (29)   Tree masses and isolated live trees over one foot in diameter;
      (30)   Quarries, mine holes, rock outcroppings, stone fields, caves and
sinkholes;
      (31)   Areas of 8 to 15% slopes, 15 to 25% slope and areas of over 25%
slope shall each be delineated on the plan by pattern or shading;
      (32)   Areas of carbonate geology;
      (33)   Wetlands shall be accurately shown and shall be encompassed by
bearings and distances, tied to a known property comer. The firm and/or
individual responsible for the wetland delineation shall be identified on the
plan;
      (34)   (a)   One hundred-year floodplains, including delineation of
floodway and flood fringe, established by study of FEMA, with base flood
elevations for the 100-year storm. For those watercourses for which studies
have not been performed by FEMA, calculated 100-year floodplains shall be
established by the developer in accordance with Appendix IV (determination of
floodplains), which is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein.
         (b)   When a subdivision or land development contains a floodplain,
the proposed elevation of roads, building sites and public utilities within or
in the vicinity of the floodplain shall be given.
      (35)   All existing streets and streets recorded but not constructed on
or abutting the tract, including names, existing and ultimate right-of way
widths and lines, and cartway widths and lines;
      (36)   All existing easements and rights-of-way and the purposes for
which they have been established, deed restrictions and covenants;
      (37)   All proposed streets, their location, suggested name, right-of-way
and cartway widths and lines, centerline radii of horizontal curves, intended
ownership, a statement of any conditions governing their use, and suggested
classification (e.g., collector). The designation of minor, collector and
arterial streets is subject to the approval of the Borough Council. Streets to
be offered for dedication shall be indicated. For streets that will not be
dedicated, the arrangements to be made for the ownership and maintenance of
those streets shall be given;
      (38)   For the cartway edges or curb lines and right-of-way lines of all
recorded (except those which are to be vacated) and proposed streets, and for
the existing and ultimate right-of-way lines of all existing streets within or
abutting the property to be subdivided, the length, in feet to the second
decimal point, of all straight lines and the length of arc, radius, delta angle
(in degrees, minutes and seconds) of all curved lines;
      (39)   Location, width and purpose of all proposed easements and rights-
of-way. Bearings and distances shall be provided for easements when not
parallel to lot or street lines;
      (40)   Building setback lines along each street, lot line and utility
line and all proposed structures;
      (41)   All lot lines shall be shown and shall be completely dimensioned
in feet to the second decimal point, if straight, and if curved, with central
angle in degrees, minutes and seconds and length of arc and radius. Lot line
distances to street right-of-way lines shall be given. Bearings to one-quarter
of a minute shall be shown for all lot lines and each lot shall be balanced to
an accuracy of one foot in 10,000 feet. As an alternative to bearings for each
lot line, angles at the intersection of all lot lines may be given;
      (42)   The area of each lot in square feet or acres, exclusive of street
rights-of-way;
      (43)   Lot numbers, numbered consecutively;
      (44)   A statement of the total number of lots and parcels;
      (45)   Intended use of lots;
      (46)   Location, size and material of all water mains, with connections
to existing facilities, fire hydrants, blow-offs, valves, storage tanks and
water sources;
      (47)   Location, size, material, pipe length, invert elevation and grade
of all sanitary sewers, with connections to existing facilities, location and
construction details of all manholes, design of pumping stations, force mains,
and sewage treatment plants, with type and degree of treatment proposed and
size and capacity of treatment facilities. The separation distance from water
lines and locations of concrete encasements shall be shown;
      (48)   Location, size, material, pipe length, invert elevation and grade
of all storm drainage facilities, with connections to existing facilities;
location, slope, velocity within and cross-section for all drainage swales; the
location and construction details of all manholes, inlets, endwalls, headwalls,
culverts and junction boxes; the location and design of all detention
facilities and other drainage facilities; the size, depth, length and width of
rip rap aprons, with design calculations;
      (49)   Location, size and proposed use and design of all parks,
playgrounds, recreation areas, open space, public buildings, and other public
uses. Areas to be offered for dedication to the borough shall be noted. Areas
to be reserved for public use but not be dedicated shall be noted, any
conditions governing such areas shall be listed, and the arrangements to be
made for the ownership, administration and maintenance of these areas shall be
given;
      (50)   Provisions for pedestrian and other non-vehicular or bicycling
circulation throughout the tract;
      (51)   Typical street cross-section drawing(s) of each proposed street,
including right-of-way and cartway widths, construction details of streets,
shoulders, curbs and sidewalks and cross-slopes of streets, shoulders,
sidewalks and planting strips. The typical location, size and depth of any
underground utilities shall be indicated;
      (52)   Profiles along the centerline of each proposed street. Such
profiles shall show at least the following information, properly labeled:
         (a)   Existing profile along both cartway edges or at the top of
curbs;
         (b)   Proposed finished grade at the top of both curbs or along both
cartway edges;
         (c)   The length of all vertical curves;
         (d)   Existing and proposed sanitary sewer mains and manholes, with
top and invert elevation data;
         (e)   Existing and proposed storm sewer mains, inlets, manholes and
culverts, with top and invert elevation data;
         (f)   Existing and proposed water mains when they cross other
utilities; and
         (g)   Station numbers.
      (53)   The profiles shall be drawn at one of the following sets of scales
or any combination thereof:
         (a)   One inch equals ten feet horizontal and one inch equals one foot
vertical;
         (b)   One inch equals 20 feet horizontal and one inch equals two feet
vertical;
         (c)   One inch equals 40 feet horizontal and one inch equals four feet
vertical; or
         (d)   One inch equals 50 feet horizontal and one inch equals five feet
vertical.
      (54)   Designs of any bridges or culverts. Such designs shall meet all
applicable requirements of the State Department of Transportation and the State
Department of Environmental Protection. Capacity/loading calculations shall be
submitted;
      (55)   The location of all townhouses, apartment buildings and/or
condominium buildings and parking facilities to serve the same;
      (56)   A certificate of ownership, acknowledgment of plan and offer of
dedication shall be lettered on the plan, using the form specified in Appendix
I (certification of ownership, acknowledgment of plan and offer of dedication),
which is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein, and shall be
signed by the owner(s) of the property and be notarized;
      (57)   Certificate for approval of the plan by the Borough Planning
Commission, using the form specified in Appendix III (certificate of municipal
approval), which is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein;
      (58)   Certificate for approval of the plan by the Borough Council using
the form specified in Appendix III (certificate of municipal approval), which
is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein;
      (59)   A blank space in which the appropriate stamp and notation of the
County Planning Commission may be applied;
      (60)   A blank space in order that the Recorder of Deeds may acknowledge
receipt and recording of the plan when it is presented;
      (61)   In the case of land development plans, the following additional
information shall be shown:
         (a)   The location, dimensions and use of all buildings;
         (b)   Location and grade of all parking areas and access drives, the
size and number of parking spaces and the width of aisles and access drives;
         (c)   The location, number and dimensions of off-street loading areas;
         (d)   Provisions for landscaping of the tract;
         (e)   Provisions for lighting of the tract;
         (f)   Provisions for traffic control;
         (g)   The location of refuse collection areas and provisions to be
made for refuse collection;
         (h)   A table showing extent of compliance with the area, yard, height
and coverage regulations of the borough zoning ordinance;
         (i)   Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking
requirements of the zoning ordinance; and
         (j)   A grading plan for the tract showing existing and proposed
contour lines at the interval required by division (E)(22) above. Lowest floor
elevations for proposed buildings shall be indicated;
      (62)   Location of school bus stop shelters or pads;
      (63)   Restrictive covenants and deed restrictions applicable to the
development, whether proposed or previously existing;
      (64)   Design speed of all proposed streets;
      (65)   Sight distance calculations for vertical curves in streets (see §
153.116(G));
      (66)   Sight distance calculations at street intersections (see §
153.116(I));
      (67)   Horizontal curve radii of cartway and right-of-way lines at street
intersections. The cartway tie-in to existing street cartways shall be
indicated;
      (68)   On the subdivision plan or a plan view drawing of streets, station
numbers corresponding to the street profiles;
      (69)   Guide rail locations and construction detail, (see §
153.117);
      (70)   Clear sight triangles at street intersections, (see §
153.116(I));
      (71)   Proposed ownership and maintenance of storm drainage facilities;
      (72)   A typical treatment of the construction of driveways and the
handling of storm drainage where driveways will intersect streets. The borough
may require driveway culverts to be designed and such size noted on the plan
(see §
153.119(E) and Ord. 50);
      (73)   Location and type of traffic-control devices;
      (74)   Whenever a developer proposes to establish a street which is not
offered for dedication to public use, the Borough Council may require the
developer to submit, and also to record with the plan, a copy of an agreement
made with the borough on behalf of his or her heirs and assigns, which shall
establish the conditions under which the street may later be offered for
dedication;
      (75)   (a)   If the subdivision or land development proposes a new street
or driveway intersection with a state route, a copy of the highway occupancy
permit for such intersection. In lieu of a permit for a driveway intersection,
the Borough Council may permit the following note to be placed on the plan:
      “A highway occupancy permit is required pursuant to § 420 of the Act of
June 1, 1945 (P.L. 1242, No. 428), known as the State Highway Law, being 36
P.S. Ch. 2, before a driveway access to a state highway is permitted. Access to
the state highway shall only be as authorized by a highway occupancy permit.”
         (b)   The approval of this subdivision/land development plan shall in
no way imply that a state highway permit can be acquired or that this
municipality will support, encourage or not oppose the granting of such a
permit. It is possible that access to the property from a state highway will
not be permitted by the commonwealth and the property therefore cannot be used
for the purpose intended by any purchaser. Purchasers are accordingly warned
and should govern themselves accordingly, acquiring state and local highway
occupancy permits before purchasing any premises.
         (c)   Any conditions listed in a permit shall be noted on the plan.
      (76)   A copy of all permits required from the State Department of
Environmental Protection including watercourses, bodies of water or water
obstructions;
      (77)   An erosion and sediment control plan for the tract, in accordance
with §
153.123;
      (78)   A landscape plan showing the number, location, size and species of
all trees and shrubs that will be planted within the subdivision or land
development;
      (79)   Utility easements and rights-of-way shall be shown on the plan;
      (80)   A final grading plan showing existing and proposed contour lines
at the interval required by division (E)(22) above shall be submitted. Lowest
floor elevations for proposed buildings shall be indicated;
      (81)   Copies of all approvals required for sanitary sewer and water
systems shall be received prior to approval of the final plan, including
written confirmation that the appropriate agencies can and will serve the
proposed development;
      (82)   A lighting plan showing the location of poles, the type and height
of poles, and the type and brightness of lighting fixtures shall be submitted.
The type of fixture to be placed at each location shall be noted;
      (83)   Street names in accordance with §
153.116(K);
      (84)   All information required pursuant to §
153.119(B)(3), regarding access from adjoining municipalities;
      (85)   When the tract contains wetlands, a copy of all required permits
or permit waivers from State DEP and/or Army Corps of Engineers;
      (86)   Copies of approvals required by any other governmental regulatory
agencies concerning matters under their jurisdiction;
      (87)   A copy of any agreements incident to the construction, operation,
maintenance and/or dedication of facilities for public use;
      (88)   A note to be placed on the plan indicating any area that is to be
offered for dedication, if applicable, and that the conveyance of land
constituting all or part of such offered land shall not constitute the
revocation of the offer and all conveyances shall be under and subject to said
offer;
      (89)   Location of proposed buildings or structures or typical location
of proposed dwellings;
      (90)   Proposed driveway locations and evidence that the standards for
driveways established in this chapter (§
153.119(E)) or other applicable borough ordinances can be met;
      (91)   Location of existing and proposed wells within 100 feet of the
boundaries of the tract, if on-site sewage disposal is proposed;
      (92)   The location of deep probe and soil percolation test holes tied to
a known or proposed property/lot corner by bearing and distance. Each approved
on-site sewage disposal test site shall be enclosed in an easement of
sufficient size to allow the construction of the absorption area. In addition
the plan shall contain restrictive notes prohibiting the disturbance of these
areas for any use except for the construction and maintenance of the absorption
area;
      (93)   List of contacts for underground utilities in the area, with
telephone numbers stated on the grading plan;
      (94)   Existing and proposed street lighting (or notation stating that
none is proposed), including types of poles, spacing of poles and intensity of
lamps;
      (95)   A note stating that construction will be in accordance with
borough codes, ordinances, standards and specifications;
      (96)   Protective covenant shall be placed on the land providing for:
         (a)   Clear sight triangle easements; and
         (b)   All needed utility, drainage, maintenance, pedestrian, open
space or other easements.
      (97)   Required plan notations: the following wording shall be required
to be placed on any final subdivision or land development plan, as applicable.
         (a)    “Well and sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in
accordance with standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.”
         (b)   “Individual owners of lots must receive approval from the
Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer for a sewage permit prior to undertaking the
construction of an on-lot sewage disposal system or building that will need to
be served by such a system.”
         (c)   “The Planning Commission and Borough Council have not passed
upon the feasibility of any individual lot or location within a lot being able
to sustain any type of well or sewage system.”
         (d)   “All on-site sewage disposal easements shall remain free and
clear of all encroachments including, but not limited to, sheds, buildings or
other structures. No regrading without the prior written permission of the
Borough of Topton Council shall be permitted.”
         (e)   “The borough shall have the right, but not the duty, to replace
or maintain any drainage facilities shown within the easement(s) provided on
the lot(s) at the lot owner’s expense.”
         (f)   “All drainage easements shall remain free and clear of all
impediments including, but not limited to, sheds, fences, trees, shrubs or
other plantings or structures. No regrading without the prior written
permission of the Borough of Topton Council shall be permitted.”
         (g)   “Representatives of Borough of Topton shall have the right to
inspect the drainage facilities located on the lot(s) from time to time as
deemed necessary.”
   (F)   The following additional information shall be submitted with the final
plan if not submitted with a preliminary plan:
      (1)   A copy of any “supporting documentation and additional information”
that was required for the preliminary plan and that needed to be adjusted or
revised to reflect changes between the preliminary and final plan;
      (2)   In the case of a proposed revision of a FEMA mapped floodplain, a
letter of approval of such revision from FEMA;
      (3)   A plan for the surface drainage of the tract, including stormwater
runoff calculations and the proposed method of accommodating the anticipated
runoff. Stormwater calculations shall be made and drainage facilities designed
in accordance with this chapter, the borough stormwater management ordinance
and the Sacony Creek Watershed Stormwater Management ordinance as applicable;
      (4)   An approval letter from the County Conservation District for the
erosion and sedimentation control plan;
      (5)   A traffic impact study when required by §
153.132(B);
      (6)   (a)   Habitats of threatened and endangered species of special
concern in the state within the tract, as established by the State Biological
Survey and/or State Natural Diversity Inventory; and
         (b)   If such habitats exist on the tract, the measures proposed to
protect the habitats shall be indicated.
      (7)   All historic and archaeological resources which have been
identified and/or inventoried by the borough, the county, the County Planning
Commission and/or the State Historical and Museum Commission and/or are listed
in the National Register of Historic Buildings and Places located within the
tract or within 50 feet of the tract;
      (8)   Where the developer proposes to locate a street, driveway or other
improvement within a portion of a utility right-of-way, or to relocate an
existing utility line, an agreement from the appropriate utility company giving
permission to locate within the right-of-way or relocate the existing line;
      (9)   Schematic architectural drawings of proposed townhouses, apartment
buildings, and commercial and industrial buildings, including building
orientation;
      (10)   Impact studies as required by §
153.132;
      (11)   When on-site sewage disposal is proposed, final documentation of
the approval of the tract for on-site sewage disposal;
      (12)   The disposition of solid waste generated within the proposed
subdivision or land development;
      (13)   Landscape plan, including the following:
         (a)   Locations of treelines and existing forested areas;
         (b)   Locations of individual mature trees with truck diameters
greater than six inches measured at a height of three feet above the
surrounding ground level, other than trees within wooded areas and treelines;
         (c)   Any proposed evergreen screening, buffer yards or earth berming
(if required by the borough zoning ordinance);
         (d)   Areas of existing mature woods that are to be protected and
preserved or removed, see §
153.124;
         (e)   Types, sizes and locations of any required trees, paved area
landscaping and any other major proposed landscaping;
         (f)   Any proposed fencing, including height and type, and/or
landscaping around any stormwater detention/retention basin;
         (g)   Where any open excavation has or will have a depth of ten feet
or more and a slope of more than 30 degrees, there shall be substantial fence,
approved by the Borough Council, with suitable gates where necessary,
effectively blocking access to the area in which such excavation is or will be
located. Such fence shall be located no less than 50 feet from the edge of
excavation. All fencing required by this section shall be screened from view of
nearby residential uses or residential zoning districts; and
         (h)   View easements: any scenic viewshed potentially impacted by the
development;
      (14)   Copy of any information submitted to PennDOT and any
correspondence from PennDOT regarding the proposed access to state roads;
      (15)   A list of any modifications or waivers requested to this chapter;
      (16)   A list of any zoning variances, special exceptions, conditional
uses or other relief granted by the Borough Zoning Hearing Board or Borough
Council. Any relief granted from the zoning ordinance shall be noted on the
plan indicating the applicable zoning ordinance section number and the date the
relief was granted, and any conditions imposed;
      (17)   If commercial or industrial operations, are proposed, a written
description of any proposed commercial, industrial or storage operation in
sufficient detail to indicate any noise, glare, smoke, fumes and nuisances to
allow a general determination of possible fire or other hazards from the use of
toxic or hazardous substances or other public health or safety hazards. Written
estimate of the amount, direction and times of truck traffic that is expected
shall be provided; and
      (18)   A development schedule stating the approximate date when
construction can be expected to begin and be completed.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.089 SOIL PERCOLATION TEST REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Soil percolation tests shall be performed for all subdivisions in
which buildings at the time of construction will not be connected to an
operating public or community sanitary sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Soil percolation tests shall be made in accordance with the procedure
required by the State Department of Environmental Protection and the Borough
Sewage Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   (1)   Soil percolation tests shall be performed at or near the site of
proposed on-site sanitary sewage disposal facilities. At least one test shall
be performed on each lot within the subdivision.
      (2)   If the soil percolation tests are performed at a site, which the
borough believes is not a feasible location for an on-site system given the
proposed lot and street layout, topography and intended use of the lot, the
borough may require soil percolation tests to be performed at a location that
it deems feasible.
   (D)   The results of the soil percolation tests shall be analyzed by the
borough, and by the State Department of Environmental Protection as necessary,
and the final plan lot layout shall be based on this analysis. If the analysis
of the soil percolation test results reveals that the soil is unsuitable for
the intended use at the lot size(s) originally proposed, the borough may
require that the lot size(s) be increased in accordance with the test results.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
PLANS EXEMPTED FROM STANDARD PROCEDURES
§ 153.100 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   In the case of any subdivision in which:
      (1)   All proposed lots will have frontage on and direct vehicular access
to an existing improved borough or state road;
      (2)   The parcel being subdivided will be divided into a total of not
more than three lots or parcels after the effective date of this chapter; and
      (3)   The lots will be used for only single-family detached dwellings,
the Borough Planning Commission may, at its discretion, permit the applicant to
submit only sketch and final plans.
   (B)   The sketch plan shall contain all information required by §
153.049 and be submitted and reviewed in accordance with §
153.048. The final plan shall contain all information required by §
153.088 and be submitted and reviewed in accordance with §§
153.081 through
153.085. The final plan shall be submitted to the County Planning Commission
for review. The Borough Council may also require submission to and review by
the County Conservation District and the State Department of Transportation.
Further subdivision from a tract subdivided under this section or subdivision
of a lot or tract created under this section will require a review of plans in
accordance with the standard procedures of this chapter, and this shall be
noted on the plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.101 RESUBDIVISION - REVISED FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Any replatting or resubdivision of land, including changes to recorded
plans, shall be considered a subdivision and shall comply with all requirements
of this chapter; however, in those instances where:
      (1)   Only lot lines shown on a recorded plan will be changed;
      (2)   All resultant lots will conform to the borough zoning ordinance and
this chapter;
      (3)   Easements and rights-of-way will not be changed;
      (4)   Street horizontal and vertical alignment will not be changed;
      (5)   Block sizes will not be changed;
      (6)   Utility sizes and locations will not be changed;
      (7)   Open space and recreation areas will not be changed; and
      (8)   The number of lots will not be increased, the Borough Council may
at its discretion permit the developer to submit only a revised final plan to
the borough for review.
   (B)   In addition to all items specified in §
153.088, the plan shall graphically show the lot line changes being made. The
final plan shall be reviewed in accordance with §§
153.081 through
153.085 and shall be submitted to the County Planning Commission for review.
   (C)   If the revision of lot lines would result in the relocation of
driveway access points previously approved by PennDOT, the Borough Council
shall require submission of the revised plan to PennDOT for approval.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.102 AUCTION SALE.
   (A)   In the case of the proposed subdivision of land by process of auction
sale, the following procedure may be used by the developer.
   (B)   The developer shall prepare and submit a preliminary plan in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The preliminary plan shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and in addition contain the following notation:
“This property is intended to be sold by auction on or about _________,
20_____, in whole or in part according to this plan. Sale of lots at such
auction shall be in the form of agreement to purchase, and no actual transfer
of ownership or interest in such lots shall occur until a final plan showing
such subdivision of property is approved by the Borough Council in accordance
with the borough subdivision and land development ordinance and recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds.”
   (D)   After approval of the preliminary plan by the Borough Council, the
auction sale may proceed. After the auction sale the developer shall prepare
and submit a final plan in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.103 LOT ANNEXATION.
   (A)   Where the conveyance, sale or transfer of land from one parcel to an
adjacent parcel is proposed for the sole purpose of increasing lot size, and
not for the purpose of creating a separate new lot or a land development, the
developer may submit only a final plan to the borough. The final plan shall
contain all information required by §
153.088 and be submitted and reviewed in accordance with §§
153.081 through
153.085. Precise bearings and distances from field survey shall be shown for
the parcel being transferred, and evidence shall be submitted that the parcel
from which a parcel is being transferred will not violate or further violate,
as the case may be, any requirement of the borough zoning ordinance or other
borough ordinances or regulations. If development is subsequently proposed for
the parcel which has been increased in size, no building or zoning permit shall
be issued unless all applicable requirements of borough regulations are
complied with.
   (B)   The subdivision plan shall contain a notation that the parcel being
transferred is not to be considered a separate building lot and that it will be
combined in a common deed description with the parcel to which it is being
annexed, and a new deed containing the same should be recorded with the plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.115 APPLICATION AND GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The standards and requirements contained in §§
153.060 through
153.066 and
153.080 through
153.089 are intended as the minimum for the promotion of the public health,
safety and general welfare, and shall be applied as such by the Borough
Planning Commission and Borough Council in reviewing all subdivision and land
development plans.
   (B)   Whenever other borough regulations impose more restrictive standards
and requirements than those contained herein, such other regulations shall
prevail; otherwise, the standards and requirements of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   The layout or arrangement of the subdivision or land development shall
conform to the comprehensive plan, any regulations or maps adopted in
furtherance thereof, and any other official plans of the borough which have
been adopted.
   (D)   The plan of the proposed subdivision or land development shall be
coordinated with existing adjacent development in order to provide for
harmonious development of the area as a whole.
   (E)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided
or developed. Lands subject to hazards to life, health or property such as may
result from fire, flood, disease or other causes shall either be made safe for
the purpose for which such land is proposed to be used, or such land shall be
set aside for uses which shall not endanger life or property or further
aggravate or increase the existing menace.
   (F)   All subdivisions and land developments shall be reviewed to assure
that all such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage,
that all utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and
that adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.116 STREETS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   All design elements of all streets, including horizontal and
vertical alignment, sight distance and super-elevation, are subject to review
and approval by the Borough Council. When reviewing the design of streets, in
addition to the standards in this chapter, the rural design criteria in the
State Department of Transportation Design Manual Part 2, Highway Design, latest
edition, and a Policy on Geometric Design of Rural Highways and Streets, latest
edition, shall be consulted to assure that the road design is in accordance
with acceptable engineering practice.
      (2)   For certain aspects of vertical and horizontal alignment discussed
below, standards are determined by design speed of the road involved. For all
proposed streets, the developer shall indicate the proposed design speed. The
designated design speed is subject to the approval of the Borough Council. In
general, the maximum design speed on arterial streets shall be considered as 55
mph (to be determined in each individual case), on collector streets a minimum
of 45 mph (to be determined in each individual case) and on minor streets 35
mph unless a lesser design speed is permitted by the Borough Council.
      (3)   The speed limit proposed to be posted for streets shall not exceed
the design speed.
      (4)   Streets in and bordering a subdivision or land development shall be
coordinated, and be of such widths and grades and in such locations as deemed
necessary to accommodate prospective traffic, and facilitate fire protection.
      (5)   The location and width of all proposed streets shall conform to the
official plans which have been adopted by the borough and shall be properly
related to all existing streets, recorded streets and official plans which have
been adopted or approved by the borough, county or state.
      (6)   Streets within the subdivision or land development and adjacent
roads which will receive traffic from and distribute traffic to the subdivision
or land development shall be improved to not less than borough standards by the
developer to accommodate traffic generated by the subdivision or land
development.
      (7)   The proposed street system shall extend existing or recorded
streets at the same width as the existing or recorded streets if these streets
meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below. If the existing or recorded
streets do not meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below, the proposed
street extensions shall meet the standards of division (C) below.
      (8)   Where, in the opinion of the Borough Council, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, streets shall be extended by
dedication to the boundary of such property. The location and number of access
points to adjoining properties are subject to Borough Council approval.
      (9)   When streets will be extended to the boundaries of the subdivision
or land development to provide for access to potentially developable tracts and
sanitary sewer and/or water lines will be constructed in the streets within the
developer’s tract, the Borough Council may require extension of the sanitary
sewer and/or water lines to the tract boundary in order to facilitate future
extensions to abutting land.
      (10)   If a subdivision proposes lots, some of which front on existing
public roads, the Borough Council may require the developer to reserve land
adequate to provide for future street and utility access from the public roads
on which the lots front to the land to the rear of the proposed lots. Such
reserved areas shall be of such dimensions to permit the construction of
streets and utilities meeting the standards of this chapter.
         (a)   When reservations for future streets will adjoin lots to be
developed prior to the construction of the streets, the developer shall install
the proposed grades of the future streets and the extent of the area necessary
for the construction of those streets. If the area necessary for the
construction of the streets extends beyond the proposed street right-of-way
lines, all excavation and grading necessary for the roads beyond the right-of-
way lines shall be done as required improvements in conjunction with the
subdivision which contains the adjoining lots, or else construction easements
shall be provided on the adjoining lots, sufficient to permit construction of
the future street.
         (b)   Where reservations for future streets intersect existing
streets, radii shall be provided for the reservations to meet the requirements
of divisions (H)(6) and (H)(7) below.
      (11)   If lots or parcels in the subdivision are large enough for
resubdivision, or if a portion of the developer’s property is not proposed to
be subdivided but could be subdivided in the future, the Borough Council may
require the reservation of land adequate to provide for future street access to
land which could be resubdivided or subdivided in the future and require that
the location of land reserved for future streets be coordinated with the street
system shown on the subdivision plan.
      (12)   Connection rights-of-way shall be provided between streets within
the subdivision or land development to provide adequate access for emergency
vehicles, other vehicles and pedestrians.
      (13)   New minor streets shall be designed to discourage through traffic,
but the developer shall provide for the extension and continuation of arterial
and collector streets into and from adjoining properties. Minor streets shall
be extended and continued into and from adjoining properties when necessary for
the proper development of and traffic circulation in the borough.
      (14)   Where a subdivision or land development abuts an existing street
which does not meet the standards of this chapter, the Borough Council may
require the dedication of land sufficient to widen the street to meet the
standards of this chapter.
      (15)   Where a subdivision or land development fronts on an existing
borough road which does not meet the minimum cartway width requirements of this
chapter, the developer shall improve, at his or her expense, the borough road
cartway to meet those requirements. Pavement shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the borough road and street ordinance (Ord. 2-1982),
as amended. In addition, provision shall be made for adequate drainage along
the sides of the roads. Such drainage provisions shall be approved by the
Borough Council.
      (16)   Private streets (streets not to be offered for dedication) are
prohibited, unless they meet the design standards of this chapter as well as
the requirement of division (A)(16)(e) below. The maximum number of residential
dwelling units or lots fronting on or gaining access to a public street via a
private street shall be limited to three. The private street shall be improved
to public street standards, at the expense of the developer or developer and
existing lot owners, at such time that an additional dwelling unit or dwelling
units and/or lot or lots beyond three are proposed.
         (a)   Private streets not to be offered for dedication are prohibited,
unless they meet the design standards of this chapter as well as the
requirement of division (A)(16)(e) below.
         (b)   A private street may be constructed to the driveway standards of
division (A)(16)(e) below when no more than three residential dwelling units or
lots front on or gaining access to a public street via the private street.
Notwithstanding the forgoing, the applicant must demonstrate that the private
street can be constructed meeting the design standards of this chapter.
         (c)   The private street shall be improved to public street standards,
at the expense of the developer or developer and existing lot owners, at such
time that an additional dwelling unit or dwelling units and/or lot or lots
beyond three are proposed.
         (d)   All commercial and industrial uses, buildings, structures and
lots must front on public streets or private streets meeting the design
standards of this chapter and the requirement of division (A)(16)(e) below.
         (e)   Whenever a subdivider proposes to establish a street which is
not offered for dedication to public use, the borough may require the
subdivider to submit, and also to record with the plan, a copy of an agreement
made with the borough on behalf of his or her heirs and assigns, which shall
establish the conditions under which the street may later be offered for
dedication, and shall stipulate, among other things:
            1.   The street shall conform to borough specifications or that the
owners of the abutting lots shall include with the offer of dedication
sufficient money as estimated by the Borough Engineer, to restore the street to
conformance with borough specifications;
            2.   An offer to dedicate the street shall be made only for the
street as a whole;
            3.   The method of assessing repair costs be as stipulated; and
            4.   Agreement by the owners of 51% of the front footage thereon
shall be binding on the owners of the remaining lots.
      (17)   Where streets and other public improvements continue into
adjoining municipalities, evidence of compatibility of design, particularly
with regard to street widths, shall be submitted to both municipalities. The
applicant shall coordinate such design with both municipalities to avoid abrupt
changes in cartway width or in improvements provided;
      (18)   The street system shall be designed with regard to:
         (a)   Consideration of existing topographical considerations;
         (b)   Providing buildable lots; and
         (c)   Minimizing the number of street intersections, by encouraging
the use of three-way rather than four-way intersections particularly when
intersections of minor streets are involved.
      (19)   All access drives within multiple family and nonresidential
developments which are intended for circulation within the development shall be
designed to the horizontal and vertical alignment standards for streets
contained within this chapter;
      (20)   Residential single access developments:
         (a)   Residential single access developments shall be limited to 20
residential dwelling units or lots or combination of both. The proposed
intersection with the existing or proposed through street shall meet the design
standards of this chapter for local or collector streets, whichever is deemed
appropriate by the borough;
         (b)   When the number of proposed or existing plus proposed dwelling
units or lots or a combination of both exceeds 20 in a residential single
access development; a minimum of two independent means of ingress and egress
shall be provided. Each independent means of ingress and egress shall:
            1.   Meet the design standards of this chapter for local or
collector streets, whichever is deemed appropriate by the borough; and
            2.   Connect to one or more through streets.
      (21)   Nonresidential single access developments:
         (a)   Nonresidential single access developments shall be limited to 20
principal nonresidential uses, principal nonresidential buildings/structures or
nonresidential lots or combination of both. The proposed intersection with the
existing or proposed through street shall meet the design standards of this
chapter for collector streets;
         (b)   When the number of proposed or existing plus proposed principal
uses, principal buildings/structures or lots or a combination of both exceeds
20 in a nonresidential single access development; a minimum of two independent
means of ingress and egress shall be provided. Each independent means of
ingress and egress shall:
            1.   Meet the design standards of this chapter for collector
streets; and
            2.   Connect to one or more through streets.
   (B)   Partial and half streets. New half or partial streets will not be
permitted, but wherever a tract to be developed borders an existing half or
partial street, the Borough Council may require the developer to provide
adjacent to such half or partial street a reservation of land adequate to allow
the construction of a road meeting the standards of this chapter.
   (C)   Street widths.
      (1)   Minimum street right-of-way and pavement widths shall be as shown
on the official borough map or if not shown on such map, shall be as follows:
Street Type Required Widths (Feet)
Street Type                       Required Widths (Feet)
Collector street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               36
      Right-of-way          60
Major street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               See Note (a)
      Right-of-way          See Note (a)
Marginal access street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               26
      Right-of-way          See Note (b)
Minor street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               24
      Right-of-way          44
   On-street parking permitted
      Cartway               34
      Right-of-way          54
Permanent cul-de-sac street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               24
      Right-of-way          44
   On street parking permitted
      Cartway               34
      Right-of-way          54
Service street
   No on-street parking permitted
      Cartway               24
      Right-of-way          24
Notes:
(a) As specified in the official borough map, or as determined after
consultation with the borough, the County Planning Commission and PennDOT
(b) Variable, depending on the width of the adjacent right-of-way, but not
less than 36 feet
 
      (2)   Additional right-of-way and pavement widths may be required by the
borough for the purpose of promoting the public safety and convenience or to
provide parking in commercial or industrial subdivisions or land developments
and in areas of high density residential development or high traffic volumes.
   (D)   Restriction of access.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision or land development abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial, collector or local street the Borough Council
may require restriction of access to the street by:
         (a)   Provision of reverse frontage lots;
         (b)   Provision of service streets along the rear of the abutting
lots, together with prohibition of private driveways intersecting the arterial
or collector street;
         (c)   Provision of marginal access streets, provided that the reserve
strips establishing such marginal access streets shall be maintained under an
agreement with the borough; or
         (d)   Provision of a system of minor streets which intersect the
arterial or collector street.
      (2)   Except as specified by divisions (D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(c) above,
reserve strips shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Street grades.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum centerline grade of 0.75 %.
      (2)   Centerline grades shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   Minor street or service street: 10%;
         (b)   Collector street: 7%; and
         (c)   Arterial street: 6%.
      (3)   Grades of not more than 12% may be permitted by the Borough Council
on minor streets, except cul-de-sacs, if the Borough Council finds that unsafe
conditions will not result.
    (F)   Horizontal curves.
      (1)   Whenever street lines are deflected in excess of two degrees,
connection shall be made by horizontal curves.
      (2)   Minimum sight distance shall be provided as follows:
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Sight Distance (feet)
20                 125
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Sight Distance (feet)
20                 125
25                 150
30                 200
35                 250
40                 325
45                 400
50                 475
55                 550
 
      (3)   (a)   Minimum centerline radii for horizontal curves shall be as
follows:
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Radius (feet)
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Radius (feet)
20                 100
25                 125
30                 230
35                 310
40                 430
45                 500
50                 700
55                 850
 
         (b)   The Borough Council may permit smaller centerline radii than
required above when the developer substantiates that the minimum sight distance
as required by division (F)(2) above will be provided.
      (4)   A straight section of road of at least 100 feet shall be provided
between all horizontal curves on collector streets. A straight section of road
of at least 200 feet shall be provided between all horizontal curves on
arterial streets.
      (5)   Combinations of the minimum radius and maximum grade are
prohibited.
   (G)   Vertical curves. At all changes in street grades where the algebraic
difference in grade exceeds 1%, vertical curves shall be provided. The minimum
sight distance provided shall be as follows for both crest and sag vertical
curves.
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Sight Distance (feet)
Design Speed (mph) Minimum Sight Distance (feet)
20                 125
25                 160
30                 200
35                 250
40                 325
45                 400
50                 475
55                 550
 
   (H)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and
no street shall intersect another at an angle of less than 75 degrees (measured
at the intersection of the street centerlines) nor more than 105 degrees. The
angle of intersection with an arterial street shall be 90 degrees.
      (2)   No more than two streets shall intersect at the same point.
      (3)   Streets intersecting another street shall either intersect directly
opposite to each other, or shall be separated by at least 150 feet between
centerlines, measured along the centerline of the street being intersected if
only local streets are involved. When one or more of the streets at the
proposed intersection is classified as or meets the definition of collector
street, the separation distance shall be increased to at least 250 feet between
centerlines, measured along the centerline of the street being intersected;
however, the borough may require a greater distance based on recommendations
contain in the traffic impact study submitted for the development or AASHTO’s A
Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, latest addition.
      (4)   Approach intersections that require vehicular traffic to stop by
the presence of either a stop sign or other traffic control device shall be
approached by a straight leveling area, the grade of which shall not exceed 5%
within 50 feet of the intersection of the nearest right-of-way lines, measured
along the street centerline.
      (5)   Intersections with arterial streets shall be located not less than
500 feet apart, measured from centerline to centerline along the centerline of
the arterial streets.
      (6)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a tangential arc with
a minimum radius of:
         (a)   Twenty feet for all intersections involving only minor streets
or service streets;
         (b)   Thirty feet for all intersections involving a collector street;
and
         (c)   Forty feet for all intersections involving an arterial street.
      (7)   Street right-of-way lines shall be parallel to (concentric with)
curb arcs at intersections.
   (I)   Sight distances at intersections.
      (1)   (a)   Clear sight triangles shall be provided at all street
intersections, shall be reserved as such, and shall be drawn on the plan.
Within such triangles, no vision-obstructing object shall be permitted which
obscures vision above the height of 30 inches and below the height of ten feet,
measured from the centerline grade of intersecting streets.
         (b)   Such triangles shall be established from a distance of a minimum
of 75 feet from the point of intersection of the centerlines, except that:
            1.   Clear sight triangles of a minimum of 150 feet shall be
provided for all intersections involving a collector street; and
            2.   Clear sight triangles of a minimum of 150 feet shall be
provided for all intersections involving an arterial street.
      (2)   Whenever a portion of the line of such clear sight triangles occurs
behind the required building setback line, such portion shall be considered a
building setback line.
      (3)   Sight distance at street intersections shall provide the following
minimum stopping distance for a vehicle traveling on an approaching street
which has no stop or signal control:
                                                     Alternative Stopping
                                                     Distance (In Feet)
Design Speed of           Minimum Stopping Distance  Permissible at the
Approaching Street with   (In Feet) Required Unless  Discretion of the Borough
No Stop or Signal Control Alternative Permitted by   Council Only on Highways
(mph)                     Borough Council            with ADT less than 100,
                                                     Where the Removal of Sight
                                                     Obstructions Would Be
                                                     Costly
                                                     Alternative Stopping
                                                     Distance (In Feet)
Design Speed of           Minimum Stopping Distance  Permissible at the
Approaching Street with   (In Feet) Required Unless  Discretion of the Borough
No Stop or Signal Control Alternative Permitted by   Council Only on Highways
(mph)                     Borough Council            with ADT less than 100,
                                                     Where the Removal of Sight
                                                     Obstructions Would Be
                                                     Costly
20                        150                        90
25                        175                        110
30                        200                        130
35                        240                        155
40                        275                        180
45                        320                        200
50                        350                        220
55                        425                        240
 
      (4)   (a)   Street intersections shall be located and designed to provide
the following minimum sight distance for a vehicle traveling on an approaching
street which has a stop control:
Design Speed of Street Being Approached Minimum Sight Distance Required (In
by Vehicle on Stop Control Street (mph) Feet)
Design Speed of Street Being Approached Minimum Sight Distance Required (In
by Vehicle on Stop Control Street (mph) Feet)
20                                      200
25                                      250
30                                      300
35                                      350
40                                      400
45                                      450
50                                      500
55                                      550
 
         (b)   For calculating sight distance, refer to American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials publication A Policy on Geometric
Design of Rural Highway and Streets, latest edition.
   (J)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Dead-end streets are prohibited unless designed as cul-de-sac
streets, provided that in the case of streets which are planned for future
extension into adjoining tracts and will not be the primary means of access to
any lot or dwelling unit, a turnaround is not required.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (J)(1) above, any street dead-
ended for access to an adjoining property or because of authorized stage
development shall be provided with a turnaround within the subdivision or land
development and the use of such turnaround shall be dedicated to the public
until such time as the street is extended.
         (b)   If a cul-de-sac turnaround is offset, it shall not be offset to
the right.
         (c)   Should a temporary cul-de-sac be proposed, agreements
satisfactory to the Borough Council and Borough Solicitor shall be made for
construction and installation responsibilities of all improvements when the
temporary cul-de-sac is abandoned and the street is extended.
         (d)   In the event that the Borough Council shall not consider
development of adjoining property to be imminent, the Borough Council may
require that a permanent curbed cul-de-sac be constructed.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac streets shall be at least 250 feet from the right-of-way
of the street intersected to the beginning of the turnaround. Cul-de-sac
streets shall not exceed 750 feet in length and shall not furnish access to
more than 20 dwelling units. The Borough Council may permit temporary cul-de-
sacs longer than 750 feet at its discretion if future extension of the cul-de-
sac is likely in the opinion of the Borough Council. At its discretion, the
Borough Council may permit cul-de-sacs to serve more than 20 dwelling units
when it believes adequate provision will be made for vehicular circulation and
parking.
      (4)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to the tract boundary with
sufficient additional right-of-way width provided along the boundary line to
permit extension of the street at full width.
      (5)   All cul-de-sac streets, whether permanently or temporarily designed
as such, shall be provided at the closed end with a fully paved turnaround.
Minimum radius to the pavement edge or curb line shall be 50 feet, and minimum
radius to the right-of-way line shall be 60 feet.
      (6)   Drainage of cul-de-sac streets shall preferably be toward the open
end. If drainage is toward the closed end, water shall be conducted away in an
underground storm sewer or by other means approved by the Borough Council.
      (7)   The centerline grade on a cul-de-sac street shall not exceed 10%
and the grade of the diameter of the turnaround shall not exceed 5%.
   (K)   Street names.
      (1)   Proposed streets which are in alignment with others already
existing and named shall bear the names of the existing streets.
      (2)   In no case shall the name of a proposed street duplicate an
existing street name in the borough and the postal district, irrespective of
the use of the suffix street, road, avenue, boulevard, drive, way, place,
court, lane and the like.
      (3)   All street names shall be subject to the approval of the Borough
Council and Postmaster having jurisdiction.
   (L)   Service street (alleys).
      (1)   Service streets are prohibited in residential subdivisions except
where required by the Borough Council to avoid direct driveway access to
arterial or collector streets,
      (2)   Service streets may be permitted by the Borough Council in
commercial or industrial types of development, provided that the developer
produces evidence satisfactory to the Borough Council of the need for such
service streets and provided that the service streets are not the primary means
of access.
      (3)   Dead-end service streets are prohibited unless permitted at the
discretion of the Borough Council. Dead-end service streets shall be terminated
with a paved circular turnaround with a minimum radius to the outer pavement
edge (curb line) of 40 feet.
      (4)   Parking is prohibited along service streets, and no parking signs
shall be erected by the developer at his or her expense.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.117 GUIDE RAIL.
   (A)   Streets shall be designed to preclude or minimize the need for guide
rail. The Borough Council may require guide rail to be placed by the developer
for protection on embankments when a barrier is required in Design Manual Part
2 Highway Design by the State Department of Transportation, latest edition.
   (B)   Fixed obstructions along streets which would require guide rail shall
be precluded or minimized. The Borough Council may require guide rail to be
placed when a barrier is required for fixed objects in Design Manual Part 2
Highway Design by the State Department of Transportation, latest edition.
   (C)   The design and selection of guide rail shall be in accordance with the
standards in Design Manual Part 2 Highway Design, latest edition, however, the
Borough Council shall approve all guide rail systems.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.118 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Layout. The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to the provision of adequate sites for buildings of the type
proposed, zoning requirements, topography and requirements for safe and
convenient vehicular and pedestrian circulation, including the reduction of
intersections with arterial and collector streets.
   (B)   Length.
      (1)   Blocks shall have a maximum length of 1,800 feet and a minimum
length of 500 feet. The Borough Council may alter the permitted maximum and/or
minimum lengths of blocks if the topography of land, proposed lot sizes or
surface water drainage conditions warrant such alteration.
      (2)   Blocks along arterial streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet
long.
   (C)   Depth. Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate
two tiers of lots, except where reverse frontage lots are required or where
prevented by the size, topographical conditions or other inherent conditions of
the property.
   (D)   Nonresidential blocks. Blocks in nonresidential areas may vary from
the elements of design detailed above if required by the nature of the use. In
all cases, however, adequate provisions shall be made for off-street parking
and loading areas and pedestrian and vehicular circulation.
   (E)   Crosswalks. Crosswalks may be required by the Borough Council whenever
necessary to facilitate pedestrian circulation and to give access to community
facilities. Such crosswalks shall have a minimum width of ten feet and contain
a walkway, constructed of a material approved by the Borough Council, with a
minimum width of four feet.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.119 LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for
the type of development and use contemplated, and be in accordance with the
provisions of the borough zoning ordinance. Lots shall be capable of being
built upon in accordance with the provisions of the borough zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines
and radial to curved street lines.
      (3)   Lot lines shall follow municipal boundaries rather than cross them.
      (4)   The depth of residential lots shall be not less than one nor more
than three times their width. Lot width shall be measured at the right-of-way
line, between the side lot lines, and the lot depth shall be measured between
the street right-of-way line and rear lot line or the mean distance between the
street right-of-way line and rear lot line when the rear lot line is not
parallel to the street right-of-way line. Lots having an area three times or
greater than the minimum lot area as required by the zoning district in which
the lot is located are exempt from this regulation.
      (5)   Depth and width of parcels intended for nonresidential uses shall
be adequate for the use proposed and sufficient to provide satisfactory space
for on-site parking, loading and unloading, setbacks, buffer yards and
landscaping and the like.
      (6)   Subdivisions shall be designed to avoid the creation of residue of
land. If residue of land would result after subdividing, adequate provision,
which shall be approved by the Borough Council, shall be made for the
disposition and maintenance of the residue.
      (7)   Flag lots are prohibited, unless permission is granted by the
Borough Council. In granting permission to use flag lots, the Borough Council
shall find:
         (a)   Flag lots are appropriate because of topographical or other
conditions unique to the site. The access strip portions of a flag lot must be
wide enough to permit the construction of a road with a right-of-way meeting
the requirements of this chapter and shall not be used for building purposes;
         (b)   The use of flag lots will not result in conditions which will
cause increased interruptions to traffic flow, accident hazards and
sedimentation and runoff problems onto public roads;
         (c)   The use of an internal street system or marginal access streets
on which lots would front will not be more appropriate for development of the
tract than the use of flag lots;
         (d)   The use of flag lots is necessary to permit utilization of a
tract of ground, which otherwise is not feasible to utilize under the
applicable standards for lots found in this chapter;
         (e)   No more than one flag lot shall be created from the original
tract of land for each ten lots created from the original tract of land which
meet the requirements of this chapter for lot configuration;
         (f)   Should a flag lot be divided into two or more lots, the access
strip shall be constructed into a street complying with the specifications of
this chapter;
         (g)   All structures shall be located on the flag lot so as to provide
the required setback should the access strip be used for construction of a
street; and
         (h)   The area of land contained in the access stip shall not be
included in the calculation of minimum lot area.
      (8)   Where an ultimate right-of-way line has been provided, all setbacks
and lot areas shall be measured from such ultimate right-of-way line.
      (9)   Wherever feasible, lots shall be designed so that buildings can be
constructed above street grade. Where this is not possible, the developer shall
indicate what measures are to be taken to assure proper drainage away from the
buildings.
      (10)   When only a portion of a tract is designed at a time and there
exists the potential for development of the remainder of the tract, lots shall
be designed such that they do not restrict access to the remainder of the
tract, do not unduly restrict the potential development of the remainder of the
tract, nor result in the creation of awkward or difficult-to-develop parcels in
the remainder of the tract.
      (11)   The maximum slope utilized when grading lots or streets along an
adjoining tract of land not owned by the developer shall be a three to one
slope ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   (B)   Lot frontage and access.
      (1)   All lots shall abut and have direct driveway access to an existing
or proposed public street or private street meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where required by the
Borough Council to restrict access to existing streets or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography or orientation. All residential reverse frontage
lots shall contain a landscape screen, fence, earth mounding or similar
screening device and barrier to vehicular access subject to borough approval
within the rear yard and with a minimum width of ten feet.
      (3)   Where access to land within a subdivision or land development will
be solely by proposed roads within an adjoining municipality, the Borough
Council may require assurance from the adjoining municipality that adequate
provisions have been made to ensure construction of the proposed access roads.
      (4)   When the rear wall of a building will face a public street, the
Borough Council may require a landscape screen, fence, earth mounding or
similar screening device subject to borough approval between the building and
the public street.
      (5)   (a)   After consideration of street speeds, traffic volumes,
projected traffic generated at a proposed land use, and the location and
arrangement of existing and proposed driveways and intersections, the Borough
Council may require the developer to install at his or her expense an
acceleration or deceleration lane, or both, to serve a proposed driveway or
street in the development. If additional street right-of-way is required to
construct the acceleration or deceleration lane, the additional right-of-way
shall be provided by the developer.
         (b)   When required by the Borough Council, the developer shall
furnish a study to the borough which will provide the information necessary to
permit the determination as to whether an acceleration or deceleration lane is
required.
      (6)   For lots proposed to abut a railroad right-of-way containing
railroad tracks which are used for rail service, when deemed necessary by the
borough a landscape screen to provide a sight and noise buffer shall be placed
within those lots in the yards abutting the railroad right-of-way. The screen
shall be adequate for the intended purpose and a plan for the screen shall be
approved by the Borough Council.
   (C)   Lot size. The minimum lot size and width requirements set forth in the
borough zoning ordinance shall be met. The minimum lot area requirements found
in the zoning ordinance may be increased by the borough according to the
results of the soil percolation tests required by §
153.120.
   (D)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Each proposed dwelling unit in a subdivision or land development
shall be provided with a minimum of two off-street parking spaces.
         (a)   In the case of single-family or two-family dwellings and
townhouses with on-lot parking, such off-street parking spaces shall be
provided behind the street right-of-way line and may be provided in an attached
or separate garage, carport, or driveway. The spaces shall not be located
within any clear sight triangle required by this chapter,
         (b)   In the case of multiple-family dwellings, such off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in parking facilities located adjacent to,
within or near the multiple family dwellings. Spaces shall be located behind
the street right-of-way line and not be located within any clear sight triangle
required by this chapter. Each off-street parking space shall contain a minimum
of 200 square feet. In addition, adequate aisles with a minimum width of 24
feet for maneuvering and movement of vehicles shall be provided. The grade of
areas used for parking shall not exceed 6%. The grade of areas used only for
access shall not exceed 10%.
      (2)   Nonresidential development shall meet the off-street parking
requirements of the borough zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Driveways.
      (1)   Subdivisions and land developments shall be provided with internal
streets to which the lots will have driveway access in order to minimize the
number of driveway intersections with existing public streets. This reduction
in driveway intersections will lessen interruptions to traffic flow and
accident hazards and minimize sedimentation and runoff problems onto streets.
      (2)   All driveways shall be designed with turnaround areas so that cars
will not back onto streets.
      (3)   (a)   Provision shall be made at all intersections of driveways
with streets to ensure adequate stormwater drainage and erosion and sediment
control.
         (b)   The Borough Council may require subdivision and land development
plans to show a typical treatment of the construction of driveways and handling
of storm drainage where the driveways intersect a street. The Borough Council
may require as a condition to approval of a plan that prior to the issuance of
zoning or building permits the specific proposals for the construction of a
driveway and treatment of storm drainage and erosion and sediment control for
that driveway be submitted to the Borough for approval.
      (4)   (a)   Driveways shall be placed at locations at which sight
distance is adequate to safely allow each permitted movement to be made into or
out of the driveways; that the free movement of normal street traffic is not
impaired; that the driveways will not create a hazard; and that the driveways
will not create an area of undue traffic congestion on streets. Applicable safe
sight distance as established in the regulations of the State Department of
Transportation shall be provided.
         (b)   The Borough Council may require the driveway to a lot which
abuts two or more streets to be restricted to that street which can more safely
accommodate its traffic. The Borough Council may also require a driveway to be
located directly across from a street or driveway on the opposite side of the
street the driveway intersects if the Borough Council find that offset
driveways will create a safety hazard.
         (c)   The Borough Council may require the location of a driveway for a
lot to be shown on the subdivision or land development plan, and further
require that driveway locations be subject to approval of the Borough Council.
         (d)   Clear sight triangles shall be measured from the intersection of
the centerline of the driveway and the centerline of the street and measured
along the centerline of the street and driveway. Within clear sight triangles,
no vision-obstructing object shall be permitted which obscures vision above the
height of 30 inches and below the height of ten feet, measured from the
centerline grades of the intersecting driveway and street.
      (5)   (a)   Entrances to private driveways serving multiple-family
dwellings shall be rounded at a minimum radius of ten feet. The maximum radius
shall be 30 feet.
         (b)   Entrances to private driveways serving one- and two-family
dwellings shall be rounded at a minimum radius of five feet. The maximum radius
shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   Driveways shall intersect streets as nearly as possible at right
angles, and in no case at an angle of less than 70 degrees or more than 110
degrees, provided that the Borough Council may permit the use of one-way
driveways but at an angle of not less than 45 degrees.
      (7)   Private driveways shall have such grades as to furnish safe and
convenient parking spaces and to provide a safe and convenient means of access.
The grades and construction materials of driveways shall be such that the
materials of the driveway will not wash onto public streets. The maximum
permissible grade shall be 14% on all driveways, except that driveway grades
shall not exceed 5% within 20 feet of street cartway lines. Driveways shall be
paved.
      (8)   The centerline of entrances to private driveways serving one and
two-family dwellings shall be located at least 40 feet from the point of
intersection of the nearest street right-of-way lines from a minor street, at
least 80 feet from a collector street, and at least 120 feet from an arterial
street. The centerline of entrances to private driveways serving multiple-
family dwellings or nonresidential buildings shall be located at least 80 feet
from the point of intersection of the nearest street cartway lines from a minor
street, at least 120 feet from a collector street, and at least one hundred 60
feet from an arterial street. This requirement shall apply to both sides of any
street forming part of a cross-street or “T” intersection.
      (9)   The standards for driveways are in addition to those established in
the borough’s driveway, curb and sidewalk ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.120 SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   (1)   The developer shall provide the most desirable type of sanitary
sewage disposal facility consistent with existing physical, geographical and
geological conditions.
      (2)   The following types of sanitary sewage and disposal facilities are
listed in order of decreasing desirability:
         (a)   Public sanitary sewer and treatment plant system;
         (b)   Community sanitary sewer system with a temporary sewage
treatment plant;
         (c)   Capped sewers with temporary, approved on-site facilities; and
         (d)   Approved on-site facilities.
   (B)   Each property shall connect with an approved public or community sewer
system, if reasonably accessible. Where sewers are not yet accessible but are
planned for extension to the subdivision or land development within ten years,
the developer shall install sewer lines, including lateral connections,
necessary to provide adequate service to each commercial and industrial lot and
each dwelling unit when connection with the sewer system is made. Sewer lines
shall be suitably capped at the limits of the subdivision or land development,
and laterals shall be capped at the street right-of-way line. When capped
sewers are provided, on-site disposal facilities shall also be provided.
   (C)   All sanitary sewer systems shall conform in all respects to the
requirements of the State Department of Environmental Protection, the borough
and any applicable authority.
   (D)   Whenever approval by a municipal authority or the State Department of
Environmental Protection is required for the sanitary sewer system for a
proposed subdivision or land development, the developer shall submit a copy of
such approval to the borough prior to final approval of a plan. Indication of
ability to serve the tract shall be furnished to the borough at preliminary
plan stage.
   (E)   Sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (F)   If on-site sanitary sewage disposal facilities are proposed, the
borough may require that the developer submit a feasibility report if the
borough considers that such facilities are not the highest type consistent with
existing conditions. Such report shall compare the feasibility of providing on-
site facilities with that of providing more desirable types of facilities (see
division (A) above). Based on analysis of the feasibility report, the borough
may require the installation of a more desirable type of facility.
   (G)   Before covering and backfilling, all on-site facilities must be
inspected by the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer and must comply with the
approved engineering drawings that are part of the plans. Such approval shall
be in writing. Two copies of an “as-built” drawing of on-site facilities shall
be provided for the Borough Engineer showing the location sizes and/or
capacities of all pipes, tanks, cleanouts, vents and tile fields.
   (H)   Submittal to the State Department of Environmental Protection.
      (1)   In accordance with the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) municipalities shall revise their
official plan for sewage disposal whenever a new subdivision is proposed,
unless DEP determines that the proposal is for the use of individual on-lot
sewage systems serving detached single-family dwelling units in a subdivision
of ten lots or less and certain criteria set forth in the rules and regulations
of DEP are met.
      (2)   An official plan revision for new land development shall be
submitted to DEP in the form of a completed sewage facilities planning module
provided by DEP and including all information required by DEP.
      (3)   The developer or developer or his or her agent shall complete the
DEP sewage facilities planning module and submit it to the borough for action.
      (4)   No plan revision for new land development will be considered
complete unless it includes all information specified within DEP’s rules and
regulations.
      (5)   The municipality shall not adopt a proposed revision to the
official plan, conditionally or otherwise, until it determines that the
proposal complies with applicable borough zoning, land use or other borough
comprehensive plans. If changes to the proposed revision or the applicable
plan, regulation or ordinance are necessary, the changes shall be completed
prior to adoption of the revision by the borough.
      (6)   Upon adoption of a proposed revision to the official plan, or
refusal to adopt such a proposed revision, the borough shall forward the
proposed revision or statement refusing to adopt to DEP. DEP may approve or
disapprove a proposed plan revision for new land development.
      (7)   The time limits for actions by borough and county agencies and DEP
are set forth in the rules and regulations of DEP.
      (8)   Subdividers and developers are advised that no subdivision or land
development plan will be finally approved and released for recording by the
borough until all necessary approvals of the official plan revision or requests
for exceptions to the requirement to revise the official plan have been secured
from the borough and DEP. This fact and time limits for action should be
considered by subdividers and developers when submitting the DEP sewage
facilities planning module to the borough.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.121 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Subdivisions and land developments shall incorporate provisions for
reliable, safe and adequate water supplies to support intended uses.
   (B)   (1)   The developer shall provide the most desirable water supply and
distribution facility consistent with existing physical, geographical, and
geological conditions.
      (2)   The following types of water systems are listed in order of
decreasing desirability:
         (a)   Public water supply and distribution system;
         (b)   Community water supply and distribution system; and
         (c)   Approved on-site system.
   (C)   Each property shall connect with an approved public or community water
system, if reasonably accessible. A distribution system shall be designed to
furnish an adequate supply of water to each commercial, industrial and
residential lot and dwelling unit with adequate main sizes, water pressure and
fire hydrant locations to meet the specifications of the Insurance Services
Office.
   (D)   All water supply and distribution systems shall be constructed in full
compliance with State Department of Environmental Protection specifications,
and all ordinances, rules and regulations of the borough and applicable
authorities.
   (E)   Where public or community water and sewer systems are not reasonably
accessible, cannot be connected to, or are not adequate to service the proposed
development, but on-site water and sanitary sewage disposal systems are
proposed to be used; or when a water distribution system is planned for
extension to the subdivision or land development within ten years; or if deemed
necessary by the Borough Council for the public health, safety and welfare, a
public or community water supply and distribution system may be required by the
borough. If such a system is provided, it shall be approved by the borough and
the State Department of Environmental Protection, and appropriate agreements
established to ensure proper and adequate maintenance shall be approved by the
borough,
   (F)   Where individual on-site water supply system(s) are to be utilized,
the developer shall provide at least one test well for each ten proposed
dwelling units. Such wells should be drilled, cased and grout sealed into bed
rock, at least 50 feet deep, and should have a production capacity of at least
five gallons per minute of safe, potable drinking water, as certified by a
state certified testing laboratory. No well shall be closer than State
Department of Environmental Protection regulations permit from an on-site
sewage disposal system.
   (G)   If water is to be provided by means other than by private wells owned
and maintained by the individual owners of lots within the subdivision or land
development, the developer shall present evidence to the Borough Council at
preliminary plan stage that the subdivision or development is to be supplied by
a certified public utility, a bona fide cooperative association of lot owners,
or by a municipal corporation, authority or utility. A copy of a certificate of
public convenience from the State Public Utility Commission or an application
for such certificate, a cooperative agreement or a commitment or agreement to
serve the area in question, whichever is appropriate, shall be submitted.
   (H)   Whenever approval by an authority or other public agency, a utility
company or the State Department of Environmental Protection is required for the
water supply and distribution system for a proposed subdivision or land
development, the developer shall submit a copy of such approval to the borough
prior to approval of a final plan.
   (I)   Water supply systems shall be designed to eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.122 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DESIGNS AND STANDARDS.
   The developer shall provide a plan for the surface drainage of the tract,
including stormwater runoff calculations and the proposed method of
accommodating the anticipated runoff. Stormwater calculations shall be made and
drainage facilities designed in accordance with the borough stormwater
management ordinance, Ord. 50 as amended and/or the Sacony Creek Watershed Act
167 Stormwater Management ordinance, Ord. 12-2008, as amended.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.123 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROLS AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Land shall not be developed or changed by grading, excavation or the removal
or destruction of natural topsoil, trees or other vegetative cover unless
adequate provisions for minimizing erosion and sedimentation are provided.
   (A)   A plan for erosion and sediment control shall be prepared and
submitted to the borough. The plan shall meet all requirements and be approved
by the County Conservation District, the borough and the State Department of
Environmental Protection (Chapter 102 of Title 25, latest revision), when
applicable.
   (B)   (1)   The erosion and sediment control plan shall be submitted at
final plan submission.
      (2)   The plan shall contain two parts:
         (a)   A map(s) describing the topography of the area within the
subdivision or development, the proposed alterations of the area, and the
erosion and sediment control measures and facilities which are proposed; and
         (b)   A narrative report describing the project and giving the
purpose, engineering assumptions, and calculations for control measures and
facilities.
      (3)   The map(s) shall show:
         (a)   The types, depth, slope and area extent of the soils on the
site;
         (b)   The proposed alteration to the area, including:
            1.   Arrows indicating existing and proposed runoff flow direction,
when contours do not adequately describe flow paths;
            2.   Areas of cuts and fills exceeding five feet in vertical
difference;
            3.   Structures, roads, paved areas, buildings;
            4.   Stormwater and erosion and sediment control facilities; and
            5.   Existing contours on the site at intervals required by this
chapter and finished contours at the same interval. The Borough Council may
require that the proposed grading of individual lots be shown on the plan.
      (4)   The following certification statements:
         (a)   “I CERTIFY THAT THE PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT AND THE PLAN FOR SOIL
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEET THE REQUIREMENTS, STANDARDS AND
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.”
                        ________________________    __________________
                        Engineer for Developer      Date
         (b)   “I CERTIFY THAT ALL CONSTRUCTION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT WILL BE DONE
AS DESCRIBED BY THIS PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT AND THE PLAN FOR SOIL EROSION AND
SEDIMENT CONTROL, INCLUDING THE NARRATIVE REPORT.”
                        ________________________    __________________
                        Developer                Date
      (5)   The narrative report shall contain:
         (a)   A general statement of the project which shall contain:
            1.   A general description of the project;
            2.   A general description of stormwater control methods;
            3.   A general description of accelerated erosion control; and
            4.   A general description of sedimentation control.
         (b)   The staging of earthmoving activities, including cover removal,
control facility installation, installation of improvements and program of
operations; and
         (c)   A maintenance program for the control facilities, including:
            1.   Frequency of inspection of control facilities, and a method of
disposal of materials removed from the control facilities of the project area;
            2.   The methods, frequency and ultimate disposal site for solid
waste material. Construction waste shall be removed from the site and disposed
of in an approved landfill. Construction waste shall not be buried on the site;
            3.   A specification for both temporary and permanent seeding,
including preparation of the seed bed. Application rates for seed, fertilizer
and mulch shall be provided, and shall comply with the specifications and
standards established by the County Conservation District.
      (6)   The following items shall be shown on a map and also described in
the narrative report:
         (a)   Temporary control measures and facilities for use during
earthmoving, including:
            1.   Purpose;
            2.   Types of control measures and facilities;
            3.   Location of control measures and facilities; and
            4.   Dimensioned construction details of the facilities.
         (b)   Permanent control measures and facilities for site restoration
and long-term protection, including:
            1.   Purpose;
            2.   Types of control measures and facilities;
            3.   Location of control measures and facilities;
            4.   Dimensioned construction details of the facilities; and
            5.   Design considerations and calculations.
      (7)   All erosion and sediment control facilities shall be periodically
inspected and checked for adequacy and compliance with the approved erosion and
sediment control plan by the borough. The approved erosion and sediment control
plan shall be maintained at the site of earthmoving at all times.
   (C)   All control facilities shall be maintained for their designed
operation to ensure adequate performance.
   (D)   The following guidelines shall be followed as needed in developing
erosion and sediment control measures.
      (1)   Stripping of vegetation, grading, filling, excavating or other
alteration of the landscape shall be kept to a minimum and shall be done in
such a way that will minimize erosion.
      (2)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected
and supplemented.
      (3)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall not exceed 20
days, except in the case of building construction.
      (4)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable.
      (5)   Temporary vegetation and/or mulching shall be used to protect
exposed critical areas during development.
      (6)   Erosion control and drainage measures shall be installed prior to
earthmoving activities.
      (7)   Both permanent and temporary provisions shall be made to
effectively accommodate the increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface
conditions during and after development. Where necessary, the rate of surface
water runoff shall be mechanically retarded.
      (8)   Until disturbed areas are stabilized, sediment in runoff water
shall be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps or
other similar approved measures.
   (E)   The following guidelines shall be applied as needed in excavation and
fills as part of erosion and sediment controls.
      (1)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded to provide positive
drainage away from buildings, without ponding.
      (2)   Grading and cut-fill operations shall be kept to a minimum to
ensure conformity with the natural topography, to minimize the erosion hazard,
and to adequately handle surface runoff.
      (3)   Natural drainage patterns shall be preserved wherever possible and
desirable.
      (4)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from
damaging the cut face of excavations and the sloping surfaces of fills.
      (5)   Cut and fills shall not impact adjoining property.
      (6)   Fill shall be placed and mechanically compacted to minimize sliding
and erosion of the soil.
      (7)   Fills shall not encroach on natural watercourses, floodplains or
channels.
      (8)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control
shall be exercised.
      (9)   Grading equipment shall not cross running streams. Provisions must
be made for the installation of culverts or bridges.
      (10)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation,
regrading or other development or earthmoving, it shall be the responsibility
of the developer, causing such sedimentation, at his or her expense, to remove
it from all adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and watercourses and to repair
any damage which was caused within 72 hours of such sedimentation or damage.
The Borough Council may require a note to this effect to be placed on the final
plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.124 NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Subdivisions and land developments shall be designed to preserve
natural features such as trees greater than one foot in diameter, watercourses,
rock outcroppings, wooded areas, viewsheds, natural watercourses and bodies of
water.
   (B)   Topsoil shall not be removed from the subdivision or land development
site nor used as structural fill without the permission of the Borough Council.
Topsoil may be removed from areas of earthmoving activity, but shall be stored
elsewhere within the subdivision or land development and stabilized to minimize
erosion. Upon completion of construction, the topsoil shall be redistributed on
the site.
   (C)   Street and lot designs of tracts shall minimize alterations of the
natural landscape.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.125 FLOODPLAINS.
   (A)   (1)   Floodplains shall be calculated using the method established in
Appendix IV (determination of floodplains), which is adopted by reference as if
set out at length herein, and shown on all subdivision and land development
plans, where applicable.
      (2)   The floodplain controls established within the borough zoning
ordinance, as amended shall be applied to those floodplains.
   (B)   The Borough Council may require that vehicular access be provided to
each dwelling unit within a subdivision or land development over a street or
other approved means of access which is elevated above the level of the 100-
year flood.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.126 UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for electric, telephone and television
cables, drainage swales, wires and conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas,
water and heat mains and other utility lines. No structures, roads or other
improvements shall be built within such easements. No trees or shrubs shall be
permitted within easements unless approved by the Borough Council. The borough,
applicable authorities and municipalities, and utility companies shall be
consulted when locating utilities and easements, and all utilities and
easements shall be located in accordance with their standards.
   (B)   Easements abutting street rights-of-way shall be a minimum of ten feet
in width. Other easements shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum distance of 100 feet between any proposed
dwelling unit and the right-of-way line of any petroleum products, gas
transmission line or electric line which traverses the subdivision or land
development.
   (D)   Where gas or petroleum transmission lines are a part of the proposed
development, either proposed or requiring relocation, construction shall occur
within a right-of-way of 50 feet minimum and shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the State Public Utilities Commission.
   (E)   Underground electric distribution lines shall be installed in all new
subdivisions and land developments. In existing subdivisions, any extensions of
the electric distribution lines shall be placed underground.
   (F)   All telephone and television distribution lines shall be placed
underground when electric distribution lines are placed underground.
   (G)   When required by the Borough Council, the location of utility
easements and rights-of-way shall be marked in the field.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.127 COMPLIANCE WITH BOROUGH ZONING ORDINANCE.
   All subdivisions and land developments shall be designed to meet the
requirements of the borough’s zoning ordinance, except as may be otherwise
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.128 ACCESS TO THE SUBDIVISION OR LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The location and number of access points to a subdivision or land
development shall be adequate for and appropriate to the size and nature of the
development and surrounding roads and land uses.
   (B)   All subdivisions and land developments containing more than 20
dwelling units shall have at least two means of ingress and egress via streets
or access drives meeting the design and construction standards of the borough.
   (C)   For all subdivisions and land developments for which only one means of
ingress and egress is proposed, the Borough Council may require, where deemed
necessary in the public interest and for the public safety, the provision of
additional street or access drive access meeting borough standards or the
provision of an alternate means of ingress and egress meeting borough standards
which could be used by emergency vehicles in addition to the primary means of
ingress and egress. Such alternate means of ingress and egress shall be of such
width and improved to such an extent to be usable by emergency vehicles, and no
structures, trees or similar obstructions shall be permitted.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.129 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Provision shall be made in developments containing apartments and
townhouses and in nonresidential developments to adequately store within
containers all solid waste generated between collections.
   (B)   All storage containers shall be located to permit efficient depositing
of wastes in the containers and efficient collection from the containers.
   (C)   Debris, rubbish or other waste material resulting from grading or
construction activities on the lot shall be removed from the lot prior to the
issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy for the lot.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.130 CONSIDERATIONS FOR SOLAR ACCESS.
   (A)   When provision is to be made for the use of solar energy by
structures, streets toward which buildings are to be oriented should run in an
east-west direction.
   (B)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines and
radial to curved street lines. The Borough Council may allow variation from
this requirement where provision is to be made for use of solar energy, in
which case side lot lines generally may run from due north to due south or with
slight variation east or west of this axis.
   (C)   In land developments where lot lines will not be provided,
consideration should be given to orienting buildings to maximize solar access.
Generally, buildings should be located with their long axes running east to
west, though in some high density or townhouse developments a north-south
orientation for the long axes may be desirable.
   (D)   Consideration should be given to locating structures and open spaces
such that buildings will not cast shadows on other buildings.
   (E)   Consideration should be given to reserving solar easements within lots
for protection of solar access.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.131 CARBONATE AREAS.
   (A)   Designation of area.
      (1)   Areas subject to this section shall include all soils classified as
carbonate in the county soil survey.
      (2)   In carbonate areas, alteration and development of land may be
hazardous with respect to foundation safety of structures, the creation of
unstable land as a result of changes in drainage, and the contamination of
ground and surface waters. Within the limitations of the information available
at the time of review of individual applications, the borough shall attempt to
make reasonable judgments as to the developer’s compliance with the standards
of division (B) below. Under no circumstances shall the borough or any officer
or employee of the borough be liable for any damages that may result from an
applicant’s or any interested party’s reliance upon the regulations of division
(B) below or any decisions made by the borough in the administration of such
regulations.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Land grading or construction of buildings or other site
improvements shall not directly or indirectly diminish the flow of natural
springs or contaminate existing or potential water supplies. If warranted, as
determined by the Borough Council, water table data from observation wells
shall be provided by the developer.
      (2)   All buildings, structures, roads, storm drainage facilities,
utilities and other impervious surfaces shall be situated, designed and
constructed to minimize the risk of structural damage from existing or future
sinkholes. A professional geologist or geotechnical engineer with competence in
the field shall demonstrate that a minimal risk of structural damage due to
sinkholes will exist, or indicate mitigating measures to be taken to minimize
the risk of structural damage.
      (3)   Whenever a detention or retention basin for the control of
stormwater will be located in a carbonate area, a geological evaluation of the
proposed location shall be conducted to determine susceptibility to sinkhole
formation. The design of all basins over limestone formations shall include
measures to prevent ground water contamination and, where necessary, sinkhole
formation. Soils used for the construction of basins shall have low-erodibility
factors (“K” factors). The borough may require the installation of an
impermeable liner in basins. All detention or retention facilities shall be
above ground unless otherwise approved by the Borough Council.
      (4)   The following guidelines shall govern during construction
activities.
         (a)   Care should be taken to prevent collection and drainage of
surface water into excavated or low lying areas of the site during excavation
and construction.
         (b)   Soft and wet conditions should be located wherever they may
exist or be encountered.
         (c)   Soft areas should be removed and replaced with suitable fill
compacted in accordance with recognized standards.
         (d)   The bottom of all excavations should be inspected for soft or
yielding conditions. A visual inspection of the excavated bearing surface,
together with soundings or probes of the soil at regular intervals, should be
done. Any soft or unusually moist soil should be further excavated and a
determination made of the extent of the problem. Remedial measures should be
used as necessary.
         (e)   The low points of swales and outlet locations for drainage pipes
should be lined with impermeable liners instead of stone rip-rap in order to
prevent infiltration of runoff.
         (f)   Excavation should be kept to a minimum.
         (g)   Water from roof drains or other drainage systems should be
collected and conveyed away from structures to prevent infiltration near
foundations. If possible, roof drains should discharge directly into a storm
sewer system or the street gutter.
         (h)   Subsoil erosion/sinkholes that occur during the construction of
a project should be corrected as quickly as possible under the supervision of a
professional geotechnical engineer or geologist with competence in this field.
         (i)   Blasting should be avoided.
      (5)   Should the Borough Council find that an developer may create a
significant risk to the public’s health or safety, in spite of taking all
reasonable actions to minimize such risks, or should the Borough Council
determine that the applicant has not taken all reasonable actions to minimize
such risks, the Borough Council may deny the application.
   (C)   Submission requirements. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   (a)   For areas proposed for grading, construction of buildings and
other improvements, the developer shall indicate the presence of any of the
following carbonate features:
            1.   Depressions;
            2.   Fissures, lineaments, faults or air photo fracture traces;
            3.   Ghost lakes occurring after rainfall events;
            4.   Outcrops of bedrock;
            5.   Seasonal high water tables;
            6.   Sinkholes;
            7.   Soil mottling, as defined by a soil scientist;
            8.   Springs; and
            9.   Surface drainage entering the ground.
         (b)   Such information shall be supported by documentation of its
source, including the qualifications of the individuals directly responsible
for preparing such information.
      (2)   The developer shall furnish a plan indicating existing and proposed
drainage conditions, existing and proposed grading, the locations of existing
private and public wells on adjoining properties and the locations and extent
of all proposed uses and improvements.
      (3)   An environmental assessment report containing the following
information:
         (a)   Description of existing conditions showing the property with
respect to geology, topography, ground and surface water hydrology, soils,
vegetation, and existing improvements and uses;
         (b)   Description of the proposed action including types, locations
and phasing of proposed site disturbances and construction, as well as future
ownership and maintenance of the property and the proposed improvements;
         (c)   Proposed measures to control potential adverse environmental
impacts including all measures proposed by the applicant to control all adverse
impacts which may occur as a result of the proposed action; and
         (d)   List and qualifications of preparers showing the names,
addresses, telephone numbers and qualifications of persons directly responsible
for preparing the environmental assessment report shall be provided.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.132 REQUIRED STUDIES TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE DEVELOPER.
   (A)   Generally. The following impact studies shall be submitted to the
borough in the following instances:
      (1)   A residential subdivision or land development which has or will
have 25 or more lots and/or dwelling units;
      (2)   A nonresidential subdivision of five or more lots;
      (3)   A nonresidential land development containing 20,000 square feet or
more of gross floor area;
      (4)   Any nonresidential land development within one-quarter mile of an
intersection involving an arterial road or two collector roads; and
      (5)   The Borough Council reserves the right to require a traffic study
for any subdivision or land development other than a minor residential
subdivision, lot annexation, and plan for revision to lot lines when the
Borough Council deems such a study necessary to adequately review the impact of
the subdivision or land development on existing and proposed roads.
   (B)   Traffic impact study.
      (1)   The traffic impact study shall be prepared by a qualified
professional traffic engineer with verified experience in preparing such
studies.
      (2)   The area for the traffic study shall be based on sound engineering
judgment and an understanding of existing traffic conditions at the site as
well as the area which is likely to be affected by the development. The study
limits shall be determined by the Borough Council.
      (3)   The traffic impact study shall contain the following.
         (a)   Study area boundary. The study area boundary and identification
of the roadways included within the study area;
         (b)   General site description. A general site description, including:
            1.   Size and location of existing and proposed land uses and
dwelling types;
            2.   Construction staging, and completion date of the proposed
development;
            3.   Existing land uses, approved and recorded subdivision and land
developments and subdivisions and land developments proposed but not yet
approved and recorded in the study area that are determined by the Borough
Council as having bearing on the development’s likely impact; and
            4.   Within the study area, the applicant must describe existing
roadways and intersections (geometries and traffic signal control) as well as
improvements contemplated by government agencies or private parties.
         (c)   Analysis of existing conditions. Analysis of existing
conditions, including:
            1.   Daily and peak hour(s) traffic volumes. Schematic diagrams
depicting daily and peak hour(s) traffic volumes shall be presented for
roadways within the study area. Turning movement and mainline volumes shall be
presented for the three peak hour conditions (a.m., p.m. and site generated)
while only mainline volumes are required to reflect daily traffic volumes. The
source and/or method of computation for all traffic volumes shall be included;
            2.   Volume/capacity analyses at critical points utilizing
techniques described in derivative Highway Capacity Manual, latest edition or
derivative nomographs, an assessment of the relative balance between roadway
volumes and capacity are to be described. The analysis shall be performed for
existing conditions (roadway geometry and traffic signal control) for the
appropriate peak hours;
            3.   Level of service at critical points. Based on the results
obtained in division (B)(3)(c)2., levels of service (A through F) shall be
computed and presented for all movements. Included in this section shall also
be a description of typical operating conditions at each level of service; and
            4.   A tabulation of accident locations during the most recent
three-year period shall be provided.
         (d)   Analysis of future conditions without the proposed development.
The future year(s) for which projections are made will be specified by the
borough and will be dependent on the timing of the proposed development. The
following information shall be included:
            1.   Daily and peak hour(s) traffic volumes. This section shall
clearly indicate the method and assumptions used to forecast future traffic
volumes. The schematic diagrams depicting future traffic volumes shall be
similar to those described in division (B)(3)(c)1. above in terms of location
and times (daily and peak hours);
            2.   a.   Volume/capacity analyses at critical locations. The
ability of the existing roadway system to accommodate future traffic (without
site development) shall be described in this section. If roadway improvements
or modifications are committed for implementation the volume/capacity analysis
shall be presented for these conditions; and
               b.   In the case of existing signalized intersections, traffic
signal timing shall be optimized to determine the best possible levels of
service that can be obtained utilizing existing roadway geometry and traffic
signal equipment.
            3.   Levels of service at critical points. Based on the results
obtained in the previous section, levels of service (A through F) shall be
determined.
         (e)   Trip generation. The amount of traffic generated by the
development shall be presented in this section for daily and the three peak
hour conditions. The trip generation rates used in this phase of the analysis
shall be justified and documented to the satisfaction of the Borough Council.
Trip Generation (latest edition) published by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers shall be used unless the Borough Council approves other studies.
         (f)   Trip distribution. The direction of approach for site generated
traffic shall be presented in this section for the appropriate time periods. As
with all technical analysis steps, the basic method and assumptions used in
this work shall be clearly stated in order that the borough can replicate these
results.
         (g)   Traffic assignment. This section shall describe the utilization
of study area roadways by site generated traffic. The proposed traffic volumes
shall then be combined with anticipated traffic volumes from division (B)(3)(d)
above to describe mainline and turning movement volumes for future conditions
with the site developed as the applicant proposes.
         (h)   Analysis of future conditions with development.
            1.   This section shall describe the adequacy of the roadway system
to accommodate future traffic with development of the site.
            2.   Any unique characteristics of the site or within the study
area (e.g., weekend tourists, antique sales or holiday shopping) affecting
traffic shall be considered. If staging of the proposed development is
anticipated, analysis for each stage of completion shall be made.
            3.   The following information shall be included:
               a.   Daily and peak hour(s) traffic volumes, mainline and
turning movement volumes shall be presented for the highway network in the
study area as well as driveways and internal circulation roadways for the
appropriate time periods;
               b.   Volume/capacity analysis at critical points. Similar to
divisions (B)(3)(c)2. and (B)(3)(d)2. above, a volume/capacity analysis shall
be performed for the appropriate peak hours for future conditions with the site
developed as proposed; and
               c.   Levels of service at critical points. As a result of the
volume/capacity analysis, the level of service on the study area roadway system
shall be computed and described in this section for all movements.
         (i)   Recommended improvements. In the event that the analysis
indicates a decrease in the level of service for all movements will occur on
study area roadways, a description of proposed improvements to remedy
deficiencies shall be included in this section. These proposals would not
include committed projects by the borough and state which were described in
division (B)(3)(b)3. above and reflected in the analysis contained in divisions
(B)(3)(c) and (B)(3)(d) above. The following information shall be included:
            1.   Proposed recommended improvements. This section shall describe
the location, nature and extent of proposed improvements to assure sufficient
roadway capacity. Accompanying this list of improvements shall be preliminary
cost estimates;
            2.   Volume/capacity analysis at critical points. An iteration of
the volume/capacity analysis shall be described which demonstrates the
anticipated results of making these improvements; and
            3.   Levels of service at critical points. As a result of the
revised volume/capacity analysis presented in division (B)(3)(i)2. above,
levels of service for the highway system with improvements shall be presented.
         (j)   Conclusion. The last section of the report shall be a clear,
concise description of the study findings.
   (C)   Utilities impact study. A study shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer indicating the impact of the proposed development on the
existing sanitary sewer, water, solid waste and drainage systems serving the
borough. Said impact study shall identify the existing capacity of facilities
which would serve the development, the prospects of those facilities being able
to provide service to it, and any improvements that might be required as a
direct result of the proposed development. Additionally, the study shall
identify the likely ability of sanitary sewer, water, solid waste and drainage
systems to continue to provide efficient and economic service to existing
residents and businesses within the borough considering added service
requirements of the proposed development.
   (D)   Recreation impact study. The study shall analyze the demand for
recreational facilities which the proposed development will generate and
determine whether adequate facilities exist or are planned or proposed. The
study shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the projected age breakdown of the residents of
the proposed development;
      (2)   A description of any recreational facilities to be provided by the
developer;
      (3)   A description of existing public recreational facilities in the
borough and the impact of the proposed development on these facilities. The
National Recreation and Parks Association Guidelines shall be used in the
analysis;
      (4)   Discussion of potential for any recreational facilities to be
provided by the developer to compensate for any anticipated deficiencies of the
borough’s recreational facilities; and
      (5)   A description of any contributions the developer plans to make for
borough recreation to compensate for expected impacts.
   (E)   Fiscal impact analysis.
      (1)   A fiscal impact analysis shall be prepared identifying the likely
impact of the development on the borough and school district’s tax structure
and expenditure patterns. Included shall be a determination of the revenues to
accrue to the borough and school district as a result of a proposed
development, as well as an identification of the costs associated with
delivering services to the proposed development. The fiscal impact analysis
shall deal with the impact of the proposed development on the ability of the
borough to deliver fire, police, administrative, public works and utility
services to the development and on the borough’s economy. In order to prepare
the analysis, the applicant shall utilize a methodology from The New Guide to
Fiscal Impact Analysis (Rutgers Center for Urban Policy Research, 1985, as
modified from time to time).
      (2)   Particular aspects of the borough’s service delivery capability to
be analyzed shall include:
         (1)   Public works. This includes potential effects on the maintenance
and repair of roads, signal systems, sanitary sewer, water and drainage
systems, open space and recreation areas or any other applicable function. This
study shall address projected cost increases for the above mentioned items in
terms of administration, personnel, equipment and materials;
         (2)   Administration. This includes time that would be required by the
Borough Council, Secretary and other staff to process the application and
handle the project during construction, as well as long term administration
demands. This should include, but not be limited to, the handling of plans,
contracts, various legal instruments or agreements, permits, special problems
and escrow. Added demands on the code administration staff also shall be
projected;
         (3)   Fire and emergency services. The analysis shall incorporate the
development’s impact on fire company capabilities, including, but not limited
to, municipal water supply, pumping capacity, specialized equipment and
training requirements; and
         (4)   Police. The study shall project the overall effects of the
proposed development on existing borough police personnel numbers, equipment,
vehicles and working space. The study shall include whatever facilities or
assistance the development will provide to handle emergencies, criminal
investigation, armed robbery or other security-related problems.
   (F)   Historic and archeological resources impact study. All historic and
archaeological resources which have been identified and/or inventoried by the
borough, the County Planning Commission and/or the State Historical Museum
Commission located within the development shall be identified and the impact on
such resources detailed.
   (G)   Environmental impact study. The study shall include the following.
      (1)   (a)   Habitats of threatened and endangered species of special
concern in the state within the tract, as established by the state biological
survey and/or state natural diversity inventory, shall be identified and the
impact on such resources detailed.
         (b)   If such habitats exist on the tract, the measures proposed to
protect the habitats shall be indicated.
      (2)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, natural resources and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development and any adverse environmental impacts; and
      (3)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture and
other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
   (H)   Hydrogeologic impact study.
      (1)   Those applications proposing the use of a well shall require the
preparation of a hydrogeologic study.
      (2)   Such study shall be conducted by a qualified hydrogeologist and
consist of the following minimum considerations:
         (a)   A map showing the location of the site and proposed wells;
         (b)   A description of the geologic conditions on and within one-
quarter mile around the site, including factors which would affect the
groundwater recharge rate and the degree of groundwater renovation. Site
geology, including stratigraphy, structure and soils shall be analyzed.
Hydrogeology, including aquifer characteristics, groundwater movement, local
water use, aquifer yield and water quality shall be analyzed. Groundwater
impacts, availability of groundwater, well interference, water quality and
yield availability shall be analyzed;
         (c)   Should it be determined that the proposed use(s) would result in
a degradation of groundwater quality, or impact the potential groundwater use
at nearby properties, the study shall present measures that will be employed to
prevent these adverse impacts; and
         (d)   Results of a test well, including quality of water and flow
rate.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.133 PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREAS.
   (A)   Public open spaces.
      (1)   The Borough Planning Commission and Borough Council shall consider
whether community facilities in the area are adequate to serve the needs of the
additional dwellings proposed by the subdivider or land developer, who shall
make such report thereon as deemed necessary by the Borough Council in the
public interest.
      (2)   Subdividers/land developers shall give consideration to providing
facilities or reserving areas for facilities normally required in residential
neighborhoods, including parks, playgrounds and playfields for active and
passive recreational use. Areas provided or reserved for such facilities shall
be adequate to provide for building sites, landscaping and off-street parking
as appropriate to the use proposed and shall be suitably prepared for this use.
      (3)   The Borough Planning Commission shall consider and recommend to the
Borough Council, the borough’s need for either newly dedicated suitable open
space areas for public recreation or the improvement of nearby existing public
recreation area or areas at the expense of the developer, or the private
reservation of land, the payment of fees in lieu thereof, or both. The
standards to be utilized by the Borough Council and the Borough Planning
Commission in deciding which of the aforesaid alternatives shall be in the best
interest of the borough, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Whether a public recreation area exists or is planned within one
mile of within the proposed subdivision and/or land development;
         (b)   Whether an arterial street or road separates the nearby existing
public recreation area and the proposed subdivision and/or land development;
and
         (c)   1.   Whether the nearby existing public recreation area
adequately fulfills the recreational needs of the future residents of the
proposed subdivision and/or land development. In the event it shall be
determined that a new suitable open space area for public recreation is needed,
the Borough Council shall request that the developer shall set aside and
dedicate, for public recreation purposes, the following quantities of suitable
open space areas based upon site density.
 
Density (dwelling units per acre) % Of Tract In Open Space
1—3                             5
3.1—6                           10
6.1—10                          15
10.1—15                         20
15.1 or more                      25
 
            2.   The above percentages shall apply in subdivision or land
developments which intends to provide housing for the following number of
families, by unit type.
 
Unit Types                Open Space Required
Mobile home park          Always required
Single-family             5 units or more
Townhouse or multi-family Densities in excess of 2.0 d.u./acre and/or 10 or
                          more units
 
            3.   When mixed unit types are proposed within a development (e.g.,
single-family and townhouses) open space shall be required where there are ten
or more units and/or the density in excess of 2.0 dwelling units per acre.
      (4)   In the event it shall be determined that a payment of fees shall be
made by a developer in lieu of dedication of suitable open space, such fee
shall be based upon a contribution to the borough of the sum as established by
the Borough Council by resolution from time to time per new building lot or
proposed dwelling unit in the subdivision where such lot does not then contain
a presently existing and occupied dwelling unit.
      (5)   Monies contributed in lieu of dedication of suitable open space
shall be deposited by the developer in an interest-bearing account in the name
of the borough, clearly identifying the specific recreation facilities for
which the fee was received. Interest earned on such accounts shall become funds
of that account. Funds from such accounts shall be expended only in properly
allocable portions of the cost incurred to construct the specific recreation
facilities for which the funds were collected. Upon request of any person who
paid any such fees, the borough shall refund any unused fee, plus interest
accumulated thereon from the date of payment, if the borough has failed to
utilize the entire fee paid for the purposes set forth in this section within
three years from the date such fee was paid.
      (6)   Open space agreement: the developer shall provide a contract for
the maintenance of the open space or recreation facilities and the method of
management, together with all offers of dedication and covenants governing the
reservation and maintenance of undedicated open space. This agreement is
subject to the review of the Borough Solicitor and acceptance by the Borough
Council.
   (B)   Community assets. Consideration shall be given for the preservation of
all natural features, such as large trees, watercourses, viewsheds, historic
area and structures and similar community assets which, if preserved, will
enhance the development and add to the value of the subdivision or land
development.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.145 AREA, DENSITY, YARD AND LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum area of a mobile home park shall be ten acres. The area of
said site shall be in single ownership or under unified control.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall be served by either a public or community
sewage disposal system and by either a public or community water supply system.
The State Department of Environmental Protection shall approve both the sewage
disposal and water supply systems.
   (C)   The maximum gross density of any mobile home park shall be five
dwelling units per acre.
   (D)   Recreation areas.
      (1)   Not less than 15% of the total area of the mobile home park shall
be devoted to recreation areas for the use of all residents of the park.
      (2)   Not more than 25% of the area required for recreation purposes
shall contain wetlands or slopes greater than 25%.
      (3)   The recreation area shall be so located as to be reasonably free of
traffic hazards, centrally located, and easily accessible to all park
residents.
      (4)   Provision shall be made by the owner of the mobile home park for
the development, installation, and perpetual maintenance of such recreation
areas.
   (E)   Minimum area and width of a mobile home lot shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single wide mobile home units:
         (a)   Area: 6,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width:
            1.   At the street right-of-way line: 40 feet; and
            2.   At the building setback line: 50 feet.
      (2)   Double wide mobile home units:
         (a)   Area: 8,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Lot width:
            1.   At the street right-of-way line: 50 feet; and
            2.   At the building setback line: 60 feet.
   (F)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on each mobile home
lot behind the street right-of-way line.
   (G)   The minimum allowable distance between any mobile home, mobile home
park service or accessory building, or parking facility and a boundary line of
the mobile home park shall be 50 feet, provided that no mobile home shall be
located closer than 75 feet to any street right-of-way line located outside the
boundary lines of the park or the minimum required front yard setback
established for the zoning district in which the mobile home park is located,
which ever is greater. No mobile home shall be located closer than 25 feet to
any street right-of-way line located within the boundary lines of the mobile
home park. The minimum allowable distance between any mobile home and another
mobile home, service or accessory building, or common parking facility shall be
30 feet.
   (H)   Accessory buildings, to individual mobile homes, shall not be located
in the front yard or within five feet of the side or rear mobile home lot line,
nor shall an accessory building be located within ten feet of a mobile home.
   (I)   An evergreen planting screen a minimum of four feet in height at
planting shall be placed along all boundary lines of the mobile home park
separating the mobile home park from adjacent properties and/or streets. The
screen shall be a year-round screen, which shall be maintained permanently.
Plant material, which does not live, shall be replaced within one year. The
distance between trees shall be such that a full screen will be provided within
three years of planting. The permissible distance between plants will vary with
the species of planting.
   (J)   Each mobile home shall be placed on a lot, which has frontage on and
direct access to an approved street and shall be located to provide safe and
convenient access for servicing and fire protection.
   (K)   The limits of each mobile home lot shall be clearly marked on the
ground by permanent markers.
   (L)   (1)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a permanent
foundation that will not heave, shift, settle or move due to frost action,
inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on the foundation. The
foundation shall be of adequate size, material and construction so as to be
durable and adequate for the support of the maximum anticipated loads during
all seasons of the year. Each mobile home space shall be equipped with utility
connections. Any open spaces between a mobile home floor and a mobile home
foundation shall be permanently enclosed to prevent unauthorized entry and to
conceal supports and utility connections. Every mobile home shall be anchored
to the foundation to prevent overturning or uplift. The anchorage shall be
adequate to withstand wind forces as specified in § R301.2.1 of the
International Residential Code for One and Two-Family Dwellings, 2000 Edition.
      (2)   The application for placement of the mobile home shall be
accompanied by specifications for the foundation and anchoring and calculations
indicating that the foundation and anchoring are adequate to meet the standards
of this section.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.146 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile home parks shall comply with the requirements for mobile home
parks established by the State Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.147 COMPLIANCE WITH BOROUGH DESIGN STANDARDS AND IMPROVEMENTS
SPECIFICATIONS.
   Mobile home parks shall comply with the requirements of §§
153.115 through
153.133 and
153.165 through 153.168.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.148 ADDITIONAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Access to mobile home parks. Access to mobile home parks shall be
designed to minimize congestion and hazards at the entrance or exists and allow
free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. Each mobile home park shall be
provided with at least two points of ingress and/or egress in conformance with
§
153.116(H).
   (B)   Pedestrian circulation system, service and accessory buildings and
landscaping.
      (1)   All mobile home parks shall contain a pedestrian circulation system
which shall be designed, constructed and maintained for safe and convenient
movement from all mobile home spaces to principal destinations within the park
and, if appropriate, shall provide safe and convenient access to pedestrian
ways leading to destinations outside of the park. PRINCIPAL DESTINATIONS
include such uses as recreation areas, service buildings, storage areas, common
parking areas and management offices.
      (2)   All pedestrian walks shall have a minimum width of four feet.
      (3)   All pedestrian walks shall be paved.
      (4)   All pedestrian walks must be provided with lighting units spaced,
equipped and installed to allow safe movement of pedestrians at night.
      (5)   All service and accessory buildings, including management offices,
storage areas, laundry buildings and indoor recreation areas, shall conform to
the requirements of the Borough Building Code. Attachments to mobile homes in
the form of sheds and lean-to’s are prohibited.
      (6)   The mobile home park shall have a structure designed and clearly
identified as the office of the mobile home park manager.
      (7)   Service and accessory buildings located in a mobile home park shall
be used only by the occupants of the park and their guests.
      (8)   Ground surfaces in all parts of a mobile home park must be paved or
covered with grass or other suitable vegetation capable of preventing soil
erosion and the emanation of dust.
      (9)   Park grounds must be kept free of vegetative growth which is
poisonous or which may produce pollen or harbor rodents, insects or other pests
harmful to humans.
   (C)   Solid waste and vector control and electric distribution system.
      (1)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid wastes from the
mobile homes park shall be the responsibility of the mobile home park operator.
      (2)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid wastes must be
conducted so as to prevent insect and rodent problems.
      (3)   All solid wastes must be stored in approved fly-tight, rodent-proof
and water-tight containers, and these containers shall be maintained in a clean
condition.
      (4)   Solid wastes containers must be distributed throughout the mobile
home park in adequate numbers and be readily accessible to the mobile home
spaces in use.
      (5)   Exterior storage areas for solid wastes must be completely screened
on three sides with evergreen plantings.
      (6)   Adequate measures must be taken by the operator of the mobile home
park to prevent an infestation of insects and rodents.
      (7)   Every mobile home park shall be provided with an electrical
distribution system to which every mobile home and service building shall be
connected. Such system and connections shall be installed, inspected and
maintained in accordance with the specifications and rules of the appropriate
utility company, the borough and the state. The appropriate electric utility
shall inspect all transformers and underground connections to all mobile homes
located within mobile home parks and shall attach its dated “tag-of-approval”
to each mobile home at a visible location before any mobile home is occupied.
      (8)   Underground electric distribution lines are to be installed in all
mobile home parks.
   (D)   Utility improvements.
      (1)   Underground electrical distribution system. All mobile home parks
shall have an underground electrical distribution system which shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with the local electric power company’s
specifications regulating such systems. All connections from the meter box to
the trailer shall be installed by a qualified electrician and each trailer
shall have its own meter box.
      (2)   Natural gas system.
         (a)   Natural gas piping systems, when installed in a mobile home
park, shall be maintained in conformity with accepted engineering practices;
and
         (b)   Each mobile home park provided with piped gas shall have an
approved shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall
be equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when
the outlet is not in use.
      (3)   Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) systems. Liquefied petroleum gas
systems, when provided in a mobile home park shall include the following.
         (a)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve
excessive pressures with discharges terminating at a safe location.
         (b)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting
off gas located outside the mobile home, and which shall be maintained in
effective operating condition.
         (c)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile home shall be well
supported and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied
petroleum gas in liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and
systems in mobile homes.
         (d)   All LPG storage vessels of more than 12 U.S. gallons’ capacity
shall be secured to prevent accidental overturning.
         (e)   No LPG vessel shall be stored or located inside or beneath any
storage cabinet, carport, mobile home or any other structure.
      (4)   Fuel oil supply systems. All fuel oil supply systems, when provided
in a mobile home park, shall be installed and maintained in conformity with the
following regulations.
         (a)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to
mobile homes shall be securely fastened in place.
         (b)   All fuel oil supply systems shall have shut-off valves located
within five inches of the storage tanks.
         (c)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely placed and
shall not be located closer than five feet from any mobile home parking area or
exit.
         (d)   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be
protected against physical damage.
   (E)   Other site improvements.
      (1)   The park operator shall require that a fire extinguisher of an
approved type shall be maintained in each mobile home and in all public service
buildings under the mobile home park control.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a four-inch thick
concrete slab on a stable surface at least ten feet by 18 feet in size for use
as a terrace.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.149 NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   No part of any mobile home park or mobile home shall be used for a
nonresidential purpose, except where required for the management and
maintenance of the park.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.150 REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, construct, alter or
extend any mobile home park within the borough unless he or she holds a valid
certificate of registration issued by the State Department of Environmental
Protection and a valid occupancy permit issued by the Borough Council.
   (B)   Proof that a valid certificate of registration from the State
Department of Environmental Protection is held shall be submitted to the
Borough Secretary each year.
   (C)   Every person holding a certificate of registration shall file notice
in writing to the State Department of Environmental Protection and the Borough
Secretary within ten days after having sold, transferred, given away or
otherwise having disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park.
   (D)   Mobile home parks in existence upon the effective date of this chapter
shall be required to meet only the standards of the State Department of
Environmental Protection, the borough zoning ordinance and other applicable
borough ordinances, as a prerequisite to the issuing of an occupancy permit by
the borough. The standards of the Department of Environmental Protection, the
borough zoning ordinance, other applicable borough ordinances and the standards
prescribed in this chapter shall be met before an occupancy permit is issued by
the borough for a mobile home park constructed or expanded after the effective
date of this chapter.
   (E)   A representative of the borough may inspect a mobile home park at
reasonable intervals and at reasonable times to determine compliance with this
chapter.
   (F)   A copy of the occupancy permit for a mobile home park issued by the
borough shall at all times be posted in the office of the mobile home park
manager.
   (G)   Applications for occupancy permits for mobile home parks shall be
filed with the Borough Secretary, using application forms available from the
Borough Secretary.
   (H)   Accompanying all applications for occupancy permits shall be three
copies of all information, which was submitted to the State Department of
Environmental Protection when an application for a certificate of registration
from that body was filed.
   (I)   An application for an occupancy permit for a mobile home park shall be
accompanied by three copies of plans for the mobile home park and three copies
of any supplemental drawings, which shall contain all information necessary to
allow the Borough Council to determine that all the requirements of this
chapter have been met.
   (J)   The Borough Council shall act on each application for an occupancy
permit for a mobile home park and shall issue an occupancy permit if the
application is approved, proof that the State Department of Environmental
Protection has issued a certificate of registration is submitted to the
borough, and a permit fee is paid to the borough. The occupancy permit shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date it is issued.
   (K)   An annual permit fee shall be required for each mobile home park. An
occupancy permit must be renewed each year and will not be renewed by the
borough unless the annual permit fee is paid to the borough and the borough
determines that all the standards of the State Department of Environmental
Protection are met. In the case of mobile home parks constructed or expanded
after the effective date of this chapter, the borough must also determine that
the standards of this chapter are met.
   (L)   An application for renewal of an occupancy permit for a mobile home
park must be submitted each year. Application forms shall be obtained from the
Borough Secretary. A plan of the mobile home park is not required when a permit
is to be renewed.
   (M)   After the effective date of this chapter, before the area, number of
mobile home spaces, road system, service facilities, sewer facilities, water
facilities or any other aspect of a mobile home park, which is regulated by
this chapter, may be altered or expanded, this alteration or expansion must be
approved by the Borough Council in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 SUPERVISION OF PARK.
   (A)   The person to whom an occupancy permit for a mobile home park is
issued shall operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide
adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   A register containing the names of all park occupants, the make, model
and serial number of each mobile home, the date of arrival of each mobile home
in the park, and the lot number upon which the mobile home is parked, and the
date of departure from the park shall be maintained by the person to whom an
occupancy permit for a mobile home park was issued. The register shall be
available to any person whom the Borough Council authorize to inspect the park
and shall be kept within the office of the mobile home park manager.
   (C)   A space within a mobile home park shall be rented for periods of 180
days or more.
   (D)   Whenever the ownership or management of any mobile home park changes,
the new owner or manager of the mobile home park shall notify the Borough
Secretary of the change.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.152 NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever, after inspection of any mobile home park, it is determined
by the Borough Council that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of any provision of this chapter, the Borough Secretary shall give
notice in writing to the person to whom an occupancy permit for a mobile home
park was issued, advising such person that unless such conditions or practices
are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified within the notice,
the permit to operate a mobile home park in the borough will be suspended. At
the end of the specified period of time, the mobile home park will be
reinspected by the Borough Council and if the conditions or practices in
violation of the chapter have not been corrected, the Borough Council shall
suspend the occupancy permit and give notice in writing of such suspension to
the person to whom the permit was issued.
   (B)   The written notice advising that conditions or practices exist which
are in violation of this chapter and that these conditions or practices may
result in the suspension of an occupancy permit for a mobile home park shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of the chapter; and
      (5)   Be served upon the person to whom an occupancy permit for a mobile
home park was issued.
   (C)   Any person affected by any notice, which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Borough Council, provided that such person shall file with
the Borough Secretary a written petition requesting such hearing and setting
forth a brief statement of the grounds for the request for the hearing within
ten days after the notice was served.
   (D)   Upon receipt of such petition, the Borough Council shall set a place
and time for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
At the hearing, the petitioner will be given an opportunity to show why the
notice, which was issued, should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be
held not later than ten days after the day on which the petition was filed.
Upon written application by the petitioner, the Borough Council may waive this
ten day requirement when in its judgment the petitioner has submitted
sufficient reasons for such a postponement.
   (E)   After the hearing has been held, the Borough Council shall make
findings as to the compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall
issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice
provided for in division (A) above. Upon failure to comply with the conditions
of the sustained or modified notice, the Borough Council shall suspend the
occupancy permit for the mobile home park in question and give notice in
writing of such suspension to the person to whom the permit was issued.
   (F)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Borough Council may seek
relief in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
IMPROVEMENT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 153.165 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All streets, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water mains, curbs, sidewalks
and other physical improvements to the property being subdivided or developed
shall be provided, constructed, and installed by the developer as shown on the
approved final plan and all supplemental plans and drawings accompanying the
preliminary plan and approved final plan.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.166 SUBDIVISION AND IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT.
   The developer shall execute a subdivision improvements agreement with the
borough for the installation of all such improvements. All improvements shall
be constructed in accordance with the applicable specifications of the borough
or authority having jurisdiction, or other applicable regulations. Where none
apply, specifications of the State Department of Transportation and/or State
Department of Environmental Protection shall be used. If none exist,
specifications prepared by the Borough Engineer shall be used.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.167 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Supervision of the installation of improvements required by §
153.168 shall in all cases be required by borough or by the appropriate state
agency. The applicant shall reimburse the borough for the reasonable and
necessary expense incurred for the inspection of the improvements. Such
reimbursement shall be based upon a schedule established by ordinance or
resolution.
   (B)   The contractor shall schedule a meeting with the borough’s
representative prior to any construction. Shop drawings and specifications of
all material to be used shall be submitted to the borough for approval prior to
commencement of construction.
   (C)   If the representative of the borough observing the construction or
installation of improvements determines that the work is not in accordance with
approved plans and specifications or is not being done in a workmanlike manner,
said representative may stop work and/or require corrections to be made. Prior
to any construction or installation, a 48-hour start work notice is to be given
to the borough’s representative.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.168 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be provided by the developer at his or her
expense.
   (A)   Street grading.
      (1)   All streets, existing and proposed, including those to be dedicated
and those not to be dedicated, shall be graded at full right-of-way width in
accordance with borough regulations.
      (2)   Planting strips within street rights-of-way shall be graded,
properly prepared, and seeded or sodded with lawn grass.
      (3)   Where wet conditions are encountered, the Borough Council may
require underdrains, removal of soft and yielding soil and placement of
geotextile.
   (B)   Cartway paving. All streets, existing and proposed, including those to
be dedicated and those not to be dedicated, shall be paved to full cartway
width in accordance with the borough road and street ordinance, Ord. 54, as
amended.
   (C)   Curbs. Vertical curbs shall be installed along both sides of all
existing and proposed streets within and abutting the subdivision or land
development in accordance with borough specifications.
   (D)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks with a minimum width of four feet and meeting
requirements of applicable borough regulations shall be installed on both sides
of all existing and proposed streets within and abutting the subdivision or
land development.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be provided along all parking areas in apartment,
townhouse, commercial, industrial and office land developments.
   (E)   Storm drainage. Storm sewers and related facilities shall be installed
consistent with acceptable design principles and the standards contained in the
borough stormwater management ordinance.
   (F)   Sanitary sewage disposal.
      (1)   Sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be provided consistent with
the requirements contained in §
153.120.
      (2)   Whenever individual on-site sanitary sewage disposal systems are
utilized, the developer shall either install such facilities or shall require
(by deed restriction or otherwise) as a condition of the sale of each lot or
parcel within the subdivision that such facilities shall be installed by the
purchaser of such lot or parcel at the time that a principal building is
constructed.
      (3)   If individual on-site systems are not used, the developer shall
provide a community or public sanitary sewage disposal system. The design and
installation of all systems shall be subject to the approval of the borough and
the applicable public agencies. A community sewage disposal system shall be
subject to satisfactory provisions for the maintenance thereof.
   (G)   Water supply.
      (1)   Water supply system(s) shall be provided consistent with the
requirements of §
153.121.
      (2)   Where the developer proposes that on-site water supply systems
shall be utilized within the subdivision, the developer shall either install
such facilities or shall require (by deed restriction or otherwise) as a
condition of the sale of each lot or parcel that the facilities shall be
installed by the purchaser of such lot or parcel at the time that a principal
building is constructed.
      (3)   The design and installation of public and community water
distribution systems shall be subject to the approval of the borough and the
applicable public agencies or private companies. The water shall be supplied by
a certified public utility, a bona fide cooperative association of lot owners
or by a municipal corporation, authority or utility. A copy of a certificate of
public convenience from the State Public Utility Commission or an application
for such certificate, a cooperative agreement or a commitment or agreement to
serve the area in question, whichever is appropriate, shall be acceptable
evidence. A community water distribution system shall be subject to
satisfactory provisions for the maintenance thereof.
   (H)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions
and land developments containing public or community water supply systems. The
location, number and separation of hydrants shall be approved by the borough
and fire company in accordance with the guidelines of the Insurance Services
Office. The maximum distance between fire hydrants shall be 600 feet.
   (I)   Monuments.
      (1)   Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be accurately placed at
changes in direction of lines in the boundary of the property and at all lot
corners.
      (2)   All streets shall be monumented on the right-of-way line or the
five feet range line on one side of the street at the following locations:
         (a)   At least one monument at each street intersection;
         (b)   At changes in direction of street lines;
         (c)   At each end of each curved street line;
         (d)   At intermediate points wherever topographical or other
conditions make it impossible to site between two otherwise required monuments;
and
         (e)   At such other places along the line of streets as may be
determined by the Borough Council to be necessary so that any street may be
readily defined in the future.
      (3)   All monuments shall be placed so that the center of the monument
coincides exactly with the point of intersection of the lines being monumented.
      (4)   Monuments shall be set with their top level at the finished grade
of surrounding ground, except that where monuments are located beneath a
sidewalk, access shall be provided for their use.
      (5)   Lot corner monuments shall be set at all lot corners prior to the
sale of the lot.
   (J)   Street lights. In accordance with the conditions to be agreed upon by
the developer, the borough and the appropriate public utility, street lights
shall be installed in all subdivisions and land developments.
   (K)   Erosion and sediment control measures. Installations necessary to
implement the erosion and sediment control plan shall be made on the tract by
the developer as required improvements.
   (L)   Shade trees. Deciduous hardwood trees of a species approved by the
borough having a minimum caliper of two to two and one-half inches shall be
provided. The trees are to be placed outside the street right-of-way at a
maximum distance of 50 feet between trees. Conditions of placement and
inspection shall be specified by the borough. In addition, the developer shall
preserve existing shade trees within the tract when feasible.
   (M)   Solid waste management. The developer shall provide a solid waste
management plan for apartment, townhouse, commercial, office and industrial
developments.
   (N)   Traffic-control devices. The traffic-control devices shown on the
approved plan, including such items as traffic light standards, stop signs,
speed limit signs, street name signs and signs restricting parking, shall be
installed as required by the Borough Council.
   (O)   Rock removal. Provision shall be made for rock removal in the
subdivision improvements agreement and guarantee.
   (P)   Backfilling. Utility excavations in areas of streets, access drives,
parking areas and loading areas shall be backfilled in accordance with the
following standards.
      (1)   Backfilling shall be done as promptly as possible.
      (2)   The trench shall be filled with hand-placed stone acceptable to the
borough to a height of at least one foot above the top of the conduit, pipe or
pipe bell.
      (3)   The remainder of the trench shall be backfilled with 2-A aggregate
and promptly compacted. The backfill material shall be mechanically tamped in
approximately six-inch layers.
      (4)   Where excavations are made behind the curb line, work shall be
protected as required in these specifications and the opening covered with good
topsoil to a depth of six inches and seeded or sodded to the satisfaction of
the borough.
      (5)   Whenever the trenches have not been properly filled or if
settlement occurs, they shall be refilled, compacted, smoothed off and made to
conform to the surface of the ground.
      (6)   Frozen material shall not be used for backfill, nor shall any
backfilling be done when materials in the trench are frozen.
   (Q)   Parking and loading area paving.
      (1)   All access drives and parking and loading areas for apartment,
townhouse, commercial, office and industrial land developments shall be
constructed of a minimum of six inches of 2A subbase material, six inches
bituminous concrete base course, one and one-half inches ID-2 binder course,
and one inch ID-2 wearing course.
      (2)   Alternate cross-sections may be permitted at the discretion of the
Borough Council.
      (3)   All construction shall conform to PennDOT Publication No. 408,
latest edition.
   (R)   Guide rail. Guide rail shall be provided pursuant to §
153.117.
   (S)   Driveways. Driveways shall be paved in accordance with this chapter
and the borough curb, sidewalk and driveway entrance ordinance, Ord. 55, as
amended.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.180 REVIEW FEES.
   The Borough Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees for the
review of plans to be paid by the developer. The schedule of fees shall be
obtainable from the Borough Secretary. No final plan shall be released for
recording unless all fees have been paid in full.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.181 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Borough Council may grant a modification of the requirements
of one or more provisions of this chapter if the literal enforcement will exact
undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in
question, provided that such modifications will not be contrary to the public
interest and that the purpose and intent of this chapter is observed.
      (2)   All requests for a modification shall be in writing and shall
accompany and be a part of the application for development. The request shall
state in full the grounds or provisions of this chapter involved and the
minimum modification necessary. The request for modification will be referred
to the Planning Commission for advisory comments. The Borough Council shall
keep a written record of all action on all requests for modifications. The
record of the modifications shall be shown on the final plan.
      (3)   In granting modifications, the Council may impose such conditions
as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards
or requirements so modified.
   (B)   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made to any
final plan of a subdivision or land development after the plan has been
approved by the Borough Council unless the plan is first resubmitted to and
approved by the Borough Council in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.182 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to challenge the validity of any provision of this
chapter or any amendment thereof shall make such challenge as prescribed by
law.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by action of the Borough Council may appeal the
action as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.183 PREVENTIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to other remedies, the borough may institute and maintain
appropriate actions of law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
violations, to prevent unlawful sale of lots prior to the recording of the
final plan (except as permitted by auction sale), to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages and to prevent illegal occupancy of a
building, structure or premises. The description by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the seller or transferor from such penalties or
from the remedies herein provided.
   (B)   The borough may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop any real property which has been
developed or which has resulted from a subdivision of real property in
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   This authority to deny such a permit or approval shall apply to any of
the following applicants:
      (1)   The owner of record at the time of such violation;
      (2)   The grantee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation whether or not such a grantee or lessee had actual or constructive
knowledge of the violation;
      (3)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent to
the time of violation whether or not such current owner had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation; and
      (4)   The grantee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired
the property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether
such grantee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
   (D)   As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting or
an approval to any such owner, current owner, grantee or lessee for the
development of any such real property, the borough may require compliance with
the conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.184 CONFLICTS AND SAVING CLAUSE.
   (A)   Whenever there is a difference between the standards specified herein
and those included in other borough ordinances or regulations, the more
stringent requirements shall apply.
   (B)   All existing ordinances or parts of ordinances which are contrary to
the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to
give this chapter full force and effect, except as noted in §
153.185 or elsewhere in this chapter; provided, however, that the provisions of
this chapter shall not affect any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted to enforce any provision of such repealed ordinance or to punish any
offense under any such repealed ordinance committed prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.185 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable, and should any article,
section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase or provision of this chapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment
shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part or
provision thereof other than the part declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.200 GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows.
   (A)   Words in the singular include the plural and those in the plural
include the singular.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (C)   Words “person”, “subdivider”, “owner”, “applicant” and “developer”
include an individual corporation, limited liability company, unincorporated
association and a limited partnership or other legal entity.
   (D)   The words “subdivider” and “developer” shall be interchangable.
   (E)   The word “building” includes structure and shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof”.
   (F)   The word “watercourse” includes channel, creek, ditch, dry run,
spring, stream and river.
   (G)   The words “should” and “may” are permissive; the words “shall”, “must”
and “will” are mandatory.
   (H)   Words used in this chapter, but not defined in this chapter, shall be
defined in the borough zoning ordinance, or such words shall have their common,
everyday meaning.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS DRIVE. A private drive providing vehicular access between a public or
private street and a building, parking area and/or loading area within a land
development.
   ALLEY. See STREET, SERVICE STREET.
   APPLICANT. A landowner or developer, who has filed an application for
development, including his or her heirs, successors and assigns.
   APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT. Every application, whether preliminary or
final, including, but not limited to, an application for a building permit, for
the approval of a subdivision plat or plan or for the approval of a land
development plan.
   ARCHITECT. A licensed architect in the commonwealth.
   BLOCK. All land fronting on one side of a street between the nearest
streets, intersecting, meeting or crossing the aforesaid street.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission
of the Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, or any
structure affording shelter to persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the minimum
required distance between any building and a street right-of-way.
   CARBONATE AREA. An area containing limestone soils.
   CARTWAY. The portion of a street, paved or unpaved, intended for vehicular
use.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of the street centerlines.
   COMMON PARKING AREA. A parking facility other than that provided within the
lot lines of a lot on which one single-family detached dwelling, one single-
family semi-detached dwelling, one townhouse, one two-family detached dwelling
or one two-family semi-detached dwelling is located.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel or adjacent parcels of land or an area of water,
or a combination of adjacent land and water within a development site designed
and intended for the use of residents of a development, not including streets,
off-street parking areas and areas set aside for public facilities.
   COUNTY. The County of Berks, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the County of Berks,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   CROSSWALK. A right-of-way for public use to facilitate pedestrian access in
a subdivision. Also, an area for pedestrians to cross a street.
   DEVELOPER (SUBDIVIDER). Any landowner, agent of such landowner or tenant
with the permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a
subdivision of land or a land development.
   DISTRICT or ZONING DISTRICT. An area including all buildings and lots within
certain designated boundaries, as indicated on the zoning map.
   DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The lands required for the installation of sanitary
or storm sewers or drainage ditches, or required along a natural stream or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein to safeguard the public against damage.
   DRY BOTTOM WATER STORAGE AREA. A human-made area used to detain surface
water and meter the flow at an acceptable rate.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building arranged, designed and
intended for three or more dwelling units and which includes the following
housing types.
         (a)   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building on a single lot arranged,
intended or designed to be occupied as a residence for three or more families,
and in which the dwelling units may be separated horizontally and/or
vertically.
         (b)   TOWNHOUSE. A building arranged, intended or designed to be
occupied exclusively as a residence for one family which is one of a group of
three or more such dwelling units, placed side by side and separated by
unopened party walls, each dwelling having at least one separate entrance from
the outside.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, intended or
designed to be occupied exclusively as a residence for one family and having no
party wall with an adjacent building. The term SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING
shall include factory built MODULAR HOME and MOBILE HOME that shall be placed
on a permanent perimeter foundation.
         (a)   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family detached dwelling
intended for permanent occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more
units designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of again being
separated for repeated towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for
occupancy except for minor incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and
constructed so that it may be used without a permanent foundation. MOBILE HOMES
shall be constructed in accordance with safety and construction standards of
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The term MOBILE HOME
shall not include recreation vehicle nor a modular home placed on a permanent
perimeter foundation.
         (b)   MODULAR HOME. Any structure designed primarily for residential
occupancy which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or
assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and
installation, on the building site; housing units defined as mobile homes are
excluded from this definition.
      (3)   SINGLE-FAMILY SEMI-DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, intended
or designed to be occupied exclusively as a residence for two families, each
family living on either side of a party wall.
      (4)   TWO-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, intended or
designed to be occupied exclusively as a residence for two families, with one
family living wholly or partly over the other and with no party wall with an
adjacent building.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing one or more rooms
arranged for the use of one or more individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit, and having no cooking or sanitary facilities in common with
any other DWELLING UNIT.
   EASEMENT. A right-of-way granted, for limited use of private land for public
or quasi-public purpose, and within which the owner of the property shall not
erect any permanent or temporary structures, plant or cause to have planted any
trees or shrubs, but shall have the right to make any other use of the land
which is not inconsistent with the rights of the grantee or this chapter.
   ENDORSEMENT. The application of the following to the final plan:
      (1)   County Recorder of Deeds signature and appropriate stamp;
      (2)   County Planning Commission’s appropriate stamp and signature of the
executive director;
      (3)   Signatures of the majority of the Borough Planning Commission
members; and
      (4)   Signatures of the majority of the Borough Council.
   ENGINEER. A professional engineer, registered by the commonwealth.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption and not more than two additional persons unrelated to such persons, or
a group of not more than two persons who need not be related by blood or
marriage, all living together as a single housekeeping unit and using common
cooking facilities, and including bona fide servants with or without separate
accommodation thereof.
   FLOODPLAIN. A land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   GRADE. The inclination, with the horizontal, of a road, unimproved land and
the like, which is generally expressed by stating the vertical rise or fall as
a percentage of the horizontal distance.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any human-made physical addition or change to the land.
   IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE or PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which is
accepted by the borough to guarantee that certain improvements will be made
within the subdivision or land development, including letters of credit,
performance bonds, escrow agreements and any other collateral or surety
agreements.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land.
      (3)   The following land development activities shall be excluded from
the definition of a land development:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of an accessory building, including farm buildings,
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         (c)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For
purposes of this division (3)(c), an AMUSEMENT PARK is defined as a tract or
area used principally for permanent amusement structures or rides. This
exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park until
initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the Borough Council.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner, or other person having
a proprietary interest in land.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A landscape architect, registered in the commonwealth.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the property lines of a lot excluding
space within all street rights-of-way.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot of irregular shape that has a narrow access strip (not
meeting the minimum lot widths requirements of the borough zoning ordinance and
thus too narrow for the construction of a principal building) leading from a
street or other right-of-way to a wider portion of the lot which is intended
for construction or a principal building and which wider portion complies with
the minimum lot width requirements of the borough zoning ordinance.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. A guarantee by the developer of the structural
integrity of improvements dedicated to the borough for a period of not less
than 12 months nor more than 18 months from the date said improvements are
dedicated to the borough.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been
designated and improved to contain two or more mobile home lots for the
placement thereon of mobile homes.
   MONUMENT.
      (1)   A stone or concrete MONUMENT with a flat top at least four inches
in diameter or square, containing a copper or brass dowel (one-fourth inch
drill hole) and at least 24 inches in length. It is recommended that the bottom
sides or radius be at least two inches greater than the top to minimize
movements caused by frost.
      (2)   An iron pin at least 30 inches in length with the bottom encased in
concrete to a minimum depth of eight inches.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER or BOROUGH ENGINEER. A professional engineer or a firm of
engineers licensed as such in the commonwealth, duly appointed as the engineer
for Borough of Topton.
   MUNICIPALITY. Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   OFFICIAL MAP. See PLAN, OFFICIAL.
   PARCEL. See LOT.
   PLAN, FINAL. A complete and exact subdivision or land development plan
(including all required supplementary data), prepared for official recording to
define property rights and proposed streets and other improvements.
   PLAN, OFFICIAL. The comprehensive plan and/or master plan and/or future land
use plan and/or ultimate right-of-way plan and/or official map and/or
topographical survey and/or other such plans, or portions thereof, as may have
been adopted by borough.
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY. A tentative subdivision or land development plan
(including all required supplementary data), in lesser detail than a final
plan, showing, among other things, topographical data and approximate proposed
street and lot layout as a basis for consideration prior to preparation of a
final plan.
   PLAN, RECORD. The copy of the final plan which contains the original
endorsements of the County Planning Commission, Borough Council and the Borough
Planning Commission and which is intended to be recorded or has been with the
County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLAN, SKETCH. An informal plan indicating salient existing features of a
tract and the general layout of a proposed subdivision or land development.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a subdivision or land development, whether
preliminary or final.
   PUBLIC GROUNDS. Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other recreational
areas; sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal and other publicly
owned or operated facilities; publicly owned or operated scenic and historic
sites.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
governing body or Planning Commission, intended to inform and obtain public
comment, prior to taking action in accordance with the Municipalities Planning
Code, being 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of July 3,
1986 (P.L. 388, No. 84), known as the “Sunshine Act”, being 65 Pa.C.S. § 701.
   RESERVE STRIP. A parcel of ground in separate ownership separating a street
from other adjacent properties, or from another street, either proposed or
existing.
   RESUBDIVISION. Any replatting of land, including changes to recorded
subdivision or land development plans. See also SUBDIVISION.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot extending between and having frontage on two
generally parallel streets, excluding service streets, with vehicular access
solely from one street.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any land reserved or dedicated as a street, alley, crosswalk
or for other public or semi-public purposes.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, ON-SITE. Any structure designed to treat
sanitary sewage within the boundaries of an individual lot.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM, COMMUNITY. A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant, serving a neighborhood area or single subdivision
or land development.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PUBLIC. A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant, not confined to one neighborhood, subdivision or
land development and operated by the borough or municipal authority.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. The required length of roadway visible to the driver of a
vehicle at any given point on the roadway when the view is unobstructed by
traffic. SIGHT DISTANCE measurement shall be made from a point three and three-
fourths feet above the centerline of the road surface to a point one- half foot
above the centerline of the road surface.
   SINGLE ACCESS DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision or land development, whether
existing or proposed, that ultimately has only one street intersection with a
public through street regardless of the internal street system or vehicular
circulation patterns.
   SINGLE ACCESS STREET. A street intersecting a (public) through street and
said intersection provides the sole access to abutting properties within any
subdivision or land development whether existing or proposed.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded materials.
   STREET. A strip of land, including the entire right-of-way (i.e., not
limited to the cartway) intended to be used by vehicles or pedestrians. The
word STREET includes avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway, lane,
alley, viaduct and other ways used or intended to be used by vehicular traffic
or pedestrians whether public or private. STREETS are further classified
according to the function they perform.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street serving a large volume of comparatively
high speed and long distance traffic.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which intersects minor streets to
provide access to community facilities or other COLLECTOR or arterial streets.
Generally, streets in industrial and commercial subdivisions shall be
considered COLLECTOR STREETS.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET.
         (a)   A minor street intersecting another street at one end and
terminating in a vehicular turnaround at the other end or, a minor street which
intersects another street at one end, forms a loop and intersects itself.
         (b)   The length of a cul-de-sac street shall be measured from the
street intersection to the farthest portion of the turnaround, along the
centerline of the cul-de-sac street.
      (4)   HALF (PARTIAL) STREET. A street, generally parallel and adjacent to
a property line, which is less than the full required right-of-way width.
      (5)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street parallel and adjacent to an
arterial or collector street, but separated from it by a reserve strip, which
provides access to abutting properties and control of intersections with the
arterial or collector street.
      (6)   MINOR STREET. A street used primarily to provide access to abutting
properties or buildings.
      (7)   SERVICE STREET (ALLEY). A minor right-of-way providing secondary
vehicular access to the side or rear of two or more properties.
   STREET, THROUGH. A street that provides connectivity to the borough street
network in both directions.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision or a
land development.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by any
means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels of other division of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the SUBDIVISION by lease of land for agriculture purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling shall be exempted. The term SUBDIVISION shall refer, as
appropriate in this chapter, to the process of subdividing land or to the land
proposed to be subdivided. The term SUBDIVISION includes resubdivision.
      (2)   The enumerating of lots shall include as a lot that portion of the
original tract remaining after other lots have been subdivided therefrom.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. Where, in the judgment of the municipal engineer,
at least 90% (based on the cost of the required improvements for which
financial security was posted) of those improvements required as a condition
for final approval have been completed in accordance with the approved plan, so
that the project will be able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended
use.
   SURVEYOR. A licensed surveyor registered by the commonwealth.
   TURNAROUND. An area of specified dimensions and material intended for use by
vehicles for the purpose of making turning movements at the terminus of a
street.
   VIEWSHED. The entire area an individual can see from a given point.
   VISTA. A view to or from a particular point with a characteristic emphasis
on length, as along a corridor or down an avenue, and with some sense of narrow
enclosure, as through a canyon or between rows of trees or buildings.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, COMMUNITY. A system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to two or more dwellings and/or other
buildings within a single neighborhood, subdivision or land development.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, ON-SITE. A system for supplying and distributing
water to a single dwelling or other building from a source located on the same
lot.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, PUBLIC. A system for supplying and distributing
water from a common source to dwellings and other buildings, but not confined
to one neighborhood, subdivision or land development and operated by the
borough, municipal authority, or private company.
   WET BOTTOM WATER STORAGE AREA. A water storage area in which a permanent
water surface is maintained.
   WETLANDS. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions; and those areas which may be classified as
wetlands under applicable guidelines issued by the federal government or by the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity who or which has
violated the provisions of this chapter or any prior subdivision and land
development ordinance of the borough shall, upon being found liable therefore
in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the borough, pay a judgment of
not more than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be
imposed, levied or be payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by the district justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the
applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation, unless the district justice determining that
there has been a violation further determines that there was a good faith basis
for the person, partnership, corporation or other entity violating the chapter
to have believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall
be deemed to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following
the date of the determination of a violation by the district justice and
thereafter each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   The court of common pleas, upon petition, may grant an order to stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of
the violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
Title, Purpose, Interpretation and Application
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Interpretation
   
154.005   Application of regulations
   
154.006   Limited municipal exemption
Definitions
   
154.020   Tense, gender and number
   
154.021   General terms
   
154.022   Terms, phrases and words not defined
   
154.023   Specific terms
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
154.035   Types of zoning districts
   
154.036   Official zoning map
   
154.037   District boundaries - rules for interpretation
   
154.038   Application of district regulations
District Regulations
   
154.050   R-1 Suburban Residential District
   
154.051   WSO - Weis Street Overlay District
   
154.052   R-2 and R2-A Urban Residential Districts
   
154.053   R-3 Mixed Use Residential District
   
154.054   C-1 Commercial District
   
154.055   I-G Institutional - Government District
   
154.056   L-1 Industrial District
   
154.057   I-1a Industrial-Residential Overlay District
   
154.058   RBO Riparian Buffer Overlay District
   
154.059   Table 1: Uses
   
154.060   Table 2: Dimensional Standards
General Regulations
   
154.075   Prohibited uses
   
154.076   Access to buildings and structures
   
154.077   Erection of more than one principal building or structure on a lot
   
154.078   Accessory uses - residential
   
154.079   Commercial and industrial accessory uses
   
154.080   Highway frontage development in commercial and industrial districts
   
154.081   Landscaping
   
154.082   Lighting
   
154.083   Signs
   
154.084   Loading areas
   
154.085   Off-street parking
   
154.086   Private residential driveways
   
154.087   Front yard exceptions
   
154.088   Obstructions
   
154.089   Home occupations regulations
   
154.090   Fences
   
154.091   Corner lot restrictions
   
154.092   Residential conversion regulations
   
154.093   Floodway controls
   
154.094   Adult book stores, adult motion picture theaters, cabarets and
massage parlors
   
154.095   Environmental performance standards
   
154.096   Trash screening and security
   
154.097   Traffic
   
154.098   Performance standards for conditional uses
   
154.099   Principal solar energy system regulations
   
154.100   Principal wind energy facility regulations
Nonconforming Lots, Uses, Structures and Buildings
   
154.115   Statement of intent
   
154.116   Nonconforming lots of record
   
154.117   Abandonment
   
154.118   Change
   
154.119   Expansion
   
154.120   Repair, movement and replacement
   
154.121   Damage of destruction
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.135   Enforcement
   
154.136   Zoning permit
   
154.137   Certificate of use and occupancy
   
154.138   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
154.139   Amendments
Zoning Hearing Board
   
154.150   Creation, appointment and organization
   
154.151   Hearings
   
154.152   Functions of the Zoning Hearing Board
   
154.153   Procedures for application to the Zoning Hearing Board
   
154.154   Stay of procedures
Miscellaneous
   
154.165   Appeals
   
154.166   Causes of action
   
154.167   Public utilities corporation exempted
   
154.168   Severability
   
154.169   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
154.170   Effective date
Small Wireless Facilities
   
154.185   Purpose and intent
   
154.186   Applicability
   
154.187   Definitions
   
154.188   Right-of-way rates and fees
   
154.189   Right of access
   
154.190   Permitted use; application and fees
   
154.191   Action on permit applications
   
154.192   Design criteria and permit review
   
154.193   Removal of equipment
   
154.194   Restoration of right-of-way
 
   
154.999   Penalty
TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   A chapter regulating and restricting the height of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards and
other open spaces, the density of population and the location and use of
buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other purposes
creating districts and boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein;
and providing for the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter
in accordance with the provision of the State Municipalities Planning Code,
being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Borough of Topton
Zoning Ordinance of 2015”.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the residents and inhabitants of the borough by
giving effect to the community development objectives of the borough, which
are:
   (A)   Encourage the most appropriate use of land;
   (B)   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
   (C)   Conserve the value of land and buildings;
   (D)   Lessen the congestion of traffic on the roads and highways;
   (E)   Avoid undue congestion of the population;
   (F)   Provide for adequate light and air;
   (G)   Protect natural resources;
   (H)   Secure safety from fire, panic, flood and other dangers;
   (I)   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage,
school and other public facilities;
   (J)   Encourage the harmonious and orderly development of land; and
   (K)   Give effect to the objectives, policies and purposes set forth in the
joint comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and/or the general welfare of the residents and
inhabitants of the borough.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.005 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, land or parts
thereof shall be used or occupied, erected, constructed, assembled, moved,
enlarged or structurally altered unless in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006 LIMITED MUNICIPAL EXEMPTION.
   The dimensional requirements of this chapter shall not apply to property,
uses or structures owned by the borough and intended for a public recreation or
public health and safety purpose.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 TENSE, GENDER AND NUMBER.
   Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the masculine
gender include the feminine and the neuter; the singular number includes the
plural, and the plural the singular.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.021 GENERAL TERMS.
   The word “shall” or “must” is always mandatory; the word “may” is
permissive. The words “used for” include “designed for”, “arranged for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for” or “occupied for”. The word “building”
includes “structure” and shall be construed as if followed by the phrase “or
part thereof”. The word “person” includes “individual”, “profit or non-profit
corporation”, “organization”, “partnership”, “company”, “unincorporated
association” or other similar entities.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.022 TERMS, PHRASES AND WORDS NOT DEFINED.
   When terms, phrases or words are not defined herein, they shall have their
meaning as stated in the borough’s subdivision and land development ordinance
(SALDO), as codified in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances. When terms, phrases or words are not
defined in this chapter or the SALDO, they shall have their ordinarily accepted
meanings or such as the context may imply.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.023 SPECIFIC TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building subordinate to the principal building on the
same lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to those of the principal
building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to the principal use of land or of a
building on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   ADAPTIVE RE-USE. A process that adapts buildings for new uses while
retaining their historic features.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   AGE-RESTRICTED. A grouping of residences constructed and organized to meet
age-related regulations under the Housing for Older Persons Act, being 42
U.S.C. § 3601, such as the requirement that one member of the residence must be
at least 55 years of age in 80% or more of the occupied dwellings.
   ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement in the structural parts of a
building or structure, or any enlargement thereof, whether by extension on any
side or by an increase in height; or the moving such building or structure from
one location or position to another.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building on a single lot intended and designed for a
residence for three or more families and in which the dwelling units may be
separated horizontally and/or vertically.
   APARTMENT UNIT. A dwelling unit within an apartment building.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility licensed as an ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY
by the commonwealth, specifically any premises in which food, shelter, assisted
living services, assistance or supervision and supplemental health care
services are provided for a period exceeding 24-hours for four or more adults
who are not relatives of the operator, who require assistance or supervision in
matters such as dressing, bathing, diet, financial management, evacuation from
the residence in the event of an emergency or medication prescribed for self-
administration.
   BASEMENT. A story partly below the finished grade but having at least one-
half of its height (measured from finished floor to finished ceiling) above the
average level of the finished grade where such grade abuts the exterior walls
of the building. A BASEMENT shall be considered as one story in determining the
permissible number of stories.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Topton, Berks County,
Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Borough of
Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   BRING YOUR OWN BOTTLE ESTABLISHMENT (BYOB). A place of assembly or any other
use defined in this chapter, other than a dwelling unit, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, taverns, clubs and social buildings, that is not
licensed by the State Liquor Control Board, in which no intoxicating beverages
are sold, but where patrons are permitted to bring intoxicating beverages upon
the premises for their own use and consumption only.
   BUILDING. Any combination of materials forming any structure which is
designed, intended or arranged for the housing, sheltering, enclosure or
structural support of persons, animals or property of any kind.
   BUILDING AREA. The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross-section areas
of all buildings on a lot, excluding cornices, unroofed porches, paved
terraces, steps, eaves and gutters.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the finished grade at the two front corners of the building to the highest
point of the roof. Chimneys, spires and other similar projections shall not be
included in calculating the height of a building.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line that designates the minimum required
distance between any building or structure or portions thereof to be erected or
altered and an adjacent street right-of-way or property line, whichever is
closer. Such line shall be measured at right angles from the street right-of-
way line which abuts the property upon which said building or structure is
located or to be located and shall be parallel to said right-of-way line.
   CABARET. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   CELLAR. A story partly below the finished grade, having at least one-half of
its height (measured from finished floor to finished ceiling) below the average
level of the adjoining finished grade where such grade abuts the exterior walls
of the building. A CELLAR shall not be considered a story in determining the
permissible number of stories.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. A statement, based on an inspection,
signed by the Zoning Officer, setting forth that a building, structure, sign
and/or land complies with the zoning regulations, and/or that a building,
structure, sign and/or land may be lawfully employed for specific uses, or
both, as set forth therein.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. An area of land under single and separate ownership, to
be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, the development
plan for which complies in lot size, density, dwelling type, lot coverage, open
space land, other dimensional characteristics set forth in any residential
zoning district.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION ANTENNA. Any device mounted on a tower on stable
platform such as an existing building or structure used for the transmission or
reception of radio, television, cellular phone, commercial mobile radio
service, satellite or any other wireless communication signals including,
without limitation, omnidirectional or whip antennas and directional or panel
antennas, and including any device that radiates or captures electromagnetic
waves, digital signals, radio frequencies or other communications signals,
owned or operated by any person or entity licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) to operate such devices. This definition shall
not include private residence mounted satellite dishes or television antennas
or amateur radio equipment including, without limitation, ham or citizen band
radio antennas.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A use consisting or towers, antennas,
building, parking and accessory uses necessary for the operation of a
commercial communication system.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY CO-LOCATION. The use of a commercial
communications facility by more than one commercial communications entity,
including joint permitting, leasing or joint ventures among commercial
communications entities.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas for
telephone, radio and similar communication purposes, including self-supporting
lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers, or structures appended or
attached to existing buildings or structures. The term includes radio and
telephone transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures and the like. The term
includes the structure and any support thereof.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a
combination of land and water within the development site designed and intended
for use or enjoyment of all residents of the development in which it is
located. Land included within the right-of-way lines of streets shall not be
classified as COMMON OPEN SPACE. Dwellings units and residential accessory uses
shall not be located within COMMON OPEN SPACE AREAS, nor shall loading areas
and parking areas unless they are strictly incidental to COMMON OPEN SPACE
USES.
   COMMON PARKING AREA. A parking facility other than those provided within the
lot lines of a lot on which one single-family detached dwelling, one single-
family semi-detached dwelling, one townhouse, one two-family detached dwelling
or one two-family semi-detached dwelling is located.
   CONDITIONAL USE. In accordance with 53 P.S. § 10603, uses to be allowed or
denied by the governing body pursuant to public notice and hearing and
recommendations by the planning agency and pursuant to express standards and
criteria set forth in the zoning ordinance. In allowing a CONDITIONAL USE, the
governing body may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, other than
those related to off-site transportation improvements, in addition to those
expressed in the chapter, as it may deem necessary.
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the County of Berks,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   DAY CARE CENTER. The premises in which out-of-home care is provided, at any
one time, for part of a 24-hour day to seven or more children, 15 years of age
or younger, including care provided to a child at the parent’s work site when
the parent is not present in the child care space, care provided in private or
public, profit or non-profit facilities, and care provided before or after the
hours of instruction in nonpublic schools and in private nursery schools and
kindergartens, all under a certificate of compliance issued by the
commonwealth.
   DEMOLISH. The voluntary or elective removal of a structure to grade.
   DESTROY. The involuntary removal of substantial portions of a structure.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign containing directional information locating public
places owned or operated by federal, state or local governments or their
agencies; public or privately owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural,
scientific, educational and religious sites; and areas of natural scenic beauty
or which are naturally suited for outdoor recreation.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the borough within which certain uniform regulations
and requirements or combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof arranged, intended, designed or used
as the living quarters for one or more families living independently of each
other. Such buildings as hospitals, hotels, boarding, rooming and lodging
houses, motels, hotels and institutional residences are not included in the
definition of DWELLING.
      (1)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, designed or
intended for occupancy exclusively as a residence for one family and having no
common or party wall with an adjacent building.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY SEMI-DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, designed
or intended for occupancy exclusively as a residence for two families, each
living on one side of a common or party wall.
      (3)   TOWNHOUSE. A building arranged, designed or intended for occupancy
exclusively as a residence for one family, which is one of a group of three or
more such buildings, placed side by side and separated by party walls.
      (4)   TWO-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, designed or
intended for occupancy exclusively as a residence for two families, with one
family living wholly or partly over the other and having two or more common or
party walls with adjacent buildings.
      (5)   TWO-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, designed or
intended for occupancy exclusively as a residence for two families, with one
family living wholly or partly over the other and having no common or party
wall with an adjacent building.
      (6)   TWO-FAMILY SEMI-DETACHED DWELLING. A building arranged, designed or
intended for occupancy exclusively as a residence for two families living on
one side of a common or party wall and one of the families living wholly or
partly over the other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing one or more rooms
arranged for the use of one or more individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit, and having no cooking or sanitary facilities in common with
any other dwelling unit.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services customarily associated with residential living
in a community setting such as public utilities. However, commercial
communications antennas are not considered ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   FAMILY. One or more persons, related by blood, marriage or adoption, with
not more than two boarders, roomers, lodgers or not more than four unrelated
persons, living together as a single housekeeping unit and using cooking
facilities and certain rooms in common.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of every floor of a
building, including basement space devoted to residential commercial or
industrial use, and roofed porches, breezeways, roofed garages, carports and
other accessory buildings. Cellar area is excluded.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. An independently supported sign, not attached to any
building.
   GARAGE. A building that is accessory to a principal dwelling(s) and is used
primarily for the parking of a maximum of three motor vehicles. Such a GARAGE
shall not be used for business purposes unless specifically approved for such
purposes, nor shall any repairs be made to motor vehicles within the GARAGE
other than to those vehicles registered to the property owner or lessee of any
dwelling located on the property. Such a GARAGE may be used for the parking of
a maximum of one commercial vehicle, which shall be operated by a resident of
the lot.
   HEIGHT OF SIGNS. The vertical distance measured from the average grade at
the front of the sign to its highest point. The highest point in the case of a
sign shall include the supporting structure.
   HEIGHT OF TOWER. The overall height of the tower from the base of the tower
to the highest point of the tower, including, but not limited to, antennas,
transmitters, satellite dishes or any other structures affixed to other
otherwise placed on the tower. If the base of the tower is not on ground level,
the HEIGHT OF THE TOWER shall include the base of the building or structure to
which the tower is attached.
   HIGHWAY ACCESS POINT. The location or place of egress from or access to a
street or highway created by a driveway, minor street or another highway.
   HIGHWAY FRONTAGE. The lot dimension measured along the right-of way line of
any street or highway abutting a lot.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling unit.
   HOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing individual rooms for
rental, primarily for transients, with common hallways for all rooms on the
same floor.
   LOT. A parcel of land held in single or joint ownership occupied or to be
occupied by one or more principal buildings and accessory buildings, including
the open spaces required under this chapter. The area and depth of a LOT
abutting a street shall be determined by measurements to the street line.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more intersecting public or private
streets or at the point of abrupt change of direction of a single street (an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees).
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by buildings.
   LOT LINE. A line forming the front, rear or side boundary of a lot.
   LOT SIZE. The area of a lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines at the front yard setback
line.
   MASSAGE. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The service provided by a massage therapist as licensed by
the commonwealth.
   MEDICAL CLINIC. A health care facility devoted to inpatient or outpatient
medical care.
   METHADONE CLINIC. A clinic established for the dispensing of methadone
(Dolophine), to those who abuse opiate drugs.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling constructed in
accordance with the specifications of the state as stated in law, intended for
permanent occupancy contained in one unit, or in two units designed to be
joined into one integral unit, capable of again being separated for repeated
towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations. It shall be considered
a single-family detached dwelling.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home, which is leased by the park owner to
the occupants of the mobile home erected on the lot.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for non-transient use,
consisting of two or more mobile home lots.
   MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units where a majority of such units open individually and
directly to the outside, and where a garage is attached or a parking space is
conveniently located to each unit, all for the temporary use by automobile
tourists or transients.
   MUNICIPAL USE. A land use owned and maintained by the borough or a municipal
authority and including such uses as a library, park, playground or
administrative or equipment storage building.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   NO-IMPACT HOME-BASED BUSINESS.
      (1)   A business or commercial activity administered or conducted as an
accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a residential dwelling
and which involves no customer, client or patient traffic, whether vehicular or
pedestrian, pickup, delivery or removal functions to or from the premises, in
excess of those normally associated with residential use.
      (2)   The business or commercial activity must satisfy the following
requirements.
         (a)   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential
use of the property and surrounding residential uses.
         (b)   The business shall employ no employees other than family members
residing in the dwelling.
         (c)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature.
         (d)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use,
including, but not limited to, parking, signs or lights.
         (e)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood.
         (f)   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with residential
use in the neighborhood.
         (g)   The business activity shall be conducted only within the
dwelling and may not occupy more than 25% of the habitable floor area.
         (h)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING, LOT, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, lot, structure or
use which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is
located, but which lawfully existed prior to the enactment of this zoning
chapter. NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES include nonconforming signs.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the commonwealth as a NURSING HOME.
   OPEN SPACE. Ground surface upon which no principal buildings or uses are
permitted.
   PARKING SPACE. A space within a building or on a lot, used for the parking
of a motor vehicle.
   PARTY WALL. A wall used or adopted for joint service between two buildings.
   PERSONAL CARE HOME. A facility licensed as a PERSONAL CARE HOME by the
commonwealth, specifically a residence or residences that provide shelter,
meals, supervision and assistance with personal care tasks, typically for older
people, or people with physical, behavioral health or cognitive disabilities
who are unable to care for themselves but do not need nursing home or medical
care.
   PREMISES. A descriptive word to include all improvements, buildings
structures and land on or within a lot.
   PRESCHOOL INSTITUTIONAL. Care furnished in churches during religious
services, care in public or private elementary, junior high or high schools,
before, during or after hours of instruction.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main or primary purpose for which any land, structure or
building is designed, arranged or intended, and for which they may be occupied
or maintained under the zoning chapter.
   PROFESSIONAL. Doctor, surgeon, dentist, architect, artist, accountant,
insurance agent, real estate broker, teacher, engineer, lawyer, musician,
surveyor, landscape architect, land planner.
   PUBLIC ROAD. A public thoroughfare, including a street, road, lane, alley or
court, which has been dedicated or deeded to the borough and accepted by it and
which affords the principal means of access to the abutting property.
   PUBLIC UTILITY TRANSMISSIONS TOWER. A structure owned and operated by a
public utility electric company regulated by the Pennsylvania Utility
Commission designated and used to support overhead electricity transmission
lines.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The total width of any land reserved or dedicated as a street,
road, lane, alley or crosswalk.
   SCREEN. Vegetative material, fence and the like planted or constructed to
screen the buildings and/or structures and uses on the lot on which the screen
is located from the view of people on adjoining properties.
   SHED. A building used for indoor storage but not used for storage of motor
vehicles or hazardous or toxic materials, other than fuel for lawnmowers and
appliances.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area within which no vision obstructing object is
permitted above a height of three feet and below a height of ten feet.
   SIGN. Any structure, wall or other outdoor surface, or any device or part
thereof, which displays or includes any letter, word, model, banner, flag,
pennant, insignia, device or other representations used for announcement,
direction or advertisement.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than upon the
premises where the sign is displayed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession or
industry conducted on the premises or to products sold, manufactured or
assembled upon the same premises upon which it is displayed.
   SIGN, DYNAMIC. A sign with characteristics that appear to have movement or
that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing and
replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or change
is in the display, the sign structure itself or any other component of the
sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method allowing
the sign face to change the image without having to physically or mechanically
replace its components. This includes any rotating, revolving, moving,
flashing, blinking or animated display, rotating panels, LED lights manipulated
through digital input, or any other method or technology allowing the sign face
to present a series of images.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.
      (1)   ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar collection system consisting
of one or more roof- and/or ground-mounted solar collector devices and solar
related equipment, which has a rated capacity of less than or equal to ten
kilowatts (for electricity) or rated storage volume of the system of less than
or equal to 240 gallons or that has a collector area of less than or equal to
1,000 square feet (for thermal), and is intended to primarily reduce on-site
consumption of utility power. A system is considered an ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY
SYSTEM only if it supplies electrical or thermal power solely for on-site use,
except that when a property upon which the facility is installed also receives
electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power
generated and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the utility
company.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. An area of land or other area used
for a solar collection system principally used to capture solar energy and
convert it to electrical energy. PRINCIPAL SOLAR ENERGY PRODUCTION FACILITIES
consist of one or more freestanding ground, or roof mounted solar collector
devices, solar related equipment and other accessory structures and buildings
including light reflectors, concentrators and heat exchangers, substations,
electrical infrastructure, transmission lines and other appurtenant structures
and facilities, which has a rated capacity of more ten kilowatts (for
electricity) or rated storage volume of the system of more than 240 gallons or
that has a collector area of more than 1,000 square feet (for thermal).
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted in a particular district by the Zoning
Hearing Board, to occupy or use land and/or a building or structure erected
thereon for a specific purpose in accordance with this chapter, when such use
is not permitted by right.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. See §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement, but
not a cellar, shall be deemed to be a STORY. Each level of a split level
building, excluding cellars, shall be considered a ONE-HALF STORY.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way, excluding driveways, intended for
use as a means of vehicular and pedestrian circulation which provides a means
of access to abutting property. The word STREET includes thoroughfare, avenue,
boulevard, court, drive, expressway, highway, service street (alley), lane and
road or similar terms.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The lot dimension measured along the street line or right-
of-way line of any street or highway abutting a lot.
   STREET LINE. The dividing line between a lot and, the outside bounds of a
public street, road or highway right-of-way legally open or officially plotted
by a municipality or higher governmental authority, between a lot and the
outside boundary of a street shown on a recorded subdivision or land
development plan, or between a lot and a private street, road or way over
which, the owners or tenants of two or more lots held in single and separate
ownership have a right-of-way.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   SWIMMING POOL. An erected or constructed pool used for swimming or bathing
which has a depth in any part of 24 inches or more, includes in-ground, above-
ground, on-ground, permanent construction and inflatable/collapsible pools.
This definition does not include prefabricated pools that are accessory to
single-family detached homes, less than 24 inches deep, hold less than 5,000
gallons and are situated entirely on- or above-ground.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land, sign, structure or building is
designed, arranged, intended or for which it may be occupied or maintained, or
any activity, occupation, business or operation which may be carried on,
thereon or therein. The term permitted use or its equivalent shall not be
deemed to include any nonconforming use.
   VARIANCE. A waiver, granted by the Zoning Hearing Board, from the terms and
conditions of this chapter where literal enforcement would create unnecessary
hardship and when granting of the waiver would not be contrary to the public
interest.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.
      (1)   ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, tower and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of less than or equal to 100 kilowatts
and is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A
system is considered an ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEM only if it supplies
electrical power solely for on-site use, except that when a parcel on which the
system is installed also receives electrical power supplied by a utility
company, excess electrical power generated and not presently needed for on-site
use may be used by the utility company.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY. An area of land or other area used
for a wind energy conversion system principally used to capture wind energy and
convert it to electrical energy. PRINCIPAL WIND ENERGY PRODUCTION FACILITIES
consist of one or more wind turbines, tower and associated control or
conversion electronics and other accessory structures and buildings including
substations, electrical infrastructure, transmission lines and other
appurtenant structures and facilities, which has a rated capacity of more than
100 kilowatts.
   YARD. The required open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building.
The space shall be open and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, and not less in depth or width than the
minimum required in each zoning district.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. The required open space between the street line and the
principal building on a lot, extending the full width of a lot.
      (2)   REAR YARD. The required open space between the rear lot line and
the principal building on a lot, extending the full width of the lot.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. The required open space between a side lot line and the
principal building on a lot, extending from the front line to the rear line of
the principal building.
   ZONING HEARING BOARD. Borough of Topton Zoning Hearing Board.
   ZONING OFFICER. Borough of Topton Zoning Officer.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Borough of Topton zoning regulations, as codified in this
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, as referenced in §
154.002 and as from time to time amended.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.035 TYPES OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the borough is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   R-1 Suburban Residential District;
   (B)   R-2 Urban Residential District;
   (C)   R-2A Urban Residential District;
   (D)   R-3 Mixed Use;
   (E)   C-1 Commercial District;
   (F)   I-G Institutional-Government District;
   (G)   I-1 Industrial District;
   (H)   I-1A Industrial-Residential Overlay District;
   (I)   PO Parking Overlay District;
   (J)   RBO Riparian Buffer Overlay District; and
   (K)   WSO Weis Street Overlay District.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.036 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be as shown on the
official zoning map of the borough, which shall be located in the Borough Hall.
The official zoning map and all notations, references and data shown thereon
are hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be so labeled and identified by the
signature of the President of the Borough Council, attested by the Secretary of
said Council, and bear the seal of the borough under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the official zoning map of the Borough of
Topton adopted July 13, 2015” to include the date of adoption.
   (C)   If an amendment is made to the official zoning map, an entry
indicating the change made and the date of any change shall be made on the map
and the entry shall include the signatures of the President and Secretary of
the Borough Council.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.037 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES - RULES FOR INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately coinciding
with the centerlines of streets, highways or alleys, such centerlines shall be
construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately coinciding
with plotted lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such
boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are indicated as being approximately
parallel to the center or right-of- way lines of streets or highways, such
district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel to the center or
right-of-way lines and at such distances from the center or right-of-way lines
as is indicated on the official zoning map. Distances not specifically
indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of map.
   (D)   Where district boundaries are indicated as being approximately
perpendicular to the right-of-way lines of streets or highways, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being perpendicular to the right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following borough limits shall
be construed as following such limits.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (G)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (F) above shall be so construed.
   (H)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (G) above, the Zoning Hearing Board shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   (I)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the effective date of this chapter, at the election of the
property owner the regulations of either zoning district may be extended a
distance of not more than 30 feet beyond the district boundary line into the
remaining portion of the lot.   
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.038 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereafter provided in this chapter, no building, structure
or land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure or part thereof
shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered except in
conformity with all the regulations specified within this chapter for the
district in which the building, structure or land is located.
   (B)   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed or structurally altered without the issuance of a building permit
and/or certificate of use and occupancy by the Zoning Officer.
   (C)   No part of a yard, other open space or off-street parking or loading
space required in connection with one structure, building or use of the land
shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or
loading space similarly required for any other structure, building, or use of
the land except as permitted or required by this chapter or other borough
ordinance or regulations.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth in
this chapter. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (E)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the borough shall be
considered to be an R-1 District until otherwise classified.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.050 R-1 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide for the maintenance and orderly expansion
at similar densities and dwelling types of several residential areas in the
borough.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in an R-1 District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1; and
      (2)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board: as indicated
in
Table 1.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.051 WSO - WEIS STREET OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent.
      (1)   The Weis Street Overlay District is established as a special
overlay to the underlying zoning districts, for all properties situated along
Weis Street from the township line at the intersection of Weis Street with
Locust Street to the property line between Brandywine Heights Elementary School
and the western property line of the property on the northwest corner of Weis
Street and Callowhill Street.
      (2)   The objectives and specific intent of this overlay zoning district
are as follows:
         (a)   To establish reasonable standards of performance and to
encourage adaptive re-use development of appropriate buildings and lands within
the borough as a conditional use;
         (b)   To provide regulations specifically tailored to encourage and
promote the rehabilitation of older non-used and under-utilized industrial,
commercial and institutional buildings;
         (c)   To provide for a mix of residential and neighborhood-oriented
commercial uses within said adaptive re-use developments which promote the
economic revitalization of the borough;
         (d)   To promote the retention of older buildings and lands which
enhance the image and preserve the heritage of the borough; and
         (e)   To provide locations for neighborhood-oriented business and
related activities for the use and convenience of area and district consumers
at a scale which is in concert with the existing residential and nonresidential
development in the area. The uses are intended as low-impact uses which shall
not have detrimental or adverse effects on the surrounding community and shall
not impact negatively its current character.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in the WSO District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others: as indicated on
Table 1.
   (C)   Uses permitted by conditional use. As indicated on
Table 1, subject to the following:
      (1)   Indoor place of amusement or recreation, subject to hours
restrictions to be determined by Borough Council;
      (2)   Restaurant or café, not to exceed 600 square feet of gross floor
area;
      (3)   Retail and wholesale sale of goods in a building not to exceed
2,000 square feet of gross floor area, selling antiques, appliances, beverages,
books (but not an adult bookstore), clothing, confections, pharmaceuticals, dry
goods, flowers, food, furniture, gifts, hardware, jewelry, newspapers, notions,
periodicals, personal, office and household supplies, stationery and pre-
packaged tobacco products;
      (4)   Repair shops for goods permitted to be sold by division (C)(3)
above, excluding automotive and combustion engine repairs, unless the property
has a prior variance, special exception or is a pre-existing nonconforming use
which includes automotive and/or combustion engine repairs; and
      (5)   Dwelling unit in combination with a commercial use (up to four)
subject to specific performance standards.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2, subject to the following.
      (1)   In cases where an existing building is being re-used in a manner
which does not change the footprint of the building, and the existing building
does not conform to the setback requirements in the underlying zoning district,
a permanent screening buffer shall be provided as determined by Borough
Council.
      (2)   In cases where an existing building is being completely or
partially razed, or where the footprint of an existing building is being
altered, the new building, building addition or renovated structure shall,
under no circumstances have any greater nonconformity from the required
setbacks in the underlying zoning district than the structure being replaced or
altered.
   (E)   Performance standards for conditional uses. See §§
154.075 through
154.100 for additional requirements.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.052 R-2 AND R2-A URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide for the maintenance and expansion of the
higher density residential areas within the borough.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in an R-2 District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Apartment buildings, two-family attached dwellings and townhouse
subject to:
         (a)   1.   Not less than 15% of the total area of the development
shall be permanently set aside for noncommercial common open space purposes,
such as park or recreation. The common open space areas shall be suitable for
the designated purpose; and
            2.   Written agreements satisfactory to and approved by the borough
shall be made for the perpetual preservation and maintenance of the common open
space areas. The written agreements shall be submitted to the borough at the
time of submission of a preliminary subdivision or land development plan and
shall be recorded before a zoning permit shall be issued by the borough. The
applicant may offer the common open space areas for dedication to the borough
upon mutually acceptable terms. Acceptance of such offered dedication shall be
at the borough’s sole discretion.
         (b)   The maximum length of an apartment building, a continuous
grouping of townhouses or a continuous grouping of two-family attached
dwellings shall be 160 feet. The minimum width of each townhouse shall be 18
feet.
      (3)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board: as indicated
on
Table 1.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.053 R-3 MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide for the maintenance and expansion of the
highest density areas within the borough that are substantially residential in
character but either have a mix of uses or are most suitable to hosting a mix
of uses because of the predominant density of structures, current land uses and
small parcel sizes.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right.
      (1)   Land and buildings in an R-3 District may be used for the purposes
indicated on Table 1 and for no others; and
      (2)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board: as indicated
on
Table 1.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.054 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide for the orderly expansion of general
commercial uses in areas where a nucleus of such uses already exists. Dwelling
units are allowed within the same buildings as commercial uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in the C-1 District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Plumbing, heating, carpentry, masonry and similar shops of skilled
tradesmen;
      (3)   Retail and wholesale sale of goods such as, but not limited to,
antiques, appliances, beverages, books, clothing, confections, medicines, dry
goods, flowers, food, furniture, gifts, hardware, jewelry, liquor, newspapers,
notions, paint, periodicals, personal and household supplies, stationery and
tobacco;
      (4)   Personal and household service establishments, such as but not
limited to, barber shops, beauty shops, laundromats, laundry and dry cleaning
shops and tailor shops;
      (5)   Dwelling unit in combination with a commercial use, subject to:
         (a)   All dwelling units shall be located on a story above those
stories used for commercial uses, except that a dwelling unit occupied by a
proprietor or a caretaker, watchman or similar employee may be located on the
same story as a commercial use;
         (b)   When a new building is constructed, in addition to those parking
spaces required for the commercial use, two off-street parking spaces shall be
provided per dwelling;
         (c)   When a new building is constructed, in addition to the required
minimum lot area for the commercial use, an additional 1,500 square feet of lot
area shall be provided for each dwelling unit; and
         (d)   The number of dwelling units shall not exceed four.
      (6)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Apartment buildings, two-family attached dwellings and townhouse
subject to:
         (a)   1.   Not less than 15% of the total area of the development
shall be permanently set aside for noncommercial common open space purposes,
such as park or recreation. The common open space area shall be suitable for
the designated purpose; and
            2.   Written agreements satisfactory to and approved by the Borough
Council shall be made for the perpetual preservation and maintenance of the
common open space areas. The written agreements shall be submitted to the
borough at the time of submission of a preliminary subdivision or land
development plan and shall be recorded before a zoning permit shall be issued
by the borough. The applicant may offer the common open space areas for
dedication to the borough upon mutually acceptable terms. Acceptance of such
offered dedication shall be at the borough’s sole discretion.
         (b)   The maximum length of an apartment building, a continuous
grouping of townhouses or a continuous grouping of two-family attached
dwellings shall be 160 feet. The minimum width of each townhouse shall be 18
feet.
      (3)   Repair garage, subject to:
         (a)   All repair activities shall be performed within a building;
         (b)   All painting shall be performed within a fully enclosed, well
ventilated area; and
         (c)   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles (which shall be under
repair and licensed), and similar articles shall be stored within a building.
      (4)   Motor vehicle service station, subject to:
         (a)   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles (which shall be under
repair and licensed), and similar articles shall be stored within a building;
and
         (b)   All repair activities shall be carried out within a building.
      (5)   Car wash, subject to:
         (a)   No water used in the washing of cars shall be discharged
directly into unfiltered storm sewers, onto public sidewalks or roads or onto
other properties;
         (b)   Car washing activities shall be carried out within a building;
and
         (c)   An approach drive or parking area to accommodate a minimum of
four cars per bay shall be constructed.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.055 I-G INSTITUTIONAL - GOVERNMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide for the maintenance and expansion of
institutional and governmental uses where a nucleus of such uses already
exists.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right.
      (1)   Land and buildings in an I-G District may be used for the purposes
indicated on
Table 1 and for no others; and
      (2)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board: as indicated
on
Table 1.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.056 L-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide an area where a variety of industrial and
office uses, as well as certain commercial, may locate.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in the I-1 District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Testing, cleaning, production, packaging, fabrication, processing,
assembly, manufacture, compounding and bottling of goods and materials;
      (3)   Repair garage, subject to those conditions listed in §
154.054(C)(3);
      (4)   Motor vehicle service station, subject to those conditions listed
in §
154.054(C)(4);
      (5)   Car wash, subject to those conditions listed in §
154.054(C)(5); and
      (6)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Commercial communications facilities having a tower height up to
175 feet shall be allowed as a use by special exception, providing all
requirements are met.
         (a)   General requirements.
            1.   Commercial communications antenna. Commercial communications
antenna may be placed on an existing commercial communications tower, public
utility transmission tower or placed on any structure other than a single-
family detached dwelling, duplex dwelling, townhouse dwelling or any
residential accessory structure. A structure shall not include, for these
purposes, concrete or macadam pavement and/or a concrete slab.
            2.   Dimensional requirements. A commercial communications facility
is permitted as a sole use on a stand-alone lot or a lot divided off in a
subdivision or land development application subject to the following
dimensional requirements:
               a.   The right-of-way from public street to tower site must be a
minimum of 24 feet in width; and
               b.   The maximum height of the height of tower (a defined term)
shall not exceed 175 feet.
         (b)   Combination of uses. Combined with another use, a commercial
communications facility may be permitted on an improved property with an
existing nonresidential use or on a vacant parcel in combination with another
use, subject to the following conditions.
            1.   Existing use. The existing use on the property may be any
permitted nonresidential use in the applicable district or any lawful
nonconforming use and need not be affiliated with the commercial communications
tower.
            2.   Minimum lot areas. The minimum lot area shall comply with the
requirements for the applicable district and shall be the area needed to
accommodate the tower and guy wires (if used), the equipment building, security
fence and buffer planting.
            3.   Minimum setbacks. The tower, telecommunications equipment
building, guy wires and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district set back requirements, and shall comply with the requirements for the
zoning district for principal uses.
            4.   Facilities is located on a property with another principal
use. Where the commercial communications facilities is located on a property
with another principal use, vehicular access to the facility shall, whenever
feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use. The
applicant shall present documentation that the owner of the property has
granted an easement for the proposed facility which shall be recorded as
provided by law.
         (c)   Combined with an existing structure. An antenna with or without
a commercial communications tower for commercial communications may be attached
to an existing structure or building except a residential use subject to the
following conditions.
            1.   Maximum height. The maximum height of the tower set forth
herein shall apply.
            2.   Separate building. If the applicant proposes to locate the
commercial communications equipment in a separate building not included within
the compound enclosing the commercial communications tower and fencing, the
building shall comply with the minimum requirements for the zoning district.
            3.   Security fence. A six-foot height security fence shall
surround any separate commercial communications equipment building.
            4.   Vehicular access. Vehicular access to the commercial
communications facility shall not interfere with the parking or vehicular
circulation on the site for the principal use.
         (d)   Additional requirements.
            1.   Site plan. A facility plan shall be prepared and submitted for
any proposed commercial communications facility pursuant to applicable zoning
and subdivision and land development requirements regarding preparation of a
site plan. No site plan is required for commercial communications antenna which
are co-located on an existing commercial tower.
            2.   Landscaping. The following landscaping shall be required to
screen the facility. Any combination of existing vegetation, topography, walls,
decorative fences or other features instead of landscaping may be permitted, if
they achieve the same degree or screening as the required landscaping. If the
antenna is mounted on an existing structure, and other equipment is housed
inside an existing structure, landscaping shall not be required.
               a.   An evergreen or hedge screen shall be required to surround
the facility. The screen can be either a hedge (planted three feet on center
maximum) or a row of evergreen trees (planted ten feet on center maximum). The
screen shall be a minimum height of four feet at maturity.
               b.   In addition, existing vegetation on and around the site
shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible.
               c.   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be
provided for a commercial communication facility.
               d.   A six-foot high security fence with additional two feet of
security wire, including barbed wire shall fence the facilities perimeter.
               e.   In connection with any facility, no signs other than an
owner and occupier identification sign shall be allowed at the tower site, as
specified in §
154.083.
         (e)   Co-location/alternative technology. Availability of suitable
existing towers, other structures, or alternative technology. No new facility
shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Zoning Officer that no existing tower, structure or
alternative technology that does not require the use of towers or structures
can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna. An applicant shall submit
information to the Zoning Officer related to the availability of suitable
existing towers, other structures or alternative technology. Evidence submitted
to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna may consist of any of the
following.
            1.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
            2.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
            3.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient
structural strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related
equipment.
            4.   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause the interferences with
the applicant’s approved antenna.
            5.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
            6.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low-powered transmitters/receivers attached to a wire
line system, is unsuitable.
         (f)   Separation distance between facilities. In order to avoid the
proliferation of commercial communications facilities and to insure the desired
goals of co-location and cooperation, there shall be a separation distance
which shall be applicable for and measured between the proposed and existing
facilities. The separation distances shall be measured by drawing or following
a straight line between the base of the existing tower and the proposed base,
pursuant to a facility plan, of the proposed tower. The separation distances
(listed in linear feet) shall be as shown on
Table 1 (refer to Ord. 4-1998).
         (g)   Separation from dwelling unit. A freestanding commercial
communications tower shall not be located within 500 feet of a dwelling unit.
         (h)   Removal of commercial communications facilities.
            1.   Generally. If a commercial communications facility remains
unused for a period of 12 consecutive months, the owner or operator shall
dismantle and remove the facility within six months of notice to do such by the
borough. Abandonment takes place when electrical service to the site has been
discontinued for a period of 12 months. Further, the owner or operator of the
facility shall post security in a form acceptable to the borough in a
sufficient amount to cover the facility removal and site cleanup prior to the
issuance of any permits to construct or use said facility. The security shall
be utilized by the borough in the event that the owner or operator of the
facility fails to remove the facility within six months of the aforesaid notice
by the borough to remove the facility.
            2.   Exemption. A commercial communications tower or antenna
necessary for and clearly used for emergency communications by a police
department, fire company, emergency medical service and other similar public
safety organizations is exempt from the requirements of this section.
         (i)   Administration. The applicant for commercial communications
facilities shall submit the following documentation to the borough along with
the application for the zoning permit, subdivision and land development
approval:
            1.   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA):
               a.   Documentation of FAA approval. Documentation of FAA
approval, if required, for commercial communication towers or antennas shall be
provided. Commercial communication towers or antennas shall meet the
requirements of 14 C.F.R. § 77.13(a), as amended;
               b.   Artificial lighting. No commercial communications tower or
antenna shall be artificially lighted except when required and approved by the
FAA; and
               c.   Airport coordination. The applicant for a proposed
commercial communications facility located within a five-mile radius of an
existing airport shall submit documentation that said airport was notified of
its intent to place such structure(s). In addition, all new commercial
communications facilities applications shall be forwarded by the applicant to
the reading regional airport authority for the authority’s comments.
            2.   Federal Communications Commission (FCC):
               a.   Documentation that the commercial communications company is
licensed by the FCC shall be provided;
               b.   Documentation of FCC application for approval for the
proposed commercial communication facility shall be provided; and
               c.   Certification from a registered professional engineer that
the tower and facility meets the construction standard of the Borough Building
Code, and that appropriate anti-climbing devices are built into any proposed
tower.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. As indicated on
Table 2.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.057 I-1A INDUSTRIAL-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To provide an area where a variety of industrial and
office uses, as well as certain commercial, public and residential uses, may
locate.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in the I-1A District may
be used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   As indicated on
Table 1;
      (2)   Testing, cleaning, production, packaging, fabrication, processing,
assembly, manufacture, compounding and bottling of goods and materials;
      (3)   Repair garage, subject to those conditions listed in §
154.054(C)(3);
      (4)   Motor vehicle service station, subject to those conditions listed
in §
154.054(C)(4);
      (5)   Car wash, subject to those conditions listed in §
154.054(C)(5); and
      (6)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses as defined in §§
154.075 through
154.100.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. The following uses are permitted
when special exceptions are granted by the Zoning Hearing Board: as indicated
on
Table 1.
   (D)   Area, yard and height requirements. Same as the underlying district.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.058 RBO RIPARIAN BUFFER OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Specific intent. To maintain and improve surface water quality by
reducing the entry of detrimental substances, including nutrients, sediment,
organic matter, pesticides and other harmful substances that reach
watercourses, wetlands and surface and subsurface water bodies; to reduce the
entry of detrimental substances by restricting development and uses in riparian
areas that intercept surface water runoff, wastewater; to attenuate flooding
and reduce soil loss; to improve and maintain the safety, reliability and
adequacy of the water supply for domestic, agricultural, commercial, industrial
and recreational use; to conserve headwater areas, groundwater recharge zones,
floodway, floodplain, springs, seeps, streams, wetlands; to regulate the use,
location, engineering and maintenance of development to be consistent with the
purposes and intent of this subchapter and accepted conservation practices and
to work with the carrying capacity of existing natural resources.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The RBO provisions shall apply to the bed and banks of the Toad
Creek within the I-G District and as further delineated on the borough zoning
map, except as further clarified below in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   The provisions shall apply in accordance with division (B)(1) above
where any application for special exception, conditional use, variance,
subdivision, land development or building or zoning permit is required, or when
a violation of the provisions of this subchapter require an enforcement action.
      (3)   The provisions shall not apply to the footprints of existing
primary and accessory uses, including, but not limited to, all agricultural
uses and research related thereto, buildings, transportation facilities,
fences, lawns, gardens, utility lines, roads, driveways, sidewalks, bikeways,
decks, piers, water, septic and sewage supply facilities and their related
appurtenances (well houses, utility pump and lift stations, manholes and the
like).
      (4)   For lands lying within a State DEP-designated special protection
watershed, the riparian buffer requirements of § 102.14 of Chapter 102 (Erosion
and Sedimentation Pollution Control Rules and Regulations) of the commonwealth,
shall apply when more restrictive than the regulations provided herein.
      (5)   As hereinafter further described, RBO Zone 1 shall be a minimum of
25 feet from the defined edge of the Toad Creek at solid bank full flow,
measured perpendicular lines on the soil survey maps to the edge of the
watercourse.
      (6)   RBO Zone 2 shall be a minimum of 60 feet from the outer edge of
Zone 1, measured perpendicular to the edge of Zone 1, or equal to the extent of
the 100-year floodplain, or 25 feet beyond the outer edge of a wetland along
the stream, whichever is greater (the total width of Zones 1 and 2 equals 150
feet plus the width of the stream).
      (7)   The applicant shall identify watercourses, wetlands and/or water
bodies on and abutting the applicant’s site, and locating these features
accurately on the applicant’s plans. The identification of such water features
shall be subject to the review and approval of the borough.
   (C)   Uses permitted by right. Land and buildings in the RBO District may be
used for the following purposes and for no others:
      (1)   Zone 1.
         (a)   Open space uses that are primarily passive in character shall be
permitted to extend into Zone 1, including wildlife sanctuaries, nature
preserves, forest preserves, fishing areas, passive areas of public and private
parklands, reforestation and streambank stabilization;
         (b)   Forestry operations approved by County Conservation District;
         (c)   Corridor crossings:
            1.   Agricultural crossings by farm vehicles and livestock; and
            2.   Driveways, roadways, recreational trails, railroads and
utilities, subject to mitigation measures described below.
      (2)   Zone 2.
         (a)   Uses allowed in Zone 1;
         (b)   Accessory structures permitted in the underlying district have
an area less than or equal to 225 square feet;
         (c)   Passive uses such as camps, campgrounds, picnic areas;
         (d)   Active recreation uses, such as ball fields, playgrounds and
courts, provided these uses are designed in a manner to prevent concentrated
flow of stormwater runoff, subject to mitigation measures described below; and
         (e)   Centralized sewer and/or water lines and public utility
transmission lines running along the corridor. When proposed as part of a
subdivision or land development, installing the lines shall be subject to
mitigation measures described below.
   (D)   Uses permitted by special exception. None.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. Same as the underlying district, plus the following:
      (1)   Clearing existing vegetation, except where necessary to prepare
land for a permitted use;
      (2)   Storage of hazardous or noxious materials;
      (3)   Use of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and/or other chemicals
in excess of prescribed industry standards or the recommendations of the County
Conservation District;
      (4)   Motor or wheeled vehicle traffic in any area not designed to
adequately accommodate the type and volume;
      (5)   Parking lots;
      (6)   Any type of permanent structure, including fences, except those
permitted above;
      (7)   Subsurface sewage disposal areas; and
      (8)   Stormwater basins, including berms and outfall facilities.
   (F)   Mitigation measures.
      (1)   Uses permitted above involving corridor crossings or other
encroachments within the RBO shall be mitigated by increasing the width of Zone
2 as replacement for the area lost due to the encroachment or disturbance, so
that the total corridor area of Zones 1 and 2 for each applicable side of the
creek is equal to that required.
      (2)   The corridor area is the product of the corridor width required by
§
154.057 and the total length of each applicable side of the creek. Perimeter
shall be used in place of length for determining the wetland buffer area. The
increased width shall be evenly spread throughout the corridor to the maximum
extent possible.
   (G)   Area, yard and height requirements. Same as the underlying district,
subject to the following: at least half of any required yard setback for any
individual lot shall be entirely outside of the RBO.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.059 TABLE 1: USES.
Table 1: Uses
Key
P - Use
permitted
by right
CU -
Conditional
use                                                                    Indust.- Weis
SE -        Suburban Urban  Mixed Commercial Institutional- Industrial Resid.   St.
Special     Resid.   Resid. Use              Govt.                     Overlay  Overlay
exception
use
A -
Accessory
use
N - Not
permitted
Uses        R1       R2-2A  R3    C-1        I-G            I-1        I-1A     WSO     Notes
Table 1: Uses
Key
P - Use permitted by right                                                                              Indust.- Weis
CU - Conditional use                         Suburban Urban  Mixed Commercial Institutional- Industrial Resid.   St.
SE - Special exception use                   Resid.   Resid. Use              Govt.                     Overlay  Overlay
A - Accessory use
N - Not permitted
Uses                                         R1       R2-2A  R3    C-1        I-G            I-1        I-1A     WSO     Notes
Commercial
   Adult oriented (per Ord. 1982-5, §    N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
154.094(B))
   Amusement/recreation, indoor           N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU      (1)
   Assisted living facilities             N        N      SE    SE         N              SE         SE
   Banks                                  N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU
   Bed and breakfast inn                  N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Betting                                N        N      N     SE         N              P          P
   Business offices                       N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU      (1)
   BYOB club                              N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   BYOB restaurant                        N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Car wash                               N        N      N     SE         N              P          P                (1)
   Club or lodge                          N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Day care center, accessory             A        A      A     A          A              A          A
   Day care center, adult                 N        N      N     SE         N              SE         SE
   Day care center, child                 N        N      SE    SE         N              SE         SE
   Drive-through service                  N        N      N     A          N              A          A                (1)
   Dwellings combined with commercial     N        N      SE    P          N              SE         SE       CU      (1)
   Funeral homes                          N        SE     SE    P          N              P          P
   Gas station                            N        N      N     SE         N              P          P
   Gas station w/convenience store        N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Gym, fitness, studio (dance, exercise, N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU
MA)
   Home occupation                        P        P      P     P          N              N          N
   Home occupation (no-impact)            P        P      P     P          N              N          N
   Hotel or motel                         N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Massage therapy, licensed              N        SE     SE    P          N              P          P
   Medical clinic                         N        SE     SE    P          N              P          P
   Medical office                         N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU
   Motor vehicle repair                   N        N      N     SE         N              P          P                (1)
   Motor vehicle sales                    N        N      N     SE         N              P          P
   Motor vehicle service station          N        N      N     SE         N              P          P                (1)
   Nursing home, convalescent, retirement N        SE     SE    P          N              P          P
   Office building                        N        N      P     P          N              P          P
   Parking, off-street (principal)        N        N      N     SE         N              P          P
   Personal and household service         N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU
   Professional office                    N        SE     P     P          N              P          P        CU
   Restaurant, café, tavern              N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU      (1)
   Retail and wholesale repair            N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU      (1)
   Retail and wholesale sales             N        N      N     P          N              P          P        CU      (1)
   Self-storage facility                  N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Shopping center                        N        N      N     SE         N              P          P
   Studio                                 N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Theater or civic and/or cultural       N        N      N     P          N              P          P
   Trade school                           N        N      SE    P          N              P          P
   (Trade) shops - P, H, carpentry, mason N        N      N     P          N              N          N
   Veterinary office w/kennel             N        SE     SE    P          N              P          P                (1)
Industrial
   Agricultural operation                 N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Bottling                               N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Commercial communication facility      N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE               (1)
   Fabricating, processing, assembly      N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Forestry                               P        P      P     P          P              P          P                (2)
   Helistop                               N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Junkyard (includes scrap yard)         N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Kennel                                 N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Lumber yard                            N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Manufacturing                          N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Metal processes                        N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Mineral extraction, process, stockpile N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE               (3)
   Personal care home                     N        N      SE    SE         N              SE         SE
   Printing, publishing                   N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Recycling collection, privately owned  N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Recycling collection, publicly owned   N        N      N     N          SE             P          P
   Recycling processing center            N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Research facility                      N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Slaughterhouse or stockyard            N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Solar energy system (principal)        N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Solid waste transfer/energy            N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Testing, cleaning, production, packaginN        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Tires, bulk storage                    N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Treatment center                       N        N      N     SE         N              N          N
   Trucking terminal                      N        N      N     N          N              P          N
   Wholesaling, warehousing               N        N      N     N          N              P          P
   Wind energy facility (principal)       N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
Public
   Airports and related uses              N        N      N     N          CU             CU         CU
   Cemetery                               SE       N      N     N          SE             N          N
   College or university                  N        N      SE    P          P              N          P
   Correctional (jail, work release)      N        N      N     N          N              SE         SE
   Fire station                           P        N      N     P          p              P          P                (1)
   Government office                      N        N      N     P          P              N          N        CU
   Heliport                               N        N      N     N          N              CU         CU
   Hospital                               N        N      N     SE         SE             SE         SE
   Library                                N        P      N     P          P              N          N        CU
   Municipal                              P        P      P     P          P              N          P
   Places of worship                      P        P      P     P          P              N          N                (1)
   Playground, public or non-profit       P        P      P     N          P              N          N
   Pre-school institutional               SE       SE     SE    P          P              N          P
   Recreation, commercial, for-profit     N        N      P     P          N              N          P
   Recreation, noncommercial, non-profit  P        P      P     P          P              N          P
   School (for-profit, rehab, remedial)   N        N      SE    P          N              N          P                (1)
   School (not profit, rehab, remedial)   N        P      P     P          P              N          P                (1)
Residential
   Apartment buildings                    N        P      P     SE         N              N          SE       CU      (1)
   Boarding/rooming                       N        N      SE    SE         N              N          SE
   Cluster development (townhomes)        N        SE     SE    N          N              N          SE               (1)
   Conversion, residential (see §        N        N      N     SE         N              N          SE               (1)
154.092)
   Group homes                            N        SE     SE    N          N              N          SE               (1)
   Group homes, age-restricted            N        N      P     N          N              N          P
   Mobile home park                       N        N      N     N          N              N          N                (5)
   Single-family detached                 P        P      P     N          N              N          N
   Single-family semi-detached            N        P      P     N          N              N          N        CU
   Solar energy system (accessory)        A        A      A     A          N              A          A                (1)
   Student housing                        N        N      SE    N          N              N          SE               (1)
   Swimming pools, household              A        A      A     N          N              N          N
   Townhomes (row homes)                  N        P      P     SE         N              N          SE               (1)
   Two-family attached                    N        P      P     SE         N              N          SE               (1)
   Two-family detached                    N        P      P     N          N              N          SE       CU
   Two-family semi-detached               N        P      P     N          N              N          SE       CU
   Wind energy system (accessory)         N        A      A     A          N              A          A                (1)
Notes:
(1)   Qualified - see text
(2)   Per 53 P.S. § 10603(f)
(3)   Per 53 P.S. § 10603(i)
(4)   See text for specific application of overlay districts
(5)   Removed per joint regional comprehensive plan analysis
 
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.060 TABLE 2: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
Table-2: Dimensional Standards
           Maximum                     Minimum
                                                          Side  Side
           Bldg.   Bldg. Imp.  Density Lot  Lot   Bldg.   yard  yard   Rear
           ht.     cover cover         size width setback total (one)  yard (E)
                                                                (A)(E)
Dis-  Use  ft/     %           units/  SF   Feet
trict Type stories             ac.
Table-2: Dimensional Standards
                  Maximum                     Minimum
                                                                          Side
                  Bldg.   Bldg. Imp.          Lot     Lot   Bldg.   Side  yard  Rear
                  ht.     cover cover Density size    width setback yard  (one) yard
                                                                    total (A)   (E)
                                                                          (E)
Dis-  Use Type    ft/     %           units/  SF      Feet
trict             stories             ac.
R-1   Fire                                    1 ac.         30      100   50    50
      station
      Place of                                1 ac.         30      100   50    50
      worship
      All other
      permitted   35 (3)  30                  10,500  90    30      30    15    40
      uses
      Apt bldgs,
R-2   2FA, THs    35 (3)  30    30    10      20,000  18    25            25    25
      (B)
      (in-dvpmnt
      bldgs,                                                25            30    40
      unattached)
      SFD         35 (3)  35                  5,000   50    25      20    10    30
      Nonresid-   35 (3)  35                  5,000   50    25      20    10    30
      ential
      2FD         35 (3)  35                  7,500   60    25      20    10    30
      SFSD        35 (3)  35                  7,500   60    25      20    10    30
      2FSD        35 (3)  35                  15,000  80    25      30    15    30
      All
R-2A  permitted   35 (3)  35                  5,000   50    10      20    10    30
      uses
      All
R-3   permitted   35 (3)  35                  5,000   50    10      20    10    30
      uses
      Apt bldgs,
C-1   2FA, THs    35 (3)  30    35    10      20,000  18    0       0     25    25
      (B)
      (in-dvpmnt
      bldgs,                                                0       0     30    40
      unattached)
      Car wash                                10,000        0
      Commer-                                 +1.500/
      cial w/                                 DU            0
      dwelling
      MV service                              10,000        0
      All other
      permitted   40 (3)  50                  5,000   50    0       12    6     20
      uses
      All
WSO   permitted   C       C     C     B       B       B     C       B     B     B
      uses
      All
I-G   permitted   40 (3)  50    65            5,000   18    0       0     0     25
      uses
      All
I-1   permitted   40 (3)  35    65            1 ac.   125   40      60    30    30
      uses
I-1A  Residential 35 (3)  35                  5,000   50    10      20    10    30
      uses
      All other
      permitted   40 (3)  35    65            1 ac.   125   40      60    30    30
      uses
Notes:
Imp. = Impervious                          SFD = Single-family detached home
2FA = Two-family attached home            MH = Mobile home
2FD = Two-family detached home            MHP = Mobile home park
2FSD = Two-family semi-detached home         MV = Motor vehicle
TH = Town home               SFSA = Single-family semi-attached home
Cluster development = combination of SFD, SFSD, THs per §
154.050(C)
A   The minimum distance between two primary or more structures on the same lot, not
in the same continuous row of structures, shall be 40 feet
B   Same as underlying district
C   Same as underlying district unless otherwise permitted via conditional use
D   See text for more complete application of overlay districts
E   See §
154.078 for special setback regulations for garages and storage sheds
 
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.075 PROHIBITED USES.
   No building may be erected, altered or used, and no lot or premises may be
used for any activity which is noxious, injurious or offensive by reason of
dust, smoke, odor, fumes, noise, vibration, gas, illumination or similar
substances or conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 ACCESS TO BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Every building and structure hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot
adjacent to a public street or have access to a private street approved by the
Borough Council. All buildings and structures shall be so located on lots as to
provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection and required
off-street parking.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.077 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   (A)   In any district, more than one building or structure housing a
permitted or permissible principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided
that the area, yard and other requirements of this chapter pertinent to the
district in which the lot is located shall be met for each building or
structure as though it were on an individual lot, unless otherwise specifically
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Completely detached principal buildings on the same lot shall maintain
the separation distance required by the International Building Code, most
recent edition.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.078 ACCESSORY USES - RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No accessory use shall be permitted on a lot without a primary use.
      (2)   No accessory uses shall be permitted within any required front or
side yard, except the minimum side lot line setback for sheds shall be six feet
or the side line setback achieved by the existing primary structure, whichever
is less, subject to meeting all of the following.
         (a)   The shed is accessory to a permitted residential use.
         (b)   The shed is without a permanent foundation.
         (c)   The shed is one story in height.
         (d)   The shed is a maximum of 350 square feet in size.
      (3)   No accessory uses shall be permitted within any required rear yard,
except:
         (a)   The minimum rear lot line setback for garages shall be zero feet
along an alley;
         (b)   The minimum rear lot line setback for accessory uses of 150
square feet or less shall be ten feet; and
         (c)   The minimum rear lot line setback for sheds shall be six feet,
subject to meeting all of the requirements listed in division (A)(2) above.
      (4)   No activities or accessory uses shall be permitted which create a
public nuisance or interfere with the use of adjacent lots.
      (5)   The maximum height of any accessory building or structure shall not
exceed 50% of the permitted height of the primary structure.
      (6)   Accessory uses include, but are not limited to, animal shelters,
detached garages, swimming pools, greenhouses, storage sheds and tennis courts.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Swimming pool.
         (a)   No swimming pool shall be permitted within a front or side yard.
         (b)   No swimming pool shall be permitted less than 15 feet from any
rear lot line.
         (c)   Private noncommercial swimming pools shall be entirely enclosed
with a permanent barrier or fence not less than four feet in height. Walls of
buildings may serve as part of such barrier or fence. Where pools are
constructed above-ground, that portion of the pool wall extending above the
ground may be included as part of a barrier or fence.
         (d)   All such barriers or fences shall have a gate which can be
securely locked.
         (e)   Above-ground pools shall have a ladder or stairway which can be
removed or rendered unusable and the entrance of the pool shall be capable of
being securely closed to a height of four feet.
         (f)   All pool installations components shall meet IBC requirements.
      (2)   Detached garages.
         (a)   The maximum height shall be 20 feet.
         (b)   The maximum length shall be 36 feet.
         (c)   No temporary structure shall be permitted.
         (d)   Detached garages are not required to be set back from alleys
(service streets) the distances which are specified as the minimum building
setback line requirements in this chapter, but detached garages shall comply
with all requirements of this section.
      (3)   Apartment building, townhouse and two-family attached dwelling
accessory uses. Apartment building, townhouse and two-family attached dwelling
accessory uses shall be restricted to uses designed for residents of the
dwelling units and may include such uses as areas for washing machines and
dryers and vending machines; lockers and storage areas; recreational rooms,
areas and lounges; swimming pools and outdoor recreational areas. One office
per project for the purpose of administering and renting dwelling units may be
established. One “sample” dwelling unit for display purposes shall be permitted
for each type of dwelling unit to be constructed.
      (4)   Solar energy system. 
         (a)   Defined. A building-mounted residential solar energy system as
defined is allowed as a permitted accessory use to any lawful residential use
where listed on Table 1 subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Generally. A system is considered an accessory solar energy
system only if it supplies electrical or thermal power primarily for on-site
use, except that when a property upon which the facility is installed also
receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical
power generated and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the
utility company. The owner of the accessory solar energy system shall provide
written confirmation that the public utility company has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator and
also approves of such connection. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this
requirement.
         (c)   Installed after effective date of this chapter. This section
applies to solar energy systems to be installed and constructed after the
effective date of this chapter, and all applications for solar energy systems
on existing structures or property.
         (d)   Compliance with other regulations. The solar energy system shall
comply with all applicable building and construction codes as amended and any
regulations adopted by the Department of Labor and Industry. The design and
installation of accessory solar energy systems shall conform to applicable
industry standards, including those of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), the American Society for
Testing and Materials (ASTM) or other similar certifying organizations, and
shall comply with the Building Code and with all other applicable fire and life
safety requirements.
         (e)   Manufacturer specifications. The manufacturer specifications
shall be submitted as part of the application.
         (f)   Upgrades. Any upgrades, modifications or changes that materially
alter the size or placement of an existing solar energy system shall comply
with the provisions of this section.
         (g)   Accessory solar energy systems. Accessory solar energy systems
shall be designed and located in order to prevent reflective glare toward any
inhabited structure on adjacent properties as well as adjacent street rights-
of-way.
         (h)   Location. No portion of an accessory solar energy system shall
be located within or above any front yard, along any street frontage, nor
within any required setback of any property.
         (i)   Height. Building- or roof- mounted solar energy systems shall
not exceed the maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes for
the height measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated
systems shall be considered to be mechanical devices and are restricted
consistent with other building-mounted mechanical devices
         (j)   Setback. in addition to the building setback, the collector
surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted or built. Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed
to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
         (k)   Clearance. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be set back
at least three feet from the roof edge and roof ridge line for Fire Department
access.
         (l)   Applications. Plan applications for solar energy systems shall
be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the location of the system on the building or on the
property for a ground-mount system, including the property lines. Applicants
must use an installer who is on DEP’s approved list. For all roof-mounted
systems other than a flat roof the elevation must show the highest finished
slope of the solar collector and the slope of the finished roof surface on
which it is mounted. For flat roof applications a drawing shall be submitted
showing the distance to the roof edge and any parapets on the building and
shall identify the height of the building on the street frontage side, the
shortest distance of the system from the street frontage edge of the building,
and the highest finished height of the solar collector above the finished
surface of the roof.
         (m)   Design. To the extent reasonably possible, the design of the
solar energy system shall use materials, colors and textures that will blend
the system into existing structures and the environment.
         (n)   Written notice. Upon issuance of a zoning permit for a solar
energy system, the Zoning Officer shall provide written notice of the issuance
by first class mail to the owner of record of each adjoining lot along with a
copy of this section of the chapter.
         (o)   New accessory structures or vegetation. When a solar energy
system is installed on a lot, new accessory structures or vegetation
established thereafter on an adjoining lot shall not be located in a manner
that blocks the solar collector access to solar energy, or the solar access
plane, so as to cause a major loss of efficiency. The portion of a solar
collector that is protected is the portion which is located so as not to be
shaded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on December 21 by a
hypothetical minimum 12-foot high obstruction located on the lot line. This
division (B)(4)(o) shall not apply to structures or vegetation existing on an
adjoining lot at the time of the installation of the solar energy system, or
the effective date of this chapter, whichever is later, it shall apply to the
erection of an accessory structure and to the planting of new vegetation and
its subsequent growth on adjoining lots after the installation of the solar
energy system.
         (p)   Installation. Installation of a solar energy system does not
guarantee the creation of a permanent easement for solar access. However,
existing solar energy systems and solar access requirement shall be considered
by the Zoning Officer, Planning Commission and Council when reviewing
applications for land development or subdivision.
         (q)   Burden of proof. It shall be the burden of the owner of a solar
energy system claiming that the erection of an accessory structure or planting
of vegetation is causing a major loss of efficiency to establish all facts
necessary to support the claim, including, but not limited to, the actual power
output of the system prior to the alleged impact, test conditions and
comparable illumination levels, all of which shall be supported by a state-
certified solar energy system installed or a professional engineer.
         (r)   Abandonment. If a solar energy system is inoperable for 12
consecutive months the owner shall be notified that he, she or it must, within
three months of receiving the notice, restore his, her or its system to
operating condition. If the owner fails to restore the system to operating
condition within the six-month time frame, then the owner shall be required, at
his, her or its expense, to remove the solar energy system for safety reasons.
The system then would be subject to the public nuisance provisions of the
municipal code.
      (5)   Wind energy system.
         (a)   Defined. An accessory wind energy system as defined is allowed
as a permitted accessory use to any lawful residential use where listed on
Table 1 subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Maximum number. The maximum number of wind energy systems per
property shall be one.
         (c)   Appearance. Wind turbines shall be a non-obtrusive color, such
as white, off-white or gray.
         (d)   Setback. The base of the tower shall be set back from all
property lines, public rights-of-way and public utility lines a distance equal
to the total extended height. Turbines shall be allowed closer to a property
line than its total extended height if the abutting property owner(s) grants
written permission and the installation poses no interference with public
utility lines or public road and rail rights-of-way.
         (e)   Tower height. Not to exceed the greater of the permitted height
of a communications tower if permitted in the district, or two times the
permitted height of a principal structure on the lot.
         (f)   Sound. Sound produced by the turbine under normal operating
conditions, as measured at the property line, shall not exceed the definition
of nuisance noise. Sound levels, however, may be exceeded during short-term
events out of anyone’s control such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms.
         (g)   Wind turbine equipment. The design and installation of all
accessory wind energy systems shall conform to applicable industry standards,
including those of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI),
Underwriters Laboratories, the American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM), or other similar certifying organizations, and shall comply with the
Building Code and with all other applicable fire and life safety requirements.
The manufacturer specifications shall be submitted as part of the application.
         (h)   Engineered drawings. Building permit applications for accessory
wind energy systems shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind
turbine structure and stamped engineered drawings of the tower, base, footings,
and/or foundation as provided by the manufacturer.
         (i)   Electrical Code compliance. Building permit applications for
accessory wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the
electrical components, as supplied by the manufacturer, in sufficient detail to
allow for a determination that the manner of installation conforms to the
National Electrical Code.
         (j)   Utility notification. No small wind energy system shall be
installed until evidence has been given that the utility company has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
         (k)   Abandonment. If a wind turbine is inoperable for 12 consecutive
months the owner shall be notified that he, she or it must, within three months
of receiving the notice, restore his, her or its system to operating condition,
If the owner fails to restore the system to operating condition within the six-
month time frame, then the owner shall be required, at his, her or its expense,
to remove the wind turbine from the tower for safety reasons. The tower then
would be subject to the public nuisance provisions of the municipal code.
         (l)   Signage. All signs, other than the manufacturer’s or installer’s
identification, appropriate warning signs or owner identification on a wind
generator, tower, building or other structure associated with a small wind
energy system visible from any public road shall be prohibited.
         (m)   Lighting. No illumination of the turbine or tower shall be
allowed unless required by the FAA.
         (n)   Access. Any climbing foot pegs or rungs below 12 feet of a
freestanding tower shall be removed to prevent unauthorized climbing
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 2018-2, passed 3-12-2018) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   General. No building or structure shall be located within any required
front or side yard or within 20 feet of the rear lot line.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Storage areas. All such facilities shall be located in an area
which has direct access to a loading area and a street or driveway.
      (2)   Living quarters. In industrial districts, living quarters shall be
permitted for proprietors and for watchmen, caretakers or similar employees.
      (3)   Restaurants, cafeterias and recreational facilities. In industrial
districts, restaurants, cafeterias and recreational facilities shall be
permitted, provided that they are primarily for the use of employees.
      (4)   Additional accessory uses. See
Table 1 for additional accessory uses permitted in this district.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 HIGHWAY FRONTAGE DEVELOPMENT IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All areas for off-street parking, off-street unloading and loading,
and the storage or movement of motor vehicles shall be physically separated
from the public street or highway by a raised curb, planting strip or other
suitable barrier against unchanneled motor vehicle entrance or exit, except for
necessary accessways or access roads which supply entrance to and egress from
such parking, loading or storage area.
   (B)   Each use with less than 100 feet of frontage on a public street shall
have not more than two accessways to each such street. No use with 100 feet or
more frontage on a public street shall have more than two accessways to anyone
street for each 300 feet of frontage.
   (C)   (1)   The width of entrances to and exits from parking areas, measured
at the street line, shall conform to the following schedule:
 
Width in Feet
        Minimum Maximum
One-way 10      26
Two-way 20      36
 
      (2)   Each lane provided shall be a minimum of ten feet in width.
      (3)   The radius of the edge of the driveway apron shall be at least 15
feet and no more than 50 feet.
   (D)   The location and width of exit and entrance driveways shall be planned
to interfere as little as possible with the use of adjacent property and with
pedestrian and vehicular traffic on adjacent streets. Access driveways shall
not be located in such a manner that they will cause a hazard to the free
movement of normal highway traffic or cause areas of undue traffic congestion
on the highway.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Screening, planting strips and the like shall be subject to approval
of the Zoning Officer prior to planting. The type and density of planting shall
adequately provide the screening effect required.
   (B)   Any portion of a site which is not used for buildings, structures,
paved areas and designated storage areas shall be landscaped according to an
overall plan.
   (C)   Landscaped screening shall be required whenever a new nonresidential
principal building is located on a lot whose side or rear lines abut or are
across and alley from a residential district or an existing residential use.
      (1)   Plant materials used in screen planting shall be at least four feet
in height when planted.
      (2)   The screen planting shall be maintained permanently and plant
material which does not live shall be replaced within one year.
   (D)   See §
154.085 for parking lot landscaping requirements.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.082 LIGHTING.
   (A)   When the property on which any activity is conducted is illuminated at
night, such illumination shall be so designed and located that the light
sources are shielded from adjoining properties and streets to prevent lights
from shining into the eyes of passing pedestrians or motorists.
   (B)   No direct beams of light shall be directed toward adjacent properties
or toward roads, except from street lights intended for the lighting of
streets, the location of which have been approved by the borough and the
appropriate utility company.
   (C)   All light sources, including signs, shall be properly diffused with a
translucent or similar cover to prevent the lighting element from being
directly visible from streets, public sidewalks, dwellings or adjacent lots.
   (D)   No lighting shall be utilized in such a manner to produce a light
intensity greater than 0.2 foot-candles beyond the lot lines.
   (E)   Flashing, flickering or strobe lighting are prohibited, except for
seasonal holiday lights between October 25 and January 10.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.083 SIGNS.
   Signs may be erected and maintained only when in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances and regulations of the
borough relating to the erection, alteration or maintenance of signs.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Signs shall not contain moving parts nor use flashing or
intermittent illumination or any type of dynamic display except as specifically
provided for in this chapter. The source of light shall be steady and
stationary. Units which alternately display time and temperature shall be
permitted.
      (2)   No sign shall be placed in such a position, or have such a source
of illumination, that it will cause any danger to pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
      (3)   No sign other than official traffic signs shall be erected within
the right-of-way lines of any street or extend over any street right-of-way.
      (4)   Every sign must be constructed of durable material and be kept in
good condition. Any sign which is allowed to become dilapidated shall be
removed at the expense of the owner or lessee. The Borough Zoning Officer shall
make such determination as to state of repair.
      (5)   No sign shall be utilized in a manner which produces a light
intensity greater than zero foot- candles beyond the lot lines. No direct beams
of light shall be directed towards adjacent properties or roads.
      (6)   The distance from the ground to the highest part of any sign shall
not exceed ten feet in residential districts. The distance from the ground to
the highest part of any freestanding sign in a commercial or industrial
district shall not exceed 25 feet. In commercial or industrial districts no
portion of a sign which is attached to a building or supported by a building
shall extend above the height of the building.
      (7)   No sign shall be erected or located as to prevent free ingress to
or egress from any window, door or fire escape.
   (B)   Signs permitted in residential districts.
      (1)   Official traffic signs;
      (2)   Identification signs or bulletin or announcement boards for
schools, churches, hospitals or similar institutions, and for clubs, lodges,
estates or similar uses, provided that:
         (a)   No more than two such signs shall be erected on any frontage of
anyone lot;
         (b)   The area on one side of any such sign shall not exceed 20 square
feet; and
         (c) No such sign may be closer than ten feet to the front lot line.
      (3)   Signs indicating the name, profession or activity of the occupant
of a dwelling, provided:
         (a)   No side of any such sign shall exceed two square feet in area;
         (b)   No such sign shall be located within ten feet of the front lot
line; and
         (c)   No more than one such sign shall be permitted for each permitted
use or dwelling.
      (4)   Signs advertising the rental or sale of premises, provided that:
         (a)   The area on anyone side of any such sign shall not exceed 12
square feet;
         (b)   A sign shall be located on the lot to which it refers;
         (c)   No sign shall be located within ten feet of the front lot line;
and
         (d)   Not more than one such sign shall be placed on any one street
frontage.
      (5)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects and the like, provided
that:
         (a)   Such signs shall be removed promptly upon completion of the
work;
         (b)   The area of such signs shall not exceed 12 square feet on anyone
side;
         (c)   Such signs shall be located on the lot which the work is being
done; and
         (d)   Such signs shall be no closer than ten feet to the front lot
line.
      (6)   Signs advertising a lawful nonresidential, nonconforming use,
provided that:
         (a)   The area on one side of such sign shall not exceed 12 square
feet;
         (b)   The sign shall be erected only on the lot on which such
nonconforming use is located;
         (c)   No more than two such signs shall be erected on any one street
frontage; and
         (d)   No sign shall be located within ten feet of the front lot line.
      (7)   Signs necessary for the identification and protection of public
utility facilities, provided that the area of any one side of such sign shall
not exceed 12 square feet;
      (8)   Signs within a residential subdivision to direct persons to a
rental office or sample unit within that subdivision provided that the area on
any one side of any such sign shall not exceed four square feet; and
      (9)   “No Trespassing” signs and signs indicating the private nature of
premises. The area of anyone side of such signs shall not exceed two square
feet.
   (C)   Signs in commercial, institutional-government and industrial
districts. Signs may be erected and maintained, provided that:
      (1)   No more than one advertising sign and no more than two directional
sign shall be permitted on a lot;
      (2)   The total area on one side of all signs placed on or facing any one
street frontage of any one lot shall not exceed 200 square feet except in the
case of a building housing more than one commercial or industrial use;
      (3)   The area on one side of a directional or advertising sign shall not
exceed 20 square feet;
      (4)   No part of any sign shall be located within five feet of the front
lot line;
      (5)   No more than one freestanding sign shall be allowed on any one lot;
      (6)   No more than three separate signs shall face any one street
frontage on any one lot except in the case of a building housing more than one
commercial or industrial use;
      (7)   In the case of a building housing more than one commercial or
industrial use, one permanent identifying sign for the building, the area on
one side of which shall not exceed 150 square feet, may be erected. In
addition, for each commercial or industrial use located within that building,
one sign, the area of which shall not exceed 50 square feet, may be attached to
that portion of the building housing the use, provided that no such sign shall
equal more than 20% of the total area of the wall to which it is attached; and
      (8)   Dynamic signs shall only be permitted as follows:
         (a)   Dynamic signs shall be permitted only in the C-1 and I-
G Districts, as follows:
            1.   In excess of 100 feet from a residential district;
            2.   In place of two business identification signs otherwise
permitted by this chapter or present as a pre-existing nonconformity; and
            3.   At 80% of the surface area of the otherwise permitted sign
type.
         (b)   Dynamic signs shall not be illuminated in excess of zero foot-
candles as measured at the property line.
         (c)   Dynamic signs shall be equipped with automatic day/night dimming
software to reduce the illumination intensity from one hour after sunset to one
hour prior to sunrise.
         (d)   Dynamic signs shall cease all illumination by the later of 11:00
p.m. or 30 minutes after business hours.
         (e)   The time interval used to change from one complete message,
image or display to the next complete message, image or display shall be a
maximum of one second.
         (f)   Dynamic sign messages, images or displays shall not change more
than once every 15 seconds.
         (g)   Light level intensity and contrast shall remain constant
throughout the sign face.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.084 LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Paved off-street loading and unloading spaces, with proper access from
a street, common driveway or alley, shall be provided on any lot on which a
building for trade or business is hereafter erected or substantially altered.
All such areas for the loading and unloading of vehicles, and for the servicing
of establishments or shops by refuse collection, fuel and other service
vehicles, shall be of such size, design and arrangement that they may be used
without blocking or otherwise interfering with the use of automobile
accessways, parking facilities and pedestrian ways. All loading areas shall be
paved. Loading areas shall not be located within required front yards.
   (B)   The number and size of loading spaces provided shall be appropriate
for the use to be conducted on the premises. At least one loading space shall
be provided for each use. When a zoning permit is applied for, the application
for the permit shall show all provisions for off-street loading and include
supporting data (data on number, frequency and size of vehicles which will use
the loading facilities) which justify the number and size of spaces provided.
Each required off-street loading and unloading space shall be at least 12 feet
wide by 35 feet deep.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.085 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the C-1 District
whenever a new building is constructed and in all other districts whenever:
      (1)   A building is constructed or a new use established;
      (2)   The use of an existing building is changed to a use requiring more
parking facilities; and
      (3)   An existing building is altered so as to increase the amount of
parking space required.
   (B)   Each parking space shall have a minimum area of 200 square feet and
minimum dimensions of ten feet by 20 feet. In addition, in industrial and
commercial districts and in multiple-family developments, appropriate
driveways, aisles and maneuvering space shall be provided to permit safe and
convenient access to and use of the areas provided for parking purposes. Aisles
shall be 12 feet wide for one-way traffic, 24 feet for two-way traffic. Proper
access from a street, alley or other driveway shall be provided.
   (C)   Parking spaces for residential uses shall be located on the same lot
as the use served and shall be located behind the street right-of-way line.
Parking spaces for other uses shall be provided for on the same lot as the use
being served or in parking facilities within 500 feet of the use, except in the
case of a shopping center or similar grouping of buildings on a lot, in which
case all parking areas shall be provided entirely within the lot lines of the
property.
   (D)   Joint parking facilities for two or more uses may be established,
provided that the number of spaces provided is not less than the sum of the
spaces required for each individual use. Applicants may offer evidence that the
peak demand for required parking of different types of uses (such as office,
entertainment and places of worship) are sufficiently offset so as to allow for
a reduction in the sum of parking spaces otherwise required. Reduced parking
requirements for joint parking shall only continue in effect as long as such
uses or their closely similar successor uses remain in operation, and shall be
guaranteed by a legally binding agreement on file with the borough. If such
agreement becomes legally ineffective, then all parking shall be provided as
would otherwise be required by this chapter.
   (E)   Common parking areas (serving two or more structures, uses, and/or
units) shall:
      (1)   Be designed or located so as not to require cars to back into
public streets in order to leave the parking areas. All dead-end parking lots
shall provide adequate areas into which cars parked in the end stalls of the
lots may back up without encroaching onto a public street;
      (2)   Be located a minimum of ten feet from all structures and from the
exterior lot lines of the development;
      (3)   Be located a minimum of ten feet from all street rights-of-way;
      (4)   Have entrance and exit ways a minimum width of ten feet for each
lane of traffic entering or leaving the areas;
      (5)   Be designed to accommodate through traffic to other parking areas;
and
      (6)   Be designed with entrances to and exits from common parking areas
located a minimum of 40 feet from the point of intersection of the nearest
street curb lines.
   (F)   (1)   Parking lots shall include a perimeter landscaping buffer strip
whenever any of the following is located on a lot whose side or rear lines abut
or are across an alley from a residential district:
         (a)   Routine overnight parking of one or more tractor-trailer trucks;
         (b)   Loading docks; or
         (c)   A parking lot involving eight or more parking spaces.
      (2)   Such buffer strip shall not be required where the nonresidential
building, loading dock or parking would not be visible from existing or
approved dwellings.
   (G)   Parking lots of 20 or more spaces shall include landscaping of 10% of
the total paved area for all common parking areas with a capacity of 20 or more
vehicles. Such threshold may be met in part by perimeter landscaping.
   (H)   All parking spaces and means of access, other than those relating to a
dwelling, shall be adequately illuminated during night hours of use. The
illumination must be designed and located so that the light sources are
shielded from adjoining properties and public and private streets consistent
with the requirements of §
154.082.
   (I)   All parking areas shall be paved and shall be graded to provide
convenient vehicular access and proper drainage. The maximum grade of the
parking area shall not exceed 6%. Surface water shall not discharge onto public
sidewalks or other premises.
   (J)   No areas necessary to fulfill the off-street parking requirements of
this chapter shall be used for the sales, dead-storage, repair, dismantling or
servicing of vehicles.
   (K)   Off-street parking facilities existing at the effective date of this
zoning chapter shall not be subsequently reduced to an amount less than that
required under this chapter for a similar new building.
   (L)   When the required number of parking spaces is computed and a fraction
of a parking space results, any fraction below one-fourth may be disregarded
and any fraction over one-fourth shall necessitate the provision of a full
parking space.
   (M)   If a reduction in the required parking is permitted under this
section, the Zoning Hearing Board may require as a condition of the relief that
the lot include the reservation, permanently or for a specified number of
years, of areas sufficient to otherwise meet the required number of spaces, if
needed in the future.
      (1)   Such reservation shall be provided in a legal form acceptable to
the Zoning Hearing Board such as a legally binding deed restriction and be
officially filed with the borough.
      (2)   In such case, the applicant shall be required to submit site plans
to the Zoning Officer showing where and how the additional parking could be
accomplished. Such future parking areas shall not be covered by buildings and
shall be attractively landscaped unless needed for parking.
      (3)   Such additional parking shall be required to be provided within one
year after the Zoning Hearing Board may determine it to be necessary to meet
actual demand. Such determination may be made by the Board based upon a filing
with the Board by the Zoning Officer, based upon field analysis by the Zoning
Officer.
   (N)   (1)   Off-street parking requirements shall be as follows:
Use Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Auditorium, theater, municipal
building, place of worship, club or     1 space for every 3 seats
lodge or other place of public
assemblage
Bowling alley                           5 parking spaces per alley
Drive-in eating establishment (no       1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
indoor seating provided)                lot area
Elementary and junior high school       1 space per employee
Funeral home                            At least 5 spaces for each parlor
High schools                            1 space per employee and 1 space per 4
                                        students
Industrial, wholesaling or warehousing  2/3 space per employee on the combined
establishment                           employment of the two largest
                                        successive shifts
Library or museum                       1 space per 300 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Medical, dental and paramedical offices 5 spaces for each person engaged in
and clinics                             practice
Motel, hotel, tourist home or similar   1 space for each rental unit plus 1
establishment                           space for each employee on the largest
                                        shift
Motor vehicle service station, repair   2 parking spaces per service bay
garage
                                        1 space per employee plus 1 space for
Nursery schools                         loading and unloading of children for
                                        each 5 children accommodated in the
                                        school
Nursing home, convalescent home or      1 space for each employee on the
retirement home                         largest shift plus 1 space for each 4
                                        beds
Office buildings                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Residential uses                        2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
Restaurant, tavern or similar use       1 space for each 4 seats plus 1 space
                                        for each employee on the largest shift
Retail and service establishments       1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Skating rink, swimming pool, dance      1 space per 50 square foot devoted to
hall, indoor recreational establishment patron use
 
      (2)   For any building or use not covered above, the Zoning Officer shall
apply the standard for off-street parking spaces in the above schedule deemed
to most closely approximate the proposed building or use.
   (O)   Handicapped parking shall be provided in accordance with state and
federal requirements, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.086 PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Private driveway entrances or exits into a street from a corner lot
shall be located at least 40 feet from the intersection of any street lines.
   (B)   No driveway or driveway entrance or exit shall be less than ten feet
in width.
   (C)   No driveway serving a single-family detached dwelling shall be located
within five feet of any side lot line, except in the case of adjoining
driveways.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.087 FRONT YARD EXCEPTIONS.
   When a new or expanded structure is proposed for a lot situated on a block
where the average front yard dimension is less than those required for the
zoning district in which the subject lot is located, the front yard required
for the subject lot may be reduced to a depth equal to the average of the
block.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.088 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   On a corner lot, no wall, fence or other structure may be erected or
altered and no hedge, tree, shrub or other growth shall be maintained which may
cause danger to the drivers of vehicles on a public road by obscuring the
drivers’ view.
   (B)   Clear sight-triangles shall be provided at all street intersections.
Within such triangle, no object shall be permitted which obscures vision above
the height of three feet and below ten feet, measured from the centerline grade
of intersecting streets. Such triangles shall be established from a distance of
75 feet from the point of intersection of the centerlines of the intersecting
streets.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.089 HOME OCCUPATIONS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   At least 50% of the goods available for retail sale shall be produced
in the dwelling unit.
   (B)   No storage of materials or products shall be permitted outside
buildings.
   (C)   No display of products shall be visible from adjoining properties or
streets.
   (D)   There shall be no outside advertising other than one one-sided or two-
sided sign of no more than two square feet on each side.
   (E)   Not more than two persons, other than persons residing in the dwelling
unit may be employed by the practitioner of the occupation to provide
secretarial, clerical or other similar assistance, not including being the
primary service provider.
   (F)   No noise, odor, dust, vibration, electromagnetic interference, smoke,
heat or glare shall be perceptible at or beyond the lot lines.
   (G)   Such occupations shall be incidental or secondary to the use of the
property as a residence and are limited to those occupations customarily
conducted within a dwelling unit.
   (H)   Not more than the equivalent of 30% of the area of the first floor of
the principal building may be used for the purposes of the home occupation.
   (I)   (1)   For those occupations which serve patrons, one off-street
parking space shall be provided for each 150 square feet of floor area devoted
to patron use except in the case of dental, medical, or paramedical offices.
Four off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each person engaged in
dental, medical, or paramedical practice.
      (2)   These requirements for off-street parking shall be met in addition
to the provision of off-street parking for residences as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.090 FENCES.
   In all districts no fence, wall or hedge may be erected or planted within
the right-of-way lines of any street, nor may they encroach upon any street
right-of-way at any time.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.091 CORNER LOT RESTRICTIONS.
   On every corner lot, there shall be provided a yard, equal in depth to the
front yard requirement of the particular zoning district in which the corner
lot is located, on each side of the lot which is adjacent to a street.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.092 RESIDENTIAL CONVERSION REGULATIONS.
   A single-family detached dwelling may be converted into a dwelling for a
greater number of families, where permitted as listed in
Table 1, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall not have less than 600 square feet of floor
area.
   (B)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling
unit.
   (C)   The lot area per family shall not be reduced to less than 3,000 square
feet per family.
   (D)   The yard, height and lot coverage requirements for the district in
which the dwelling is located shall be met.
   (E)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall specify the maximum number of families
permitted to occupy such building, and may prescribe such further conditions
and restrictions as the Board may consider appropriate.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.093 FLOODWAY CONTROLS.
   (A)   Designation of area. Areas subject to floodway controls shall be those
areas indicated as special flood hazard areas on the most recent Federal
Emergency Management Agency flood insurance rate map and all present or future
amendments, supplements or additions thereto.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Open areas or yards, subject to the
restrictions of this chapter, provided that such open areas or yards shall not
be used for on-lot sewage disposal systems.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception. Public or private recreational
areas such as parks, picnic grounds and playgrounds, which shall not include
enclosed structures except toilet facilities which are connected to public
water and sewer systems, when permitted by the prevailing zoning district
regulations and conducted in accordance with the regulations of the prevailing
zoning district.
   (D)   Controls applicable to all areas subject to floodway controls.
      (1)   Not more than 5% of the area subject to floodway controls shall be
covered with impervious surfaces.
      (2)   Adjacent stream neighbors shall not be unreasonably affected by any
use of the floodplain areas.
      (3)   The cross-sectional profile of watercourses and floodplain areas
shall not be substantially altered unless approved by the Borough Council and,
where applicable, the appropriate state agencies.
      (4)   No outside storage of materials is permitted within floodplain
areas.
      (5)   Fills shall not be located within floodplain areas unless permitted
by the Borough Council.
      (6)   Fences or similar items which may impede, retard or change the
direction of the flow of floodwaters, or that will catch or collect debris
carried by floodwaters, or that are placed where the natural flow of the stream
would carry the same downstream, are not permitted to be constructed.
      (7)   Any structure constructed shall be firmly anchored to prevent the
structure from floating away during time of flooding.
      (8)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed or where any existing
trees, shrubs or other vegetative cover are proposed to be removed, approval
shall first be granted by the Borough Council.
      (9)   The public interest and general welfare of municipalities and
residents in the same watershed shall not be adversely affected.
      (10)   If another statute, ordinance or regulation is applicable, the
more stringent standard shall apply.
   (E)   Boundary disputes and appeals procedures.
      (1)   Should a dispute concerning the boundaries of those areas subject
to floodway controls arise, an initial determination of the boundaries shall be
made by the Zoning Officer, using the criterion listed in division (A) above.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by this decision, claiming that the criterion
listed in division (A) above is or has become incorrect because of changes due
to natural or other causes, may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (3)   The burden of proof shall be on the person appealing the decision
of the Zoning Officer.
      (4)   If it is determined that the flood hazard boundary map is
inaccurate regarding the land in question, the area subject to floodway
controls shall be determined on the basis of a 100-year storm and all
calculations shall be subject to the approval of the Borough Engineer.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.094 ADULT BOOK STORES, ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, CABARETS AND
MASSAGE PARLORS.
   (A)   Definitions for purposes of this section. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT BOOK STORE. A commercial establishment, including a building or a
portion thereof, having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade, books, magazines, photographs or other materials which are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined
below), or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial building or establishment used
in whole or in part for presenting motion pictures distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined below),
for observation by patrons therein.
      CABARET. A club, restaurant, bar, tavern, theater, hall or similar
commercial establishment which features male and/or female entertainers,
including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless dancers, entertainers,
strippers or employees, whose performance or activities include, even though
not limited to, simulated sex acts, live or actual sex acts or other specified
sexual activities (as defined below), and/or reveal or display specified
anatomical areas (as defined below).
      MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage and which has a fixed place
of business where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or
carries on the practice of massage; provided, however, that this definition
shall not be construed to include a hospital, nursing home, medical clinic or
the office of a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, massage therapist
or physical therapist duly licensed by the commonwealth, nor barber shops or
beauty salons in which massages are administered only to the scalp, face, neck
or the shoulders. In addition, this definition shall not be construed to
include a volunteer fire department, a volunteer rescue squad or a non-profit
organization operating a community center, a swimming pool, tennis court or
other educational, cultural, recreational or athletic facilities and facilities
for the welfare of the residents of the area.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely or opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely or opaquely covered.
   (B)   Prohibition in residential and commercial zones. It shall be unlawful
to establish an adult book store, an adult motion picture theater, a cabaret or
massage parlor in any district other than the I-1 Industrial District as
hereinafter qualified.
   (C)   One thousand feet separation requirement. It shall be unlawful to
establish an adult book store, an adult motion picture theater, a cabaret or a
massage parlor within 1,000 lineal feet of any other adult book store, adult
motion picture theater, cabaret, massage parlor or game room.
   (D)   Allowance of special exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to establish an adult book store, an adult
motion picture theater, a cabaret or a massage parlor within 500 feet of any
school, church, playground, any other area designated as a recreational area or
a residential area, except as a special exception in accordance with the
procedure set forth in §§
154.150 through
154.154.
      (2)   The Zoning Hearing Board may authorize the establishment of an
adult book store, an adult motion picture theater, a cabaret or a massage
parlor within 500 feet of a school, church, playground, any other area
designated as a recreational area or any other adult book store, adult motion
picture theater, cabaret, massage parlor, or game room as a special exception
only if the following findings are made by the Zoning Hearing Board:
         (a)   The applicant has presented to the Zoning Hearing Board a
petition which indicates approval of the proposed use by 51% of the persons
owning, residing or doing business within a radius of 500 feet of the location
of the proposed use. The applicant shall have attempted to contact all eligible
locations within this radius and must supply a list of all addresses at which
no contact was made. The circulator of the petition shall subscribe to an
affidavit attesting to the fact that the circulator personally witnessed the
signatures on the petition and that the same were affixed to the petition by
the persons whose names appear thereon;
         (b)   The proposed use will not adversely affect the safe and
comfortable enjoyment of properties in the neighborhood and will not be
detrimental to the general character of the area;
         (c)   The establishment of the proposed use in the area will not be
contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation and will not interfere
with any program of urban renewal;
         (d)   The conditions set forth in §
154.152(E) relating to special exceptions will be met; and
         (e)   All other applicable regulations of this chapter will be
observed.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.095 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Borough Council may require safeguards to assure compliance with the
following standards.
   (B)   Upon borough request, the owner shall furnish or obtain proof at his
or her own expense that he or she is in compliance with these standards.
      (1)   Minimized impact on adjacent properties. All uses shall be planned
and designed to minimize and reduce light, noise and odor emissions onto
adjacent properties. Where feasible, as determined by Borough Council or the
Zoning Officer, buffer yards and landscaping enhancements shall be established
around the perimeter of the property. See sections below for more specific
standards.
      (2)   Air management.
         (a)   Open burning is prohibited, with the exception of controlled
burning in residential grills, chimineas™ or masonry enclosures with an area of
16 square feet or less, and only in a residential district.
         (b)   No gases, vapors or particulates shall be emitted from the
facility which are harmful to persons, property, animals or vegetation beyond
the lot lines of the lot on which such gases, vapors or particulates originate.
         (c)   No radioactive vapors or gases shall be emitted from the
facility in amounts which are harmful.
         (d)   No odors causing annoyance or discomfort to the public shall be
detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot on which such odors originate.
         (e)   The emission of any smoke at a density greater than No. 1 of the
Ringlemann Smoke Chart as published by the U.S. Bureau of Mines shall not be
permitted, except that smoke of a density of No. 2 may be emitted for not more
than four minutes in any 30-minute period. This standard shall not be applied
to emissions where the presence of uncombined water is the only reason for the
failure of the emission to meet the opacity limits. (Uncombined water produces
a white “smoke” which vanishes a short distance from the stack.)
      (3)   Wastewater management.
         (a)   Effluent must meet federal, state and borough standards as
listed.
         (b)   Discharge of potentially dangerous effluent from plant
operations prohibited.
      (4)   Solids waste management. No permanent storage of waste materials on
the lot shall be permitted. All waste materials awaiting transport shall be
concealed from view from all adjacent properties.
      (5)   Noise and vibration.
         (a)   Noise limits at lot lines shall be as follows:
 
Permissible Noise Limits in dbA
                                          Between 10:00 p.m. Between 7:00 a.m.
                                          and 7:00 a.m.      and 10:00 p.m.
At lot line adjacent 90% of time must be  60                 70
to land zoned        less than:
residential          Maximum:             70                 80
At lot line adjacent 90% of the time must 65                 75
to land zoned        be less than:
industrial or        Maximum:             75                 85
commercial
 
         (b)   No physical vibration shall be perceptible without use of
instrument at or beyond the lot lines.
      (6)   Visual.
         (a)   No lighting shall be utilized in a manner which produces glare
perceptible at or beyond the lot lines
         (b)   No advertising displays shall be utilized in a manner which
produces periodic flashing or other intensity changes beyond the lot lines.
      (7)   Heat. Any operation producing heat shall be conducted in such a
manner as to prevent any effect from the heat beyond the lot lines of the lot
on which the operation is located.
      (8)   Electromagnetic. No electromagnetic radiation shall be radiated
that does not comply with the regulation of the Federal Communication
Commission or which interferes with radio or television reception or the
operation of other equipment.
      (9)   Compliance with other regulations. Regulations of all authorities
having jurisdiction shall be complied with, including, but not limited to
following:
         (a)   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection; and
         (b)   International Building Code as adopted by the borough.
      (10)   Safety. The applicant shall demonstrate that the use will not
create significant public safety hazards, including fire, toxic or explosive
hazards.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.096 TRASH SCREENING AND SECURITY.
   Exterior storage areas for trash and rubbish shall be completely screened
from view on three sides and all trash and rubbish shall be contained in air-
tight, vermin-proof containers.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.097 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the use will not result in
traffic hazards or significantly add to traffic hazards, including obstruction
of required clear sight triangles, blocking of streets, or vehicular ingress
and egress points which endanger users of streets and/or sidewalks.
   (B)   Borough Council may require as a condition of approval that the
applicant demonstrate through traffic studies using methodology approved by the
Borough Engineer that the use will not create traffic congestion which will
cause degradation of the level of service at nearby intersections. See §
153.132 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.098 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Code compliance. All uses shall comply with the minimum building code
requirements, as specified by the borough and by the State Department of Labor
and Industry. Prior to the issuance of a use and occupancy permit for the
proposed use, the applicant shall provide evidence to the borough that all
plans and permits have been approved by all federal, state and local agencies
having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Expansion projects. All proposed facility expansion projects, external
structural development projects, and/or land development projects must comply
with the following criteria.
      (1)   Unless otherwise permitted as part of a conditional use
application, all proposed expansion projects must comply with the maximum
building and lot coverage requirements of the underlying zoning district.
      (2)   As part of the conditional use application, the Borough Council may
consider an increase in the maximum building and lot coverage requirements,
provided that the applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   There will be no adverse effects to adjacent property owners;
         (b)   The stormwater management and erosion control facilities are
sufficient to accommodate any increase in impervious surfaces; and
         (c)   Additional landscaping features are integrated into the overall
design as required by Borough Council to mitigate any adverse impacts.
   (C)   Off-street parking and loading space requirements. Unless otherwise
directed by the Borough Council in a decision on an application for conditional
use approval, all individual uses considering adaptive reuse shall be subject
to off-street parking and loading requirements specified under §§
154.075 through
154.100. Under no circumstances, however, shall any conditional use application
be approved under this section where the applicant for a commercial use has not
demonstrated the availability of a sufficient number of off-street parking
spaces for the maximum number of employees who will be on the premises at any
one time, and where the applicant for a residential use has not demonstrated
the availability of sufficient off-street parking to accommodate the number of
dwelling units proposed. All off-street parking shall be provided in the side
or rear yard of the structure, or parking on another property within safe
walking distance shall be demonstrated.
   (D)   Modification of design and dimensional provisions. The design and
dimensional provisions pertaining to landscaping, buffer yards, exterior
lighting, internal access drives, off-street parking, off-street loading, and
stormwater management, as further specified in §§
154.075 through
154.100 and in the subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances), may be modified as part of a
conditional use application submitted to Borough Council, except as set forth
in division (A) above. As part of the conditional use application, the
applicant must demonstrate the following: that there will be no adverse effects
to adjacent property owners; that the standard design and dimensional
provisions cannot be applied based on upon the existing site conditions; and
that the proposal is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Weis
Street Overly District. Borough Council, in its decision on a conditional use
application, may attach reasonable conditions and safeguards.
   (E)   Division of internal building or structure. All projects considering
adaptive reuse which involve the division of the internal building or
structural space of an existing building shall be subject to all pertinent
requirements for subdivision and land development, as set forth in the borough
subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances). The perimeter of all divided areas or
subcomponents of the principal building shall be described by bearings and
distances. All such applications may be permitted as part of a conditional use
application, which shall be subject to the review and approval of Borough
Council. All such conditional use applications shall only be considered for
approval if consistent with the goals and objectives of the Weis Street Overlay
District.
   (F)   Existing principal building. The divided or subcomponents of an
existing principal building may be either owned by fee simple deed or leased as
a condominium. All deeds or lease agreements shall contain a description of the
occupied area, by bearing and distances, the existing and proposed facility
improvements, a maintenance agreement, a list of restrictive covenants, and all
other relevant documentation required by the Borough Solicitor and/or Borough
Engineer. Any deed or lease agreement shall be subject to the approval of the
Borough Council, and shall be recorded with the office of the Recorder of Deeds
of the county.
   (G)   Utilities. All individual uses shall be required to have separate
sanitary sewer connections, water supply connections and all other utilities
servicing the property. All utility connections shall be installed in
accordance with all specifications adopted by the borough, the borough’s
municipal authority and/or the public utility company providing service to the
use.
   (H)   Hours of operation. Entities in the Weis Street Overlay District shall
not open for business prior to 5:00 a.m., prevailing time, and shall not
operate after 11:00 p.m., prevailing time. Borough Council may set additional
or greater restrictions on hours of operation as a part of the decision on the
conditional use.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.099 PRINCIPAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. A principal solar energy system as defined is allowed via
special exception where listed on Table 1 subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Acreage. A principal solar energy system shall occupy less than one
acre.
   (C)   Height and setback. For purposes of determining compliance with lot
coverage standards of the underlying zone, the total surface area of all
ground-mounted and freestanding solar collectors including solar photovoltaic
cells, panels, arrays, and solar hot air or water collector devices shall be
considered impervious. Panels mounted on the roof of any building shall be
subject to the maximum height regulations specified within each the underlying
zone.
   (D)   On-site utility and transmission lines. All on-site utility and
transmission lines shall, to the extent feasible, be placed underground.
   (E)   Large solar energy production facilities. All large solar energy
production facilities shall be designed and located in order to prevent
reflective glare toward any inhabited buildings on adjacent properties as well
as adjacent street rights-of-way.
   (F)   Warning sign. A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage must
be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
   (G)   Attached to a building. Whenever practical, all principal solar energy
systems should be attached to a building; or if ground mounted and/or
freestanding, the applicant shall demonstrate by credible evidence that such
facilities cannot feasibly be attached to a building due to structural
limitations of the building.
   (H)   Mechanical equipment. All mechanical equipment of principal solar
energy systems including any structure for batteries or storage cells, shall be
completely enclosed by a minimum eight-foot high fence with a self-locking
gate, and provided with screening in accordance with the landscaping provisions
of the borough subdivision and land development ordinance.
   (I)   Ceasing operation. If the applicant ceases operation of the energy
project or begins, but does not complete, construction of the project, the
applicant shall restore the site according to a plan approved by the borough. A
principal solar energy system owner is required to notify the borough
immediately upon cessation or abandonment of the operation. The owner shall be
responsible for the removal of the facility within six months from the date the
applicant ceases use of the facility or the facility becomes obsolete. The
owner shall then have 12 months in which to dismantle and remove the principal
solar energy system from the property. At the time of issuance of the permit
for the construction of the system, the owner shall provide financial security
in form and amount acceptable to the borough to secure the expense of
dismantling and removing said structures.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.100 PRINCIPAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. A principal wind energy facility as defined is allowed via
special exception where listed on
Table 1 subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Requirements. A principal wind energy facility shall meet the
requirements of an accessory wind energy facility in addition to the
regulations described in this section.
   (C)   Land development plan requirements.
      (1)   The land development plan shall demonstrate that the proposed wind
energy facility will comply with this section and the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code, Act 45 of 1999 as amended, and the regulations adopted by
the Department of Labor and Industry.
      (2)   The land development plan, in addition to the other requirements of
the borough’s subdivision and land development ordinance (
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances) shall contain the following:
         (a)   A narrative describing the proposed wind energy facility,
including an overview of the project; the project location; the approximate
generating capacity of the wind energy facility; the approximate number,
representative types and height or range of heights of wind turbines to be
constructed, including their generating capacity, dimensions and respective
manufacturers, and a description of ancillary facilities;
         (b)   An affidavit or similar evidence of agreement between the
property owner and the facility owner or operator demonstrating that the
facility owner or operator has the permission of the property owner to apply
for necessary permits for construction and operation of the wind energy
facility; and
         (c)   Identification of the properties on which the proposed wind
energy facility will be located, and the properties adjacent to where the wind
energy facility will be located.
   (D)   Warnings.
      (1)   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed at
the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
      (2)   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, reflectors or
tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along the guy wires
up to a height of ten feet from the ground.
   (E)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied building
a distance not less than the greater of the maximum setback requirements for
that zoning classification where the turbine is located* or 1.1 times the
turbine height, whichever is greater. The setback distance shall be measured
from the center of the wind turbine base to the nearest point on the foundation
of the occupied building.
      (2)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied building
located on a non-participating landowner’s property a distance of not less than
five times the hub height, as measured from the center of the wind turbine base
to the nearest point on the foundation of the occupied building.
      (3)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest property line a
distance of not less than the greater of the maximum setback requirements for
that zoning classification where the turbine is located* or 1.1 times the
turbine height, whichever is greater. The setback distance shall be measured to
the center of the wind turbine base.
      (4)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest public road a
distance of not less than 1.1 times the turbine height, as measured from the
right-of-way line of the nearest public road to the center of the wind turbine
base.
   (F)   Noise and shadow flicker.
      (1)   Audible sound from a wind energy facility shall not exceed fifty
(55) dBA, as measured at the exterior of any occupied building on a non-
participating landowner’s property. Methods for measuring and reporting
acoustic emissions from wind turbines and the wind energy facility shall be
equal to or exceed the minimum standards for precision described in AWEA
Standard 2.1 - 1989 titled Procedures for the Measurement and Reporting of
Acoustic Emissions from Wind Turbine Generation Systems Volume I: First Tier.
      (2)   The facility owner and operator shall make reasonable efforts to
minimize shadow flicker to any occupied building on a non-participating
landowner’s property.
   (G)   Signal interference. The applicant shall make reasonable efforts to
avoid any disruption or loss of radio, telephone, television or similar
signals, and shall mitigate any harm caused by the wind energy facility.
   (H)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   The facility owner and operator shall, at its expense, complete
decommissioning of the wind energy facility, or individual wind turbines,
within 12 months after the end of the useful life of the facility or individual
wind turbines. The wind energy facility or individual wind turbines will
presume to be at the end of its useful life if no electricity is generated for
a continuous period of 12 months.
      (2)   Decommissioning shall include removal of wind turbines, buildings,
cabling, electrical components, roads, foundations to a depth of 36 inches, and
any other associated facilities.
      (3)   Disturbed earth shall be graded and re-seeded, unless the landowner
requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas not be
restored.
      (4)   An independent and certified professional engineer shall be
retained to estimate the total cost of decommissioning (“decommissioning
costs”) without regard to salvage value of the equipment, and the cost of
decommissioning net salvage value of the equipment (“net decommissioning
costs”). Said estimates shall be submitted to the borough after the first year
of operation and every fifth year thereafter.
      (5)   The facility owner or operator shall post and maintain
decommissioning funds in an amount equal to net decommissioning costs;
provided, that at no point shall decommissioning funds be less than 25% of
decommissioning costs. The decommissioning funds shall be posted and maintained
with a bonding company or federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution
chosen by the facility owner or operator and participating landowner posting
the financial security, provided that the bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business within the commonwealth and
is approved by the borough.
      (6)   Decommissioning funds may be in the form of a performance bond,
surety bond, letter of credit, corporate guarantee or other form of financial
assurance as may be acceptable to the borough.
      (7)   If the facility owner or operator fails to complete decommissioning
within the period prescribed by division (H)(1) above, then the landowner shall
have six months to complete decommissioning.
      (8)   If neither the facility owner or operator, nor the landowner
complete decommissioning within the periods prescribed by divisions (H)(1) and
(H)(7) above, then the borough may take such measures as necessary to complete
decommissioning. The entry into and submission of evidence of a participating
landowner agreement to the borough shall constitute agreement and consent of
the parties to the agreement, their respective heirs, successors and assigns
that the borough may take such action as necessary to implement the
decommissioning plan.
      (9)   The escrow agent shall release the decommissioning funds when the
facility owner or operator has demonstrated and the borough concurs that
decommissioning has been satisfactorily completed, or upon written approval of
the borough in order to implement the decommissioning plan:
         (a)   A site plan showing the planned location of each wind turbine,
property lines, setback lines, access road and turnout locations, substation
(s), electrical cabling from the wind energy facility to the substation(s),
ancillary equipment, buildings and structures, including permanent
meteorological towers, associated transmission lines, and layout of all
structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback;
         (b)   Documents related to decommissioning, including a schedule for
the decommissioning and financing security; and
         (c)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications and approvals as
may be reasonably requested by the borough to ensure compliance with this
section.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS
§ 154.115 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or subsequent
amendments thereto, there exists or will exist certain nonconformities which,
if lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, may be continued subject
to certain limitations, although such nonconformities would be prohibited,
regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or amendments thereto.
   (B)   To avoid such hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
or structure on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and on which actual
building construction has been continuously carried on and not abandoned as
described in §
154.117.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.116 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Where there is a vacant lot of official record, which lot at the time
of adoption of this chapter does not include sufficient land to conform to the
yard or other requirements of this chapter, an application may be submitted to
the ZHB by the owner of said lot for variance from the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Any existing lot of record held in single and separate ownership
different from the ownership of abutting lots may be used for the establishment
of a use and/or erection of a structure which will contain a use permitted by
the applicable zoning district in which it is located even though its
dimensions are less than the minimum requirements of this chapter, except as
set forth herein.
   (C)   Lots held in single and separate ownership. Any lot held single and
separate ownership of the effective date of this chapter which does not meet
the minimum size requirements of the zoning district in which it is located may
be used for any use permitted in that district provided that all yard, height
and open space requirements are met; provided, that if two or more lots,
combination of lots and portion or lots with continuous frontage in single
ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter,
and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot
width and/or area, the land involved shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel for the purpose of this chapter, and no portion of said parcel shall be
used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and/or area
requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel
be made which creates a lot width or area below the requirements stated in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.117 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may not be re-established if the use is abandoned
for a continuous 12- month period.
   (B)   Vacation of land or building or the termination of the use normally
carried on upon the property shall be evidence of abandonment, as shall any of
the following:
      (1)   Failure to file an executed lease;
      (2)   Failure to secure the building envelop;
      (3)   Failure to maintain utility service; and
      (4)   Failure to secure or maintain a license or permit for a
nonconforming use.
   (C)   Applicants may submit a one-time written request for a six-month
extension of the permitted abandonment period for cause.
   (D)   A nonconforming use, building or structure shall be considered
immediately abandoned without right of reestablishment if the building or
structure is demolished or if the nonconforming use, building or structure is
replaced with a conforming use, building or structure.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.118 CHANGE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use by right.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may not be changed to any other nonconforming use
unless the Zoning Hearing Board shall grant a special exception.
      (1)   The proposed use shall be of the same or more restricted
classification than the existing use and shall not be more detrimental to the
district than the existing use of the property.
      (2)   The Zoning Hearing Board may specify such appropriate conditions
and safeguards as may be required in connection with the granting of a special
exception.
   (C)   A nonconforming use, if changed to a conforming use, shall not be
changed back to a nonconforming use.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.119 EXPANSION.
   (A)   A nonconforming use, building or structure shall not be enlarged or
increased upon land not owned, leased or under option to purchase at the time
of enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   A nonconforming use, building or structure shall not be enlarged or
increased in a manner which will further violate any regulation imposed by this
zoning chapter. No additional structures, uses, or buildings which do not
conform to the requirements of this chapter shall be erected or established in
connection with existing nonconforming uses, structures or buildings.
   (C)   A nonconforming use, building or structure may be expanded once up to
5%.
   (D)   (1)   A nonconforming use, building, or structure may not be expanded
more than 5% unless such expansion has been approved as a special exception by
the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (2)   A dimensional nonconformity may be extended provided that the
extent of the nonconformity is not increased, and no new nonconformity is
created.
   (E)   Total future expansion of a nonconforming building, structure or use
shall not exceed 50% of the lot area occupied by the building, structure or use
at the time this zoning chapter becomes effective.
   (F)   Nonconforming signs shall not be expanded.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.120 REPAIR, MOVEMENT AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings and structures and buildings and structures
containing nonconforming uses may be repaired, provided that no repairs shall
be made which will further extend the violation of any requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   A building or structure containing a nonconforming use or a
nonconforming building or structure may be replaced by a new building or moved
to another location on the same lot provided that the new or relocated building
or structure complies with all coverage, yard and height requirements of the
zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.121 DAMAGE OF DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure
containing a nonconforming use of which the basic structural elements are
totally destroyed by any means and declared structurally unsound for occupancy
by the Building Code Official may be rebuilt and used for the same
nonconforming use or a nonconforming use of a more restricted classification.
Any subsequent building or structure or use of land shall not be more
nonconforming in any respect than the building, structure or use of land which
existed prior to destruction, unless a special exception is granted by the
Zoning Hearing Board. New construction shall begin within 12 months of the date
of destruction and diligently pursued. Applicants may submit a one-time written
request for a six-month extension of the construction start date for cause.
   (B)   A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure
containing a nonconforming use of which the basic structural elements are
partially destroyed but the building or structure is not declared structurally
unsound for occupancy by the Building Code Official, may be reconstructed. The
reconstructed portions of a building or structure shall not be more
nonconforming in any respect than the portions of the building or structure
which were destroyed.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.135 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Officer. The Zoning Officer shall be appointed by the Borough
Council to administer and enforce this zoning chapter. The Zoning Officer may
not hold any elective office in the borough.
   (B)   Duties and powers of Zoning Officer.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to enforce literally the
provisions of this chapter and the amendments thereto and he or she shall have
such duties and powers as are conferred on him or her by this chapter and as
are reasonably implied for that purpose.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer’s duties shall include but are not limited to
the following:
         (a)   Receive applications for and issue zoning permits and sign
permits as permitted by the terms of this chapter;
         (b)   Keep an official record of all business and activities,
including complaints of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
and of the subsequent action taken on each such complaint. All such records
shall be open to public inspection. File copies of all applications received,
permits issued, reports and inspections made in connection with any structure,
building, sign and/or land shall be retained as long as the use or structure
remains in existence;
         (c)   Make inspections as required to fulfill his or her duties. He or
she shall have the right to enter any building or structure or enter upon any
land at any reasonable hour in the course of his or her duties;
         (d)   Issue permits for special exception uses or for variances only
after a special exception or variance has been approved by the Zoning Hearing
Board in accordance with the regulations of this chapter;
         (e)   Issue permits for conditional use only after such conditional
use has been approved by Borough Council;
         (f)   Maintain records of adopted amendments to this chapter and the
zoning map;
         (g)   Issue certificates of use and occupancy in accordance with the
terms of this chapter; and
         (h)   Identify and register nonconforming structures and uses created
as a result of the adoption of this chapter and the official zoning map or
created as a result of amendments thereto.
   (C)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall serve a notice of violation on any person,
firm, corporation, partnership or other entity responsible for violating any of
the provisions of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, or in violation of a
detailed statement or a plan approved thereunder.
      (2)   The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record of the
parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed a
written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that parcel, and to
any other person requested in writing by the owner of record, stating at least
the following:
         (a)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against
whom the municipality intends to take action;
         (b)   The location of the property in violation;
         (c)   The specific violation with a description of the requirements
which have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of
the chapter;
         (d)   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced
and the date before which the steps must be completed;
         (e)   The recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the
Zoning Hearing Board within a prescribed period of time in accordance with
procedures set forth in the chapter; and
         (f)   Failure to comply with the notice within the time specified,
unless extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a violation,
with possible sanctions clearly described.
      (3)   If the notice of violation is not complied with in the time period
set forth in said notice, the Zoning Officer shall order the discontinuance of
such unlawful use of the structure, building, sign and/or land involved in said
violation.
      (4)   Refer to 53 P.S. § 10616.1 for additional enforcement provisions.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.136 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. No building, structure or sign shall be erected,
constructed, moved, added to or structurally altered, nor shall land be put to
any use without a permit therefore issued by the Zoning Officer.
      (1)   No such permit shall be issued, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, or upon written order from the Zoning Hearing Board
in the form of a special exception, variance or as otherwise provided for by
this chapter, any applicable laws or any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   In addition, in special flood hazard areas as delineated on the
most recent Federal Emergency Management Agency flood insurance rate map and
all present or future amendments, supplements or additions thereto, a zoning
permit shall be required for:
         (a)   All mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation and
drilling activities; and
         (b)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a building or
structure, the cost of which exceeds 50% of the market value of the building or
structure either:
            1.   Before the improvements or repair is started; or
            2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored,
before the damage occurred.
   (B)   Form of application. All applications shall be made in writing and
shall be accompanied by two sets of plans showing at least the following
information:
      (1)   Actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The exact size and location on the lot of buildings, structures or
signs existing, proposed extensions thereto, and/or to be constructed thereon;
      (3)   The number of dwelling units, if any, to be provided;
      (4)   Parking spaces provided and/or loading facilities;
      (5)   Statement indicating the existing or proposed use;
      (6)   A copy of the deed, and if applicant is not the record owner,
authorization to proceed with application;
      (7)   In the case of new construction, additions or replacement, the
height of structures, buildings or signs;
      (8)   All other information necessary for such Zoning Officer to
determine conformance with and provide for enforcement of this chapter. When
deemed appropriate by the Zoning Officer, the site plan referenced above for
any new structure and/or addition(s) to an existing structure shall be produced
on a survey plan of the entire property prepared and sealed by a registered
surveyor;
      (9)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Zoning Officer after he or she shall have marked such copies either as approved
or disapproved and attested to same by his or her signatures on such copy;
      (10)   One copy of all such plans shall be retained by the Zoning Officer
for his or her permanent records;
      (11)   The Zoning Officer may submit a copy of any plan and application
to any appropriate agencies and/or individuals (such as the Planning Commission
or Township Engineer) for review and comment. The cost of such additional
review or comment shall be funded by the applicant; and
      (12)   Such approval and zoning permit shall be issued or refused within
30 days from date of application. In case of refusal, the applicant shall be
informed of his or her rights of appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board within 30
days of denial. The application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as
the Zoning Officer may prescribe.
   (C)   Expiration of zoning permit.
      (1)   A by-right zoning permit shall expire six months after the date of
issuance, if work described in any permit has not begun. If work described in
any permit has begun within said six months period, said permit shall expire
two years from date of issuance thereof.
      (2)   A zoning permit issued pursuant to a granted variance, or special
exception, unless otherwise specified by the Zoning Hearing Board, shall expire
if the applicant fails to obtain a building permit within 12 months of the
authorization date, or if no building permit is required, fails to occupy the
structure within 12 months of the authorization date.
      (3)   A zoning permit issued pursuant to a granted conditional use,
unless otherwise specified by Borough Council, shall expire if the applicant
fails to obtain a building permit within 12 months of the authorization date,
or if no building permit is required, fails to occupy the structure within 12
months of the authorization date.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.137 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A certificate of use and occupancy shall be required upon the
completion of the work for which the zoning permit was issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use and/or occupy any structure, building and/
or land or portions thereof in any manner until a certificate of use and
occupancy has been issued.
      (1)   Form of application. The application for a certificate of use and
occupancy shall be submitted in such form as the Zoning Officer may prescribe.
      (2)   Issuance of certificate of use and occupancy.
         (a)   The Zoning Officer shall inspect any structure, buildings, sign
and/or land or portions thereof and shall determine the conformity therewith.
If the Zoning Officer is satisfied that the completed work is in conformity
with this chapter and with the work listed in the zoning permit, the Zoning
Officer shall issue a certificate of use and occupancy.
         (b)   A certificate of use and occupancy shall be granted or refused
in writing, within ten days from the date of application. An applicant desiring
to appeal must file with the Zoning Hearing Board within 30 days.
      (3)   Certificate of use and occupancy.
         (a)   In zoning districts in which performance standards are imposed,
no certificate of use and occupancy shall become permanent until the Zoning
Officer has reinspected the facility and determined that it is in compliance
with all performance standards. The owner of the facility shall request in such
form as the Zoning Officer may prescribe, that the Zoning Officer reinspect
said facility. Such request shall be made no less than 30 nor more than 45 days
after the facility is fully operating, but in no event shall such request be
made more than 120 days after the certificate of use and occupancy has been
issued.
         (b)   The Zoning Officer shall reinspect the facility within 30 days
of receipt of such notification, and he or she shall notify the applicant, in
writing within ten days thereof that:
            1.   The facility is in full compliance with all performance
standards and the certificate of use and occupancy is permanent; or
            2.   The facility does not comply with the performance standards
and that the certificate of use and occupancy is still temporary and may be
revoked if the applicant does not correct all violations.
         (c)   Requests for additional reinspections and action by the Zoning
Officer for correction of violations shall follow the same procedure and
requirement as described in this division (B)(3) for reinspections. If the
Zoning Officer fails to reinspect a facility within 30 days of receipt of
notification requesting reinspections, the facility shall be deemed to be in
full compliance with all performance standards and the certificate of use and
occupancy shall be considered permanent without further action on the part of
the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.138 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, a schedule of
fees, charges and expenses and collection procedures for zoning permits,
certificates of use and occupancy, special exceptions, variances, and appeals
and other matters pertaining to this chapter.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be available for inspection in the office
of the Zoning Officer and may be altered or amended by the Borough Council by
resolution.
   (C)   Until all application fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.139 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter and boundaries of zoning districts as set
forth on the official zoning map, may from time to time be amended or changed
by the Borough Council.
   (A)   Procedure. The following procedures shall be observed prior to making
any amendment or change of this chapter or parts thereof including the official
zoning map.
      (1)   Referred to Borough Planning Commission. Every such proposed
amendment or change not initiated by the Borough Planning Commission shall be
referred to the Borough Planning Commission at least 30 days prior to the
Borough Council holding a public hearing thereon to provide the Borough
Planning Commission an opportunity to submit recommendations.
      (2)   Recommendations. The recommendations, if any, of the Borough
Planning Commission shall be submitted in writing to the Borough Council.
      (3)   Submitted to the County Planning Commission. All proposed
amendments to this chapter shall be submitted to the County Planning Commission
for its recommendations at least 30 days prior to the public hearing. Within 30
days after enactment, a copy of any amendment to the zoning chapter shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission.
      (4)   Curative amendments by landowner. A landowner who desires a
challenge on substantive grounds the validity of an ordinance or map or any
provision thereof, which prohibits or restricts the use or development of land
in which he or she has an interest may submit a curative amendment to the
Borough Council with a written request that his or her challenge and proposed
amendment be heard and decided as provided in the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, as amended. The Borough Council shall commence a hearing thereon
within 60 days of the request. The curative amendment shall be referred to the
County and the Borough Planning Commissions as provided in this section and
notice of the hearing thereon shall be given as provided in division (C) below
and in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended. The hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with §
154.151(B)(4) to (B)(8) and all references therein to the Zoning Hearing Board
shall, for the purposes of this section, be references to the Borough Council.
Consistent with 53 P.S. § 10609.1.c, Council shall consider the curative
amendments, plans and explanatory material submitted by the landowner and shall
also consider:
         (a)   The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools and other public service facilities;
         (b)   If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the
proposal upon regional housing needs and the effectiveness of the proposal in
providing housing units of a type actually available to and affordable by
classes of persons otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions
of the ordinance or map;
         (c)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed by
the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural
resources and other natural features;
         (d)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, natural resources and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development and any adverse environmental impacts; and
         (e)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture
and other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
      (5)   Curative amendments by the borough. If the borough determines that
its zoning chapter or any portion thereof is substantially invalid, it shall
take the actions proscribed by 53 P.S. § 10609.2.
   (B)   Public hearing. The Borough Council shall hold a public hearing before
voting on the enactment of any amendment or change, pursuant to public notice,
all in a manner consistent with 53 P.S. § 10609.
   (C)   Notice. The first notice of any public hearing shall be given no more
than 30 days and not less than 14 days in advance of any public hearing
required by this chapter. Such notice shall be published once each week for two
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular
nature of the matter to be considered at the hearing. Second notice shall be no
less than seven days prior to public hearing.
   (D)   Electronic notice. Electronic notice may be required pursuant to 53
P.S. § 10109.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
ZONING HEARING BOARD
§ 154.150 CREATION, APPOINTMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Creation of Board. The Borough Council hereby creates a Zoning Hearing
Board, herein referred to as the Board consisting of three residents of the
municipality appointed by the Borough Council pursuant to the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, who shall perform all the duties and
have all the powers prescribed by said Code and as herein provided.
   (B)   Appointment. One member of the Board shall be designated to serve
until the first day of January following the adoption of this chapter, one
until the first day of the second January thereafter and one until the first
day of the third January thereafter. Their successors shall be appointed on the
expiration of their respective terms to serve for a term of three years.
Members of the Board shall hold no other office in the municipality except that
no more than one member may also be a member of the Borough Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Removal. Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance
or nonfeasance in office or for other just cause by a majority vote of the
Borough Council, taken after the member has received 15 days advance notice of
the intent to take such a vote. A hearing shall be held if the Board member
requests one in writing.
   (D)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Borough
Council for the unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   (E)   Compensation and expenditures for service. The members of the Board
shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the Borough Council by
resolution, but in no case shall it exceed the rate of compensation authorized
to be paid to the members of the Borough Council. Within the limits of funds
appropriated by the Borough Council, the Board may employ or contract for
secretaries, clerks, legal counsel, consultants and other technical and
clerical services.
   (F)   Organization. The Board may promulgate such rules and forms for its
procedure, not inconsistent with this and other ordinances of the municipality
and laws of the commonwealth, as it may deem necessary to the proper
performance of its duties and to the proper exercise of its powers. Such rules
shall be continued in force and effect until amended or repealed by the Board
or by law. The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers; who
shall serve annual terms as such, and may succeed themselves.
   (G)   Meetings. Meetings and hearings of the Board shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board, by majority vote, may
determine.
   (H)   Minutes and records. The Board shall keep full public records of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or
failing to vote indicating such fact. The Board shall also keep full public
records of its business and other official action, copies of which shall be
filed with the Secretary of the Borough Council. The Board shall submit an
annual report of its activities each year to the Borough Council.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.151 HEARINGS.
   (A)   For the conduct of any hearing and the taking of any action, a quorum
shall be not less than a majority of all members of the Board but where two
members are disqualified to act in a particular matter, the remaining member
may act for the Board. The Board may appoint a Hearing Officer from its own
membership to conduct any hearing on its behalf and the parties may waive
decisions or findings by the Board and accept the decision or findings by the
Board and accept the decision of the Hearing Officer as final as provided in
the State Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
   (B)   The Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in accordance with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Pursuant to 53 P.S. § 1090.1.2, the first hearing before the Board
or Hearing Officer shall be commenced within 60 days from the date of receipt
of the applicant’s application, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to
an extension of time. Each subsequent hearing before the Board or Hearing
Officer shall be held within 45 days of the prior hearing, unless otherwise
agreed to by the applicant in writing or on the record. An applicant shall
complete the presentation of his or her case-in-chief within 100 days of the
first hearing. Upon the request of the applicant, the Board or Hearing Officer
shall assure that the applicant receives at least seven hours of hearings
within the 100 days, including the first hearing. Persons opposed to the
application may, upon the written consent or consent on the record by the
applicant and municipality, be granted additional hearings to complete their
opposition to the application provided the applicant is granted an equal number
of additional hearings for rebuttal.
      (2)   For the hearing of any appeal, the Board shall give notice to the
public, the applicant, the Zoning Officer and such other persons as the Borough
Council shall designate by ordinance and to any person who has made timely
request for the same. Notice to the public shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.139. Notice to others herein provided for shall be by mail, mailed to the
designated person or agency not less than 15 days prior to the date of the
hearing. In addition to the notice provided herein, notice of said hearing
shall be conspicuously posted on the affected tract of land.
      (3)   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board or the Board may
appoint any member as a Hearing Officer. The decision, or, where no decision is
called for, the findings shall be made by the Board, but the parties may waive
decision or findings by the Board and accept the decision or findings of the
Hearing Officer as final.
      (4)   The parties to the hearing shall be the municipality, any person
affected by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the
Board and any other person including civic or community organizations permitted
to appear by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons
who wish to be considered parties enter appearance in writing on forms provided
by the Board for that purpose.
      (5)   The Chairperson or Acting Chairperson of the Board or the Hearing
Officer presiding shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and
papers, including witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
      (6)   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and
shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument
and cross-examine all adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
      (7)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant,
immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
      (8)   The Board or the Hearing Officer, as the case may be, shall keep
stenographic records of the proceedings, and a transcript of the proceedings
and copies of graphic or written material received in evidence shall be made
available to any party at cost.
      (9)   The Board or the Hearing Officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his or her representatives in connection with any
issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate, shall not take notice of any communication, reports, staff
memoranda or other materials unless the parties are afforded an opportunity to
contest the material so noticed and shall not inspect the site or its
surroundings after the commencement of hearings with any party or his or her
representative unless all parties are given an opportunity to be present.
      (10)   The Board or the Hearing Officer, as the case may be, shall render
a written decision or, when no decision is called for, make written findings on
the application within 45 days after the hearing, or if said hearing is
continued, within 45 days after said continued hearing. Each decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together with the
reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of the State
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, or of this chapter shall contain a
reference to the provisions relied on and the reasons why the conclusion is
deemed appropriate in the light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted
by a Hearing Officer, and there has been no stipulation that his or her
decision or findings are final, the Board shall make its report and
recommendations available to the parties and the parties shall be entitled to
make written representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or
entry of findings and the Board’s decision shall be entered no later than 45
days after the decision of the Hearing Officer. Where the Board fails to render
the decision within the period required by this division (B)(10) or fails to
hold the required hearing within 45 days from the date of the applicant’s
request for a hearing, the decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in
favor of the applicant unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an
extension of time. When a decision has been rendered in favor of the applicant
because of failure of the Board to meet or render a decision as hereinabove
provided, the Borough shall give public notice of said decision within ten days
in the same manner as provided in division (B)(1) above. Nothing in division
(B)(10) shall prejudice the right of any party opposing the application to urge
that such decision is erroneous.
      (11)   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for,
of the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him
or her not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have
filed their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.152 FUNCTIONS OF THE ZONING HEARING BOARD.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall have the following powers.
   (A)   Appeals from the Zoning Officer: interpretation and review.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant
that the Zoning Officer has failed to follow prescribed procedures or has
misinterpreted or misapplied any provision of this chapter or the official
zoning map or any valid rule or regulation governing the action of the Zoning
Officer.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny the appellant
the right to proceed directly to court, where appropriate, pursuant to State
Rules of Civil Procedure §§ 1091 to 1098 relating to mandamus.
   (B)   Challenges to the validity of zoning chapter or the official zoning
map. The Board shall hear challenges to the validity of this chapter or the
official zoning map except as indicated in 53 P.S. §§ 101003 and 1004(1)(b), as
amended. In all such challenges, the Board shall take evidence and make a
record thereon as provided in §
154.151. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall decide all contested
questions and shall make findings on all relevant issues of fact which shall
become part of the record on appeal to the court.
   (C)   Unified appeals. Where the Board has jurisdiction over zoning matters
pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above and (D) below, the Board shall also
hear all appeals which an applicant may elect to bring before it with respect
to any municipal ordinance or requirement pertaining to the same development
plan or development. In any such case, the Board shall have no power to pass
upon the non-zoning issues, but shall take evidence and make a record thereon
as provided in §
154.151. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall make findings on all
relevant issues of fact which shall become part of the record on appeal to the
court.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variance(s) from
the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to public interest, where a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in
unnecessary hardship. In granting any variance the Board may attach such
reasonable conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the
purposes of this chapter and the State Municipalities Planning Code, as
amended. The Board may, by rule, prescribe the form of application and may
require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   The Board may grant a variance provided the following findings are
made where relevant in a given case:
         (a)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions including
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size, or shape or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of the zoning
chapter in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
         (b)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is
no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of the zoning chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
         (c)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant,
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter; whether in violation of the
provisions hereof or not, and that such circumstances or conditions are such
that strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of such land, structure or building;
         (d)   For reasons fully set forth in the findings of the Board, the
granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of the land or
buildings and that the variance as granted by the Board is the minimum variance
that will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of
the regulation in issue; and
         (e)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   The existence of nonconforming uses of land, structures or
buildings in the same or other zoning districts, shall in and of itself not be
considered grounds for the granting of a variance.
      (4)   In addition, economic gain or economic hardship shall not be
considered grounds for a variance.
   (E)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   To issue, upon application, only such special exceptions to the
terms of this chapter which the Board by the provisions of this chapter is
specifically authorized to issue.
      (2)   The granting of a special exception when specifically authorized by
the terms of the chapter shall be subject to the following standards and
criteria.
         (a)   Such use shall be one which is specifically authorized as a
special exception use in the zoning district wherein the applicant seeks a
special exception.
         (b)   Such permit shall only be granted subject to any applicable
condition and safeguards as required by this chapter.
         (c)   Such permit may be granted subject to additional reasonable
conditions and safeguards as may be deemed by the Board to be advisable and
appropriate.
         (d)   Such use shall be found by the Board to be in harmony with the
general purposes and intent of this chapter.
         (e)   Such use shall not adversely affect the character of the zoning
district, nor the conservation of property values, nor the health and safety of
residents or workers on adjacent properties and in the general neighborhood.
         (f)   Such use shall be of such size and so located and laid out in
relation to its access streets that vehicular and pedestrian traffic to and
from such use will not create undue congestion or hazards prejudicial to the
general neighborhood.
         (g)   Such use shall not conflict with the direction of building
development in accordance with any comprehensive plan or portion thereof which
has been adopted by the governing body.
      (3)   All applications for special exceptions and any exhibits that were
submitted with the application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for its review and recommendations. If the Planning Commission does not make
any recommendations within 30 days, it shall be deemed that the Planning
Commission has recommended approval of the application for special exception.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.153 PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION TO THE ZONING HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall act in strict accordance with the procedures specified
by the State Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as
amended, and by this chapter. In the event the procedures set forth in this
chapter shall be in conflict with or contrary to the procedures set forth in
the State Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as
amended, the procedures set forth in the latter shall prevail. All appeals and
applications made to the Board shall be in writing, on forms prescribed by the
Board. Every appeal or application shall refer to the specific provision of
this chapter involved and shall exactly set forth the interpretation that is
claimed, the grounds for any challenges to the validity of this chapter, the
use for which a special exception is sought, or the details of the variance
that is applied for and the grounds on which it is claimed that the variance
should be granted, as the case may be.
   (B)   Applications and appeals together with the required filing fee, as
established by resolution of Borough Council, shall be submitted to the
Secretary of the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (1)   Parties appellant before the Zoning Hearing Board. Appeals under §
154.152(A) and proceedings to challenge the chapter under §
154.152(B) may be filed with the Board in writing by the landowner affected, by
any officer or agency of the municipality, or any person aggrieved. Requests
for a variance under §
154.152(D) and for special exception under §
154.152(E) may be filed with the Board by any landowner or any tenant with the
permission of such landowner.
      (2)   Time limitations. No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding
with the Board later than 30 days after any application for development,
preliminary or final, has been approved by an appropriate officer of the
municipality, agency or body if such proceeding is designed to secure reversal
or to limit the approval in any manner unless such person alleges and proves
that he or she had no notice, knowledge or reason to believe that such approval
has been given. If such person has succeeded to his or her interest after such
approval, he or she shall be bound by the knowledge of his or her predecessor
in interest.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.154 STAY OF PROCEDURES.
   Upon filing of any proceeding referred to in §
154.153(B)(1) and during its pendency before the Board all land development
pursuant to any challenged ordinance, order or approval of the Zoning Officer
or of any agency or body, and all official action thereunder shall be stayed
unless the Zoning Officer or any other appropriate agency or body certifies to
the Board facts indicating that such stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the development or official action shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by
the court having jurisdiction of zoning appeals on petition after notice to the
Zoning Officer or other appropriate agency or body. When an application for
development, preliminary or final, has been duly approved and proceedings
designed to reverse or limit the approval are filed with the Board by persons
other than the applicant, the applicant may petition the court having
jurisdiction of zoning appeals to order such persons to post bond as a
condition to continuing the proceedings before the Board. The question whether
or not such petition should be granted and the amount of the bond shall be
within the sound discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 154.165 APPEALS.
   Proceedings for securing review of any ordinance, decision, determination or
order of the Borough Council, its agencies or officer adopted or issued
pursuant to this ordinance shall be in accordance with the State Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended;
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.166 CAUSES OF ACTION.
   In case any building, structure, landscaping or land is, or is proposed to
be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained or used
in violation of any ordinance enacted under this act or prior enabling laws,
the borough, with the approval of Council, an officer of the borough, or any
aggrieved owner or tenant of real property who shows that his or her property
or person will be substantially affected by the alleged violation, in addition
to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate such building, structure, landscaping or
land, or to prevent, in or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or
use constituting a violation. When any such action is instituted by a landowner
or tenant, notice of that action shall be served upon the borough at least 30
days prior to the time the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint
on Council. No such action may be maintained until such notice has been given.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.167 PUBLIC UTILITIES CORPORATION EXEMPTED.
   This chapter shall not apply to any existing or proposed buildings, or
extension thereof, used or to be used by a public utility corporation, if, upon
petition of the corporation, the State Public Utility Commission shall, after a
public hearing, decide that the present or proposed situation of the building
in question is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of the
public.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.168 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any article, section, division, paragraph, clause, phrase or
provision of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, such judgment shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a
whole or any part or provision there, other than the part so decided to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.169 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All existing ordinances or parts of ordinances, including, inter alia, the
existing zoning chapter of the borough, enacted on October 6, 1969, together
with the amendments and supplements thereto, are hereby repealed to the extent
necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.170 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days after the date of its enactment
and such advertisement thereof as is required by law.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 154.185 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures and
standards, consistent with all applicable federal and state laws, for the
consideration, permitting, siting, construction, installation, collocation,
modification, operation, regulation and removal of small wireless facilities
(as defined in §
154.187 below) in the public right-of-way of streets and roads.
   (B)   The intent of this subchapter is to:
      (1)   Establish basic criteria for applications to install and/ or
collocate small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Ensure that small wireless facilities are appropriately designed,
constructed, modified, maintained, and removed when no longer in use in
conformance with all applicable health and safety regulations;
      (3)   Preserve the character of the borough by minimizing the potentially
adverse visual impact of small wireless facilities through careful design,
siting, landscaping and camouflaging techniques to blend these facilities into
their environment to the maximum extent practicable;
      (4)   Establish an application process and structure for payment of fees
and charges to be uniformly applied to all applicants, operators and owners of
small wireless facilities for such facilities;
      (5)   Comply with, and not conflict with or preempt, all applicable state
and federal laws, as may be amended or superseded, and all FCC rules and
regulations to interpret and implement applicable federal statutes; and
      (6)   Limit interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways, public utilities, public views, certain city corridors, and other
public ways and places.
   (C)   Zoning. Applications to collocate a small wireless facility or install
or modify an associated utility pole in the rights-of-way shall be treated as a
permitted use pursuant to Act 50 of 2021, the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, and exempt from local zoning where required by the Act. Any
other wireless facilities not meeting the definition of a small wireless
facility shall remain subject to applicable zoning requirements.
   (D)   This subchapter is intended to implement the requirements of the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Failure of the borough to include all
language set forth in that Act in this subchapter does not constitute a waiver
of any rights under the Act.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.186 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall only apply to activities of a
wireless provider within the right-of-way to deploy small wireless facilities
and associated new utility poles with small wireless facilities attached.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.187 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Telecommunications equipment that transmits and receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of wireless
telecommunications services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of destruction of property or
injury to persons;
      (2)   Borough zoning, land use, streets and sidewalks, rights-of-way and
permitting ordinances.
   APPLICANT. A communications service provider that submits an application.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the borough: (1) for a
permit to collocate  small wireless facilities; or (2) to approve the
installation, modification or replacement of a utility pole with small wireless
facilities attached.
   BOROUGH. Borough of Topton, Berks County, Pennsylvania.
   CABLE FACILITY. Buildings, other structures and equipment used by the owner
or operator of a cable television system to provide service. As used in this
definition, the term CABLE SYSTEM shall have the meaning given to it in section
602(6) of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-549, 47
U.S.C. § 522(7)).
   COLLOCATION or COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify or replace
small wireless  facilities on an existing utility pole or other wireless
support structure.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A set of equipment and network components,
including wires and cables and associated facilities, used by a communications
service provider to provide a communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cable operator as defined in section 602(4) of the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-549, 47 U.S.C. §522(5));
      (2)   A provider of information service as defined in section 3(20) of
the Communications Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C.§ 153(24));
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier as defined in section 3(44) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. § 153(51));
      (4)   A wireless provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A municipal pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR BUILDING. A building that is or a group of buildings,
properties or sites that are:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register;
      (2)   Determined to be eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National
Register of Historic Places, who has been delegated the authority by a federal
agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the National
Register of Historic Places in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the
Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review Regarding the Section 106 National
Historic Preservation Act Review Process as specified under 47 CFR Part 1, App.
C (relating to Nationwide Programmatic Agreement Regarding the Section 106
National Historic Preservation Act Review Process);
      (3)   Marked as a historical site by the Pennsylvania Historical and
Museum Commission pursuant to 37 Pa.C.S. (relating to historical and museums);
      (4)   Within a historic district created pursuant to the Act of June 13,
1961 P.L. 282, No. 167), an act authorizing counties, cities, boroughs,
incorporated towns and boroughs to create historic districts within their
geographic boundaries; providing for the appointment of Boards of Historical
Architectural Review; empowering governing bodies of political subdivisions to
protect the distinctive historical character of these districts and to regulate
the erection, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition or razing of
buildings within the historic districts.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that:
      (1)   Does not exceed two cubic feet in volume; and
      (2)   Has an exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   MODIFICATION or MODIFY. The improvement, upgrade or replacement of a small
wireless facility or an existing utility pole that does not substantially
change, as defined in 47 CFR §l.6100(b)(7) (relating to wireless facility
modifications), the physical dimension of the small wireless facility or
utility pole.
   MUNICIPAL POLE. A utility pole owned, managed or operated by or on behalf of
the borough.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
sidewalk, alley, utility easement or similar property. The term does not
include a federal interstate highway.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY or SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. The equipment and
network components, including antennas, transmitters and receivers, used by a
wireless provider that meet the following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (2)   The volume of all other equipment associated with the wireless
facility, whether ground-mounted or pole-mounted, is cumulatively no more than
28 cubic feet. Any equipment used solely for the concealment of the small
wireless facility shall not be included in the calculation of equipment volume
under this paragraph.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility or its design or site location
can be implemented without a material reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   UTILITY FACILITY. Buildings, other structures and equipment owned or
operated by a public utility, as defined in 66 Pa.C.S. § 102 (relating to
definitions), to provide service.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is or may be used, in whole
or in part, by or for telecommunications, electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, signage or a similar function or for collocation. The. term
includes the vertical support structure for traffic lights but does not include
wireless support structures or horizontal structures to which signal lights or
other traffic control devices are attached.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. As follows:
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless service between
user equipment and a communications network, including any of the following:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless services;
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cables,
regular and backup power supplies or comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration;
      (2)   The term includes a small wireless facility;
      (3)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated;
         (b)   The coaxial or fiber optic cables that are not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person or entity authorized by the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission to provide telecommunications service in
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania that builds or installs wireless communication
transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
infrastructure. This term does not include a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Services, whether at a fixed location or mobile, using a
licensed or unlicensed spectrum, provided to the public using wireless
facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person or entity that provides wireless
services. This term does not include a wireless infrastructure provider.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. The term shall have the same meaning given to it
in the Act of October 24, 2012 (P.L. 1501, No. 191), known as the Wireless
Broadband Collocation Act.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.188 RIGHT-OF-WAY RATES AND FEES. 
   Wireless providers shall be required to pay an annual fee for the use of the
right-of-way. The annual right-of-way fee shall initially be $270 per small
wireless facility or $270 per new utility pole with a small wireless facility.
The borough may amend the fee from time to time by resolution of Borough
Council to a rate not to exceed the maximum rate which is found to be permitted
by the Federal Communications Commission and / or Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.189 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, and
with the permission of the owner of the structure, a wireless provider shall
have the right to perform the following within the public right-of-way:
      (1)   Collocate a small wireless facility;
      (2)   Replace an existing utility pole or install a new utility pole with
attached small wireless facilities;
   (B)   Collocation. In accordance with the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, collocation on borough-owned poles may be permitted unless the
small wireless facility would cause structural or safety deficiencies to the
municipal pole, in which case the borough and applicant shall work together for
any make-ready work or modifications or replacements that are needed to
accommodate the small wireless facility;
   (C)   All structures and facilities shall be installed and maintained so as
not to obstruct nor hinder travel or public safety within the right-of-way or
obstruct the legal use of the right-of-way by the borough and utilities.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.190 PERMITTED USE; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall place a small wireless facility or
associated utility pole in the right-of-way, without first filing an
application and obtaining a permit therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Application. All applications for permits filed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be on a form, paper or electronic, provided by the Borough
Manager.
   (C)   Application requirements. An application shall be made by the wireless
provider or its duly authorized representative, and shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The wireless provider's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address;
      (2)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address, if different than the wireless provider, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the small wireless facility. The scope and detail of such description
shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be performed,
with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the
work proposed;
      (5)   A site plan, with sufficient detail to show the proposed location
of items the applicant seeks to install in the right-of-way, including any
manholes or poles, the size, type, and depth of any conduit or enclosure;
      (6)   An attestation that the small wireless facility will be operational
for use by a wireless services provider within one year after the permit
issuance date, unless the borough and the applicant agree to extend this
period;
      (7)   An attestation that, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the
information contained in the application is true;
      (8)   Whether each small wireless facility is proposed to be installed on
an existing pole or structure or a new pole or structure;
      (9)   The name of the owner of the pole or structure on which the small
wireless facility is proposed to be installed and the address, phone number, e-
mail address of the owner's contact person;
      (10)   If a small wireless facility is proposed to be installed on a pole
or structure owned by a party other than the applicant, the application shall
be accompanied by a written confirmation of the owner's agreement to allow the
applicant to locate each small wireless facility on such owner's pole or
structure;
      (11)   Documentation in the form of both narrative and drawings
indicating the size of each proposed small wireless facility, the height of the
pole or structure on which each is proposed to be installed, and the cubic
volume of each small wireless facility.
   (D)   When application not required. An application shall not be required
for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of a small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, and
height; or
      (3)   For the installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities that are strung on cables between
existing utility poles, in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
A permit may be required to perform work within the right-of-way for activities
under paragraph (D), for work that involves excavation, closure of a sidewalk
or closure of a vehicular lane.
   (E)   Application fees. All applications for permits shall be accompanied by
a fee of $500 for a single up-front application that includes up to five small
wireless facilities, with an additional $100 for each small wireless facility
beyond five; and $1,000 in non-recurring fees for each new associated utility
pole.
   (F)   Consolidated applications. An applicant may submit a consolidated
application for up to 20 small wireless facilities.
      (1)   A single applicant shall not exceed application for 20 small
wireless facilities in a 30-day period.
      (2)   The denial of one or more small wireless facilities in a
consolidated application shall not delay processing of any other small wireless
facilities in the same consolidated application.
      (3)   A single permit may be issued for siting and collocating multiple
small wireless facilities spaced to provide wireless coverage in a contiguous
area.
      (4)   If multiple applicants submit applications cumulatively exceeding
20 applications within a 30-day period, the extensions to deadlines provided
for in the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act shall apply.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.191 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Review of small wireless facility and utility pole applications.
      (1)   Within ten days of receiving an initial application, the borough
will determine and notify the applicant whether the application is materially
complete. If an application is materially incomplete, the borough will
specifically identify the missing documents or information and the specific
rule or regulation creating the obligation to submit such documents or
information. The shot clock set forth in subsection (2) shall restart at zero
on the date which the applicant submits all the documents and information
identified by the borough to make the application complete. If the applicant's
supplemental submission fails to make the application complete, and the borough
notifies the applicant within ten days of the supplemental submission and
clearly and specifically identifies the missing documents or information, the
applicable shot clock set forth in subsection (2) shall be tolled until the
applicant provides the missing documents and information. The shot clock
resumes (the date calculation does not restart) to run on the date when the
applicant submits all the documents and information identified by the borough
to render the application complete.
      (2)   All applications shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis,
and the borough shall approve or deny an application for:
         (a)   Collocation of small wireless facility on an existing structure
within 60 days of receipt of the application; or
         (b)   Within 90 days for applications to deploy a small wireless
facility using a new structure.
      (3)   An applicant and the borough may enter into a written agreement to
toll the time periods set forth in subsection (2).
      (4)   If the borough fails to issue a decision on an application for a
small wireless facility within the required time periods set forth in
subsection (A)(2), it shall constitute a deemed approved.
      (5)   The borough may deny a proposed collocation of a small wireless
facility or installation or modification of a utility pole only if the proposed
application does at least one of the following:
         (a)   The small wireless facility materially interferes with the safe
operation of traffic control equipment, sight lines or clear zones for
transportation or pedestrians or compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 Public Law 101-336, 104 Stat. 327 or similar federal
or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
         (b)   The small wireless facility fails to comply with applicable
codes;
         (c)   The small wireless facility fails to comply with the
requirements specified under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act;
         (d)   The applicant fails to submit a report by a qualified
engineering expert which shows that the small wireless facility will comply
with applicable FCC regulations.
      (6)   The borough must document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions on which the denial was based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the borough denies an
application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the borough
and resubmit the application within 30 days of the denial without paying an
additional application fee. The borough shall approve or deny the revised
application within 30 days. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial.
      (7)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the borough
and resubmit the application within 30 days of receiving the written basis for
the denial without being required to pay an additional application fee. The
borough shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days of the
application being resubmitted for review or the resubmitted application shall
be deemed approved 30 days after resubmission. Any subsequent review shall be
limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial. If the resubmitted application
addresses or changes other sections of the application that were not previously
denied, the borough shall be given an additional 15 days to review the
resubmitted application and may charge an additional fee for the review.
   (B)   Permit scope and effect. Installation, modification, or collocation,
for which a permit is granted pursuant to this section, shall be completed
within one year after the permit issuance date unless the borough and the
applicant agree to extend this period. Approval of an application authorizes
the applicant to:
      (1)   Collocate on an existing utility pole, modify or replace a utility
pole or install a new utility pole with small wireless facilities attached as
identified in the initial application.
      (2)   Subject to the permit requirements and the applicant's right to
terminate at any time, operate and maintain small wireless facilities and any
associated equipment on a utility pole covered by the permit for a period of
five years, which shall be renewed for two additional five-year periods if the
applicant is in compliance with the criteria set forth in the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act and applicable codes, and the applicant has obtained
all necessary consent from the utility pole owner.
   (C)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the borough authorizes an applicant to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter and does not create a property
right or grant authority to the applicant to impinge upon the rights of others
who may already have an interest in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.192 DESIGN CRITERIA AND PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a small wireless facility
permit and all required fees, the Borough Manager and/ or the borough's
Engineer or his or her respective designee shall review the application to
determine whether the proposed small wireless facilities and support structure
or pole comply with the following design criteria:
      (1)   The structure on which antenna facilities are mounted:
         (a)   An existing utility pole, provided the installation does not
extend more than five feet above the pole; or
         (b)   A new or replacement pole are not taller than 50 feet. Any
height in excess of these limits shall require application to the Zoning
Hearing Board for a variance.
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment (excluding the
associated equipment) may be no more than three cubic feet in volume; and
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the facility (excluding
antennas) are cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume.
   (B)   The borough may adopt by resolution Small Wireless Facility Design
Guidelines with objective, technically feasible criteria applied in a
nondiscriminatory manner that reasonably match the aesthetics and character of
the immediate area.
      (1)   The Small Wireless Facility Design Guidelines may include examples
of small wireless facilities preferences including visual depictions (if
readily available and identified by the borough).
      (2)   The provisions in this subchapter shall not limit or prohibit the
borough's discretion to promulgate and make publicly available other
information, materials or requirements in addition to, and separate from, Small
Wireless Facility Design Guidelines, so long as the information, materials, or
requirements do not conflict with state or federal law.
   (C)   All small wireless facilities and associated equipment within the
public right-of-way shall be located such that it meets ADA requirements and
does not hinder, obstruct or impede usual pedestrian and vehicular travel.
   (D)   The borough shall have authority to update or supplement the Small
Wireless Facility Design Guidelines to address relevant changes in law,
technology, or administrative processes.
   (E)   Wireless Support Structure Design Standards - General Guidance:
      (1)   Small wireless facilities equipment must be indistinguishable from
the support pole or structure to the greatest degree possible using matching
colors, textures, and materials. The antennas and related equipment shall be in
a color that will provide the most camouflage.
      (2)   All wires, antennas, and other small wireless facility equipment
shall be enclosed and not visible.
      (3)   Screening and equipment enclosures shall blend with or enhance the
surrounding context in terms of scale, form, texture, materials, and color.
Equipment shall be concealed as much as possible by blending into the natural
and / or physical environment.
      (4)   Casing to enclose all wires, antennas, and other small wireless
facility equipment may be mounted on top of existing and new poles in a
cylindrical shape to look like an extension of the pole.
      (5)   Brand logos and other signage are prohibited on all small wireless
facilities except contact information to be used by workers on or near the
small wireless facilities and as otherwise required by federal or state law.
Signage will be no larger than required to be legible from street level.
      (6)   As a condition for approval of new small wireless facilities or new
wireless support structure in a historic district, the applicant shall comply,
to the greatest extent possible, with the design and aesthetic standards of the
historic district, or historic preservation standards in place, to minimize the
negative impact to the aesthetics in these districts or areas.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.193 REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Within 60 days of suspension or revocation of a permit due to
noncompliance with applicable codes, the applicant shall remove the small
wireless facility and any associated equipment, including the utility pole and
any support structures if the applicant's wireless facilities and associated
equipment are the only facilities on the utility pole, after receiving adequate
notice and an opportunity to cure any noncompliance.
   (B)   Within 90 days of the end of a permit term or an extension of the
permit term, the applicant shall remove the small wireless facility and any
associated equipment, including the utility pole and any support structures if
the applicant's small wireless facilities and associated equipment are the only
facilities on the utility pole.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.194 RESTORATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Applicants are required to repair all damage directly caused by the
activities of the applicant and return the right-of-way in as good of condition
as it existed prior to any work being done. If the applicant fails to make the
repairs required by the borough within 30 days after written notice, the
borough may perform those repairs and charge the provider the reasonable,
documented cost of the repairs plus a penalty not to exceed $500. The borough
may suspend the ability of an applicant to receive a new permit from the
borough until the applicant has paid the amount assessed for the repair costs
and the assessed penalty.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to 53 P.S. §§ 10617.2, any person, partnership or corporation
who or which has violated or permitted the violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement
proceeding commenced by a municipality, pay a judgment of not more than $500
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied
or payable until the date of the determination of a violation by the district
justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil
procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation, unless the district justice determining that there has been a
violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the person,
partnership or corporation violating the chapter to have believed that there
was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been only
one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the determination
of a violation by the district justice and thereafter each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. All judgments, costs and
reasonable attorneys’ fees collected for the violation of zoning ordinances
shall be paid over to the borough for its general use.
   (B)   The court of common pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Section Code Section
P.S. Section                          Code Section
3 P.S. §§ 460-101 et seq.           90.01
3 P.S. §§ 460-208 et seq.           90.01
3 P.S. § 851(c)                      152.21
10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq.            112.03
24 P.S. Chapter 1                     31.02
                                      151.001,
32 P.S. § 679.101                    151.039,
                                      151.068,
                                      151.085
32 P.S. § 680.1 et seq.              152.20
32 P.S. § 693.1 to 693.27            151.032
35 P.S. Chapter 29E                   32.50
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to 691.1001        151.032
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 to 750.20          151.032
                                      50.01,
35 P.S. § 6018.101                   50.21,
                                      50.31,
                                      93.02
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.110150.030
36 P.S. Chapter 2                     153.088
53 P.S. § 617.2                      154.999
53 P.S. § 881.101                    31.56
53 P.S. § 895.101                    31.56
53 P.S. § 1090.1.2                   154.151
53 P.S. § 101003                     154.152
53 P.S. § 101004(1)(b)               154.152
                                      153.001,
                                      153.201,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.            154.001,
                                      154.153,
                                      154.165
53 P.S. § 10109                      154.139
53 P.S. § 10603                      154.023
53 P.S. § 10603(f)                   154.059
53 P.S. § 10603(i)                   154.059
53 P.S. § 10609                      154.139
53 P.S. § 10609.1.c                  154.139
53 P.S. § 10609.2                    154.139
53 P.S. § 10616.1                    154.135
53 P.S. §§ 4000.1501 et seq.        93.01,
                                      93.02
53 P.S. § 6924.101                   33.004
72 P.S. § 2407                       93.28
72 P.S. § 2410                       93.28
73 P.S. §§ 176 et seq.              94.35
73 P.S. §§ 201-1 et seq.            112.07
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa.Code Section Code Section
Pa.Code Section                      Code Section
25 Pa. Code                          152.22
25 Pa. Code 73                       152.22
25 Pa. Code 92                       152.21
25 Pa. Code 93                       152.20
25 Pa. Code 102                      152.21,
                                     152.22
25 Pa. Code 271.1                    93.02
                                     151.032,
34 Pa. Code                          151.033,
                                     151.101
                                     150.030,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405 151.066,
                                     151.067
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S. Section                  Code Section
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.       10.02
8 Pa.C.S. § 1202(4)             150.151
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5              10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324      10.99
24 Pa.C.S. § 8102               31.02
                                 50.21,
Pa.C.S. Title 27                 50.31,
                                 50.99
35 Pa.C.S. Part V                31.35
37 Pa.C.S.                       154.187
42 Pa.C.S. § 8953(b),(c),(d),(e)31.35
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F      33.052
65 Pa.C.S. § 701                153.201
66 Pa.C.S. § 102                154.187
75 Pa.C.S. § 3323(b)            74.02
75 Pa.C.S. § 3362(a)(1.2)       74.11,
                                 74.12
75 Pa.C.S. § 3362(c)            74.12,
                                 74.99
75 Pa.C.S. § 3717               70.09
75 Pa.C.S. § 3717(e), (f), (g)  70.09
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Section       Code Section
1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937     33.016
8 Pa.C.S.A. § 1006(4)  31.35
8 Pa.C.S.A. § 10A05(b) 31.35
8 Pa.C.S.A. § 1141     31.15
8 Pa.C.S.A. § 2051     53.55,
                        53.56
8 Pa.C.S.A. § 2053     53.55,
                        53.56
62 Pa.C.S.A. Chapter 33 94.35
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3352    71.31
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4        5-7-1878    91.003,
                     91.999
142      11-13-1897  91.002
151      8-6-1900    94.03,
                     94.99
216      7-1-1929    70.01,
                     70.99
231      11-2-1936   150.002,
                     150.999
                     70.01 
263      10-2-1950   70.07,
                     70.99
268      11-5-1951   51.075 
                     51.078
272      4-7-1952    90.02,
                     90.99
274      1-1-1953    31.55
                     51.001 
327      8-27-1962   51.004,
                     51.999
329      8-27-1962   53.15 
                     53.26
341      11-4-1963   53.18
352      2-1-1965    53.17
                     70.01 
360      5-2-1966    70.07,
                     70.99
365      10-3-1966   32.35,
                     32.36
367      5-1-1967    131.01,
                     131.99
374      5-6-1968    53.17
6-1970   10-5-1970   131.99
1-1971   2-1-1971    94.02,
                     94.99
                     70.04,
3-1971   10-4-1971   70.06,
                     70.99
8-1972   12-4-1972   33.004
1-1974   2-4-1974    53.40
1-1975   5-5-1975    53.40
1-1976   12-6-1976   33.003
2-1978   4-3-1978    91.001
1978-3   9-11-1978   111.01,
                     111.99
                     91.065 
7-1979   8-6-1979    91.076,
                     91.999
                     70.04,
9-1979   10-1-1979   70.06,
                     70.99
2-1980   7-14-1980   94.15
14-1979  12-27-1980  53.17
                     150.150 
1-1981   8-24-1981   150.154,
                     150.999
4-1982   6-12-1982   94.15
                     91.045 
2-1983   2-14-1983   91.050,
                     91.999
                     94.30 
1-1984   3-12-1984   94.41,
                     94.99,
                     Ch. 94, App. A
                     33.095,
5-1984   12-10-1984  33.096 
                     33.098,
                     33.999
                     52.001 
                     52.003,
                     52.015 
                     52.022,
                     52.035,
1-1985   1-14-1985   52.036,
                     52.050 
                     52.056,
                     52.070 
                     52.073,
                     52.999
4-1985   9-9-1985    53.40
1-1987   1-12-1987   33.075 
                     33.081
                     91.030 
4-1988   3-14-1988   91.032,
                     91.999
2-1989   2-27-1989   94.01
3-1989   2-27-1989   31.01
                     51.015 
5-1989   8-14-1989   51.030,
                     51.999
7-1989   12-28-1989  53.40
2-1990   7-9-1990    32.51,
                     32.99
                     71.15 
1991-2   9-9-1991    71.23,
                     71.99
2-1992   3-9-1992    94.15
3-1992   4-13-1992   150.052,
                     150.999
5-1992   7-27-1992   53.56 
                     53.66
                     52.015,
1-1993   2-8-1993    52.018,
                     52.999
2-1993   2-8-1993    53.17
3-1995   12-11-1995  90.02,
                     90.99
5-1996   12-23-1996  53.17
3-98     10-12-1998  150.045 
                     150.050
1-99     11-8-1999   94.15
2-1999   12-13-1999  33.001
4-2000   7-10-2000   53.55 
                     53.66
5-2000   10-9-2000   53.17
                     31.36 
2-01     6-11-2001   31.40,
                     31.99
3-02     10-11-2002  32.50
5-2002   12-30-2002  150.001
                     71.01 
03-03    3-10-2003   71.03,
                     71.99
4-2003   4-14-2003   150.051
6-03     8-18-2003   31.02
1-2004   3-8-2004    53.40
                     51.060 
2-2004   3-8-2004    51.062,
                     51.999
3-2004   6-14-2004   150.030
                     130.01 
6-2004   9-13-2004   130.09,
                     130.99
4-2005   6-27-2005   53.59
5-2005   6-27-2005   53.59,
                     53.60
8-2005   12-27-2005  152.01
9-2005   12-27-2005  53.40
10-2005  12-27-2005  53.17
                     153.001 
                     153.003,
                     153.015 
                     153.017,
                     153.030,
                     153.045 
                     153.049,
                     153.060 
                     153.066,
                     153.080 
                     153.089,
1-2006   5-8-2006    153.100 
                     153.103,
                     153.115 
                     153.133,
                     153.145 
                     153.152,
                     153.165 
                     153.168,
                     153.180 
                     153.185,
                     153.200,
                     153.201,
                     153.999
01-2007  1-8-2007    53.40
02-2007  1-8-2007    53.17
                     33.050 
4-2007   11-12-2007  33.061,
                     33.999
7-2007   12-27-2007  53.01
1-2008   1-7-2008    53.17
2-2008   1-7-2008    53.40
                     110.01,
5-2008   2-25-2008   110.02,
                     110.99
                     93.01 
8-2008   5-12-2008   93.08,
                     93.99
                     50.01 
9-2008   5-12-2008   50.09,
                     50.99
12-2008  10-13-2008  152.15
                     91.015 
13-2008  12-8-2008   91.018,
                     91.999
3-2009   5-11-2009   51.062
5-2009   7-13-2009   32.50
6-2009   8-10-2009   31.56
9-2009   12-14-2009  94.15
10-2009  12-28-2009  33.035 
                     33.038
11-2009  12-28-2009  53.17,
                     53.40
2010-1   3-8-2010    52.018
2011-1   6-13-2011   150.135,
                     Ch. 150, App. A
2011-3   11-14-2011  33.015 
                     33.021
2010-5   12-27-2011  53.17,
                     53.40
                     151.001,
                     151.015 
                     151.019,
                     151.030 
                     151.039,
                     151.050 
                     151.053,
                     151.065 
2012-1   6-11-2012   151.071,
                     151.085,
                     151.100,
                     151.101,
                     151.115,
                     151.116,
                     151.130,
                     151.131,
                     151.999
                     73.01 
2013-1   1-14-2013   73.08,
                     73.99
2013-6   12-9-2013   53.17,
                     53.40
2013-7   12-9-2013   53.17,
                     53.40
                     50.20 
6-2014   12-8-2014   50.38,
                     50.99
                     154.001 
                     154.006,
                     154.020 
                     154.023,
                     154.035 
                     154.038,
                     154.050 
                     154.060,
                     154.075 
-        7-13-2015   154.100,
                     154.115 
                     154.121,
                     154.135 
                     154.139,
                     154.150 
                     154.154,
                     154.165 
                     154.170,
                     154.999
1-2016   2-8-2016    31.15 
                     31.22
                     51.045 
2-2016   4-11-2016   51.048,
                     51.999,
                     Ch. 51, App. A
                     150.110 
3-2016   10-10-2016  150.122,
                     150.999
4-2016   10-10-2016  33.015,
                     33.022
2017-1   1-9-2017    53.17
1-2018   2-12-2018   33.002
                     154.023,
2018-2   3-12-2018   154.060,
                     154.078
3-2018   5-14-2018   72.01 
                     72.11
4-2018   6-11-2018   32.01 
                     32.08
6-2018   12-10-2018  33.002
                     112.01 
1-2019   2-11-2019   112.10,
                     112.99
                     50.20 
2-2019   2-11-2019   50.38,
                     50.99
                     93.25 
3-2019   6-10-2019   93.30,
                     93.99
5-2019   12-9-2019   33.002
                     71.30 -
2-2020   8-10-2020   71.34,
                     71.99
3-2020   6-8-2020    Adopting Ordinance
                     152.20 -
02-2021  3-8-2021    152.27,
                     152.99
03-2021  4-12-2021   150.015,
                     150.016
                     92.01 -
04-2021  5-10-2021   92.16,
                     92.99
05-2021  7-12-2021   51.005
06-2021  9-13-2021   30.01,
                     30.99
07-2021  10-11-2021  93.26
08-2021  10-11-2021  150.015,
                     150.016
                     74.01 
09-2021  11-8-2021   74.04,
                     74.99
01-2022  1-10-2022   33.096,
                     33.097
                     31.25,
02-2022  3-14-2022   31.26,
                     31.41,
                     31.42
03-2022  4-11-2022   154.185 
                     154.194
04-2022  7-11-2022   92.17
                     74.10—
5-2022   11-14-2022  74.12,
                     74.99
                     94.31,
6-2022   11-14-2022  94.35,
                     94.41,
                     94.99
7-2022   11-14-2022  70.08—
                     70.10
8-2022   12-26-2022  53.17,
                     53.40
1-2023   1-9-2023    94.02,
                     150.015
2-2023   - -2023     73.02
3-2023   10-9-2023   53.01
                    
 
 
