TROY BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 03-2018, passed 12/27/2018
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
FOREWORD
History
   This comprises the codification of the ordinances of the Borough of Troy.
Troy Borough was formed in 1845 from the Township of Troy.
   The Code of Ordinances of the Borough of Troy was adopted by the Borough of
Troy Borough Council on [Date] by Ordinance Number__________.
Organization
   The Code contains four parts which are (1) the valid current ordinances of
the Borough of Troy contained in Chapters 1 through 27, (2) the Appendix, which
lists by abstracted title all ordinances of a temporary or “one time” nature,
(3) the Table of disposition of each ordinance ever enacted by the Borough of
Troy, and (4) the Index, which is an alphabetical arrangement of subjects.
   In the Code each Chapter is separated by a divider tab, and specific
ordinances can be located by subject on the contents page at the beginning of
each Chapter. The Index may also be used to search for a subject when one is
looking for general information on a particular subject, or if it is not known
in which Chapter the subject might be found. The Appendix consists of several
general categories containing a chronological listing of short subject
descriptions along with a reference to the original ordinance and its date of
enactment, if known.
   The Table of disposition indicates what action has been taken by the Borough
of Troy Borough Council with regard to every ordinance ever enacted. An
ordinance has either been: (1) specifically repealed; (2) superseded by another
ordinance; (3) is located in a Chapter of the Code book; or (4) is located in
the Appendix. Annual tax rate and budget ordinances are located only in the
Table of Disposition. The Table of Disposition is a cross reference to the
original ordinance books of the Borough of Troy, and to the location within the
Code of each ordinance by number.
Chapter 1
Administration and Government
Part 1
Preliminary Provisions
§ 1-101.   Short Title
§ 1-102.   Citation of Code of Ordinances
§ 1-103.   Arrangement of Code
§ 1-104.   Headings
§ 1-105.   Tenses, Gender and Number
§ 1-106.   Construction
§ 1-107.   Normal Numbering
§ 1-108.   Special Numbering Problems
§ 1-109.   Amending Code
§ 1-110.   Altering Code
§ 1-111.   Penalties
Part 2
Office of Borough Manager
§ 1-201.   Creation of Office
§ 1-202.   Appointment and Removal
§ 1-203.   Qualifications
§ 1-204.   Bond
§ 1-205.   Manager’s Employment Agreement
§ 1-206.   Powers and Duties
§ 1-207.   Mayor’s Powers and Duties
§ 1-208.   Limitation on Council’s Powers
§ 1-209.   Disability or Absence of the Manager
Part 3
Police Department
§ 1-301.   Police Department Established; Members
§ 1-302.   Chief of Police
§ 1-303.   Status of Existing Police Force
§ 1-304.   Appointment of Special Policemen by Mayor
§ 1-305.   Additional Policy and Regulations
Part 4
Pension Plans
A.   Police Pension Plan
§ 1-401.   Establishment of Plan
§ 1-402.   Eligibility for Participation in the Plan
§ 1-403.   Age and Service Requirements
§ 1-404.   [Reserved]
§ 1-405.   Contribution Rate
§ 1-406.   Reduction or Waiver of Employee Contributions
§ 1-407.   Retirement or Pension Benefits
§ 1-408.   Return of Member Contributions
§ 1-409.   Allocation of Commonwealth Funds
§ 1-410.   Gifts
§ 1-411.   Pension Benefits Not Subject to Legal Process Generally
§ 1-412.   Expenses of Administration
§ 1-413.   Refunds
§ 1-414.   Disability and Death Benefits
§ 1-415.   Special Provision
B.    Nonuniformed Employee Pension Plan
§ 1-421.   Establishment of Pension Plan
Part 5
Planning Commission
§ 1-501.   Creation of Commission
Part 6
Firemen’s Relief Association
§ 1-601.   Recognition of Firemen’s Relief Association
§ 1-602.   Certification to Auditor General
§ 1-603.   Annual Appropriation
Part 7
Drug and Alcohol Policy
§ 1-701.   General Statement of Policy
§ 1-702.   Statement of General Objectives
§ 1-703.   Regulations Concerning Use, Possession or Distribution of Alcohol or
Prohibited Substances
§ 1-704.   Adoption of DOT Regulations Mandating Drug and Alcohol Testing
§ 1-705.   Mandatory Drug and Alcohol Testing Required
§ 1-706.   Types of Drug and Alcohol Testing
§ 1-707.   Prompt Submission for Testing
§ 1-708.   Refusal to Test and Uncompleted Tests
§ 1-709.   Testing Forms Prescribed
§ 1-710.   Precautionary Measures
§ 1-711.   Notification of Test Results
§ 1-712.   Cautionary Measures Regarding Prescriptions
§ 1-713.   Effects of Positive Test Results
§ 1-714.   Maintenance of Records
§ 1-715.   Confidentiality of Records
§ 1-716.   Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
§ 1-717.   Noncontractual Agreement
§ 1-718.   Reservation of Rights
Part 8
Personnel Administration
§ 1-801.   Accountability
§ 1-802.   New Employees
§ 1-803.   Hours
§ 1-804.   Benefits
§ 1-805.   Personal Expense on Official Duty
§ 1-806.   Resignation of Employees
Part 9
Fire Insurance Proceeds
§ 1-901.   Use of Fire Insurance Proceeds
§ 1-902.   Limits of Liability
§ 1-903.   Insurance Company Rights Reserved
§ 1-904.   Construction
§ 1-905.   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development
§ 1-906.   Penalty
Part 10
Municipal Authorities
A.   Troy Borough Municipal Authority
§ 1-1001.   Desire and Intention of Municipal Authorities of the Borough
§ 1-1002.   Name of Authority
§ 1-1003.   Articles of Incorporation
§ 1-1004.   Members of the Board of the Authority
§ 1-1005.   Execution of Articles of Incorporation
§ 1-1006.   Adoption of this Subpart
B.   Troy Industrial Development Authority
§ 1-1011.   Desire to Organize Industrial Development Authority
§ 1-1012.   Adoption of Articles of Incorporation of Troy Industrial
Development Authority
§ 1-1013.   Duty of Mayor in Connection with Industrial Development Authority
Part 11
Independent Auditor
§ 1-1101.   Independent Accountant
Part 12
Examination of Borough Records
§ 1-1201.   Examination of Records; Application
Part 13
Open Records Policy
§ 1-1301.   Purpose
§ 1-1302.   Designated Open Records Officer
Part 1
Preliminary Provisions
§ 1-101.   Short Title.
   The short title of this Code of Ordinances prepared and published for the
Borough of Troy shall be the “Borough of Troy Code of Ordinances.”
(A.O.)
§ 1-102.   Citation of Code of Ordinances.
   The Borough of Troy Code of Ordinances may be cited by section number. The
approved short form is “Code.” Thus, “Code, § 27-101" refers to § 101 of
Chapter 27 of this Code of Ordinances.
(A.O.)
§ 1-103.   Arrangement of Code.
   1.   This Code is divided into Chapters which are subdivided as follows:
      A.   Subchapters, identified by capital letters, beginning with a Chapter
title and number.
      B.   Parts, identified by Arabic numerals, beginning with a Part title
and number.
      C.   Subparts, identified by Arabic numerals, beginning with a title.
   2.   The sections of the Code are subdivided as follows:
      A.   Subsections, identified by Arabic numerals.
      B.   Paragraphs, identified by capital letters.
      C.   Subparagraphs, identified by Arabic numerals enclosed within
parenthe ses.
      D.   Clauses, identified by lower case letters enclosed within
parentheses.
      E.   Subclauses, identified by Arabic numerals followed by a parenthesis.
      F.   Items, identified by lower case letters followed by a parenthesis.
      G.   Subitems, identified by small Roman numerals.
(A.O.)
§ 1-104.   Headings.
   Chapter, subchapter, Part, subpart, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, clause and subclause headings contained in the Code may not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
Code. The headings of sections, subsections or other divisions of this Code are
intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section, subsection
or other division and shall not be deemed to be taken as titles of such
section, subsection or other division, nor as any part of said section,
subsection or other division unless expressly so provided.
(A.O.)
§ 1-105.   Tenses, Gender and Number.
   Except as may be otherwise stated in any provision of this Code, the present
tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future the present; the
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter, the feminine includes the
masculine and neuter, and the neuter includes the masculine and feminine; and
the singular includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
(A.O.)
§ 1-106.   Construction.
   1.   Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by any provision of
this Code, the Statutory Construction Act of 1972, 1 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 1501 et seq.,
shall be applied in construing this Code.
   2.   Effect of Repeal or Expiration of Code Section.
      A.   The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by
virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued
or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding
commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
      B.   When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance,
clause or provision shall itself be repealed, such repeal shall not be
construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision,
unless it shall be expressly so provided.
   3.   Saving Clause. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are the same
as those ordinances and regulations in force immediately prior to the adoption
of this Code, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances, resolutions
and regulations and not as a new enactment. The provisions of this Code shall
not affect any suit or prosecution pending or to be instituted to enforce any
of the prior ordinances or regulations. Except as specifically stated in this
Code or in the ordinance adopting this consolidation, codification and revision
of the ordinances and regulations, it is the intention of the Borough Council
that no ordinance or regulation of the Borough be amended, revised or repealed
by implication.
   4.   Resolutions. The provisions of this Code of Ordinances may contain
resolutions, that is, actions of the Borough Council (in written form and
designated "resolution”) which did not require prior public notice in
accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§ 45101 et seq.,
at the time of their passage by the Borough Council. Such "resolutions” are
included herein for ease of reference and the Borough Council does not intend
by their inclusion herein to require prior public notice before amending,
revising or repealing such resolution or resolutions as may have been included
herein in the future. It is the intention of the Borough Council that such
actions of the Borough Council that may be included in this Code and
specifically cited and designated as a resolution shall not become an ordinance
(requiring prior public notice before amendment, revision or repeal) by the
simple fact of inclusion in this Code.
(A.O.)
§ 1-107.   Normal Numbering.
   1.   Chapters. Chapters are numbered sequentially in Arabic throughout this
Code.
   2.   Parts. Parts are numbered sequentially in Arabic throughout this Code.
   3.   Whenever other divisions are necessary, Chapters shall be divided into
subchapters, Parts into subparts and designated with the Chapter or Part number
followed by a capital letter. For instance, Chapter 1 may be divided into
subchapters 1A and 1B.
   4.   Sections. Sections are numbered sequentially throughout a Chapter and a
Part such that the first number or numbers is the Chapter number, followed by a
hyphen, followed by the Part number, followed by the section number within the
Part. For example, "§ 1-101” designates Chapter 1, Part 1, § 1. Similarly, “§
27-305” designates Chapter 27, Part 3, § 5.
   5.   Internal Divisions of Sections. Whenever internal divisions are
necessary, sections shall be divided into subsections, subsections into
paragraphs, paragraphs into subparagraphs, subparagraphs into clauses, and
clauses into subclauses, and subclauses into items, designated as follows:
   1.   Subsection.
      A.   Paragraph.
         (1)   Subparagraph.
            (a)   Clause.
               1)   Subclause.
                  a)   Item.
                     i.   Subitem.
(A.O.)
§ 1-108.   Special Numbering Problems.
   1.   Addition of New Units Between Existing Units. If it becomes necessary
to introduce a new Chapter, Part or section between existing Chapters, Parts or
sections, the new Chapter, Part or section shall be designated by the addition
of a capital letter suffix to the preceding Chapter, Part or section number.
Thus, a Chapter introduced between Chapters 5 and 6 would be Chapter 5A and
sections in that Chapter would be numbered, for instance, “§ 5A-101.” If it
becomes necessary to introduce a Part between existing Parts 5 and 6 the new
Part would be Part 5A and sections in that Part would be numbered, for
instance, “§ 5-5A01.” A new section introduced between existing sections 5 and
6 would be “§ 5-105A.” When a number of new Parts or sections have been
introduced the Chapter or Part shall be renumbered.
   2.   If it becomes necessary to introduce a subsection between subsections,
for instance, subsections .5 and .6, the new subsection would be numbered
subsection .5-A.
   3.   If it becomes necessary to introduce a unit smaller than a subsection
between existing units, the entire subsection shall be revised and renumbered.
   4.   Vacated Numbers. Whenever a number is vacated by a revocation or
repeal, the remaining elements in the overall unit shall retain their old
numbers until the overall unit is completely revised. Prior to revision, the
vacated number may be marked: “[Reserved].”
(A.O.)
§ 1-109.   Amending Code.
   1.   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed Chapters, Parts, sections, paragraphs, clauses or other part
or provision hereof, by subsequent ordinance, such repealed portions may be
excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time as this Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code
by the Borough Council.
   2.   Amendment to any provision of this Code shall be made by specific
reference to the Chapter, Part, section and/or subsection number of this Code
in the following language:
      A.   Amendment or Revision. “Chapter _____, Part _____, Section _____,
Subsection _____, is hereby amended (revised) to read as follows . . . .” The
amended or revised provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
      B.   Addition. “Chapter _____, Part _____, Section _____, Subsection
_____, is hereby amended by the addition of the following . . . .” The new
provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
      C.   Repeal. “Chapter _____, Part _____, Section _____, Subsection _____,
is hereby repealed in its entirety.”
   3.   It is the intention of the Borough Council that the numbering scheme of
this Code be adhered to in enacting future ordinances. In the event that any
ordinance or other enactment be adopted which does not conform to the numbering
system of this Code, it is the intention of the Borough Council that such
enactment be renumbered in the process of supplementing, revising or updating
this Code to conform to the numbering scheme of this Code. The Borough Council
hereby acknowledges and confirms that the numbering scheme herein is for ease
of reference and that the renumbering of any enactment when added to this Code
shall not in any manner affect the validity of said enactment.
(A.O.)
§ 1-110.   Altering Code.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by addition or
deletion any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner
whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the
Borough Council.
(A.O.)
§ 1-111.   Penalties.
   1.   Penalty Where No Penalty Provided. Whenever in this Code or in any
ordinance of the Borough any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful,
or whenever in this Code or other ordinance the doing of any act is declared to
be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor:
      A.   Violations of Health, Safety and Welfare Provisions. For violations
of ordinances adopting building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire or
public safety codes; and for ordinances regulating water services, water
pollution, air pollution and noise, the following penalty shall be provided:
         (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision
of this Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
      B.   Other Violations. All other penalties, except for penalties in
Chapter 15, “Motor Vehicles and Traffic” (based on the Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), penalties and ordinances adopted under the authority
of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., earned income
tax ordinances adopted under the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6913 and
ordinances adopted under authority of the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq., should provide, generally:
         (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision
of this Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   2.   The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this Code shall not
prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive
or remedial action where called for or permitted under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United States of America. In addition, the
Borough may institute injunctive, mandamus or any other appropriate action or
proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement of this Code. Any court of
competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue restraining orders,
temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus or other appropriate forms of
remedy or relief.
(A.O.)
Part 2
Office of Borough Manager
§ 1-201.   Creation of the Office.
   The Office of Borough Manager is hereby created by the Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 1)
§ 1-202.   Appointment and Removal.
   The Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term by a majority of all
members of Council. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
he or she may be removed at any time by a majority vote of all its members. At
least 90 days before such removal is to become effective, the Council shall
furnish the Manager with a written statement setting forth its intention to
remove him or her.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 2)
§ 1-203.   Qualifications.
   The Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of executive and
administrative abilities, with special reference to the duties of the office as
herein outlined. The Manager need not be a resident of the Borough or of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylva nia at the time of appointment, but during the tenure
of office he or she may reside outside the Borough only with the approval of
Council. If the Council fails within a reasonable time, not to exceed 180 days
after the appointment, to approve the Manager’s residence outside the Borough
he or she must immediately become, and during his or her tenure remain, a
resident of the Borough.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 3)
§ 1-204.   Bond.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Manager shall give a bond to the
Borough with a bonding company as surety, to be approved by the Council, in the
sum of $100,000, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her
duties, the premium for said bond to be paid by the Borough.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 1-205.   Manager’s Employment Agreement.
   An employment agreement shall be executed between the Council and the
Borough Manager. The following topics will be considered: salary; term and
hours of work; severance pay; automobile requirements; moving expenses; home
sale and purchase expense; dues and subscriptions; professional development
expenses; general expenses; civic club membership; vacation; sick and military
leave; disability; health and life insurance; retirement system; and any other
terms and conditions of employment.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 5)
§ 1-206.   Powers and Duties.
   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the Borough and
shall be responsible to the Council as a whole for the proper and efficient
administration of the affairs of the Borough placed in his or her charge. The
power and duties of administra tion of all Borough business shall be vested in
the Manager, unless expressly imposed or conferred by statute or ordinance upon
other Borough officers. Subject to recall by ordinance of Council, the powers
and duties of the Borough Manager shall include the following:
      A.   To supervise and to be responsible for activities of all municipal
departments.
      B.   To hire and, when necessary for the good of the service, to suspend
or discharge any employee under his or her supervision; provided, that persons
covered by the civil service provisions of the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§ 45101
et seq., shall be hired, suspended or discharged in accordance with such
provisions; and, provided further, that the Manager shall report, at the next
meeting thereafter of Council, any action taken by authority this subsection.
      C.   To fix wages and salaries of all personnel under his or her
supervision, within ranges previously determined by Council.
      D.   To prepare and submit to Council, before the close of each fiscal
year, a budget for the next fiscal year and an explanatory budget message. In
preparing the budget, the Manager, or an officer designated by him or her,
shall obtain from the head of each department, agency or board, or any
qualified officer thereof, estimates of revenues and expenditures and such
other supporting data as is required. The Manager shall review such estimates
and may revise them before submitting the budget to the Council.
      E.   To be responsible for the administration of the budget after its
adoption by the Council.
      F.   To develop, in conjunction with the preparation of the yearly
budget, long- range fiscal plans for the Borough, such plans to be presented
annually to the Council for its review and adoption.
      G.   To hold such other municipal office and to head such municipal
depart ment as the Council may from time to time direct.
      H.   To attend all meetings of Council and its committees with the right
to take part in the discussions. The Manager shall receive notice of all
special meetings of Council and its committees.
      I.   To prepare the agenda for each meeting of Council and supply facts
pertinent thereto.
      J.   To keep the Council informed as to the conduct of Borough affairs;
to submit periodic reports on the condition of the Borough finances and such
other reports as the Council requests; and to make such recommendations to the
Council as he or she deems advisable.
      K.   To submit to Council, as soon as possible after the close of the
fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and the administrative
activities of the Borough for the preceding year.
      L.   To see that the provisions of all franchises, leases, permits and
privileges granted by the Borough are observed.
      M.   To employ, by and with the approval of Council, experts and
consultants to perform work and to advise in connection with any of the
functions of the Borough.
      N.   To attend to the letting of contracts in due form of law. The
Manager shall supervise the performance and faithful execution of the same
except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed by statute upon some other
Borough officer.
      O.   To see that all money owed the Borough is promptly paid and that
proper proceedings are taken for the security and collection of all the
Borough’s claims.
      P.   To serve as purchasing officer of the Borough and to purchase, in
accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code, all supplies and equipment
for the agencies, boards, departments and other offices of the Borough. The
Manager shall keep an account of all purchases and shall, from time to time or
when directed by Council, make a full written report thereof. He or she shall
also issue rules and regulations, subject to the approval of Council, governing
the procurement of all municipal supplies and equipment.
      Q.   To investigate and dispose of, or to designate an officer to
investigate and dispose of, all complaints regarding Borough services, and to
report to the Council thereon. All complaints regarding Borough services shall
be referred to the office of the Manager.
      R.   To enforce the ordinances and regulations of the Borough. To prepare
such ordinances and regulations as the Council may direct.
      S.   To maintain contact with outside agencies to assure effective
coordination so as to enhance the civic welfare of the Borough.
      T.   To hold the office of Borough Secretary with all rights and
privileges as provided in the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§ 45101 et seq. [Ord. 77-
10]
      U.   Additional duties and responsibilities as listed in the current
Borough Manager’s job description which is revised on an annual basis. [A.O.]
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 6; as amended by Ord. 77-10, 5/12/1977; and by A.O.)
§ 1-207.   Mayor’s Powers and Duties.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to delegate to the Borough Manager, subject
to revocation by written notification at any time, any of his or her non-
legislative and non- judicial powers and duties.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 7)
§ 1-208.   Limitation of Council’s Powers.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Borough Council, its committees and
its members shall deal with the administrative service of the Borough solely
through the Borough Manager and neither the Council nor any of its committees,
nor any of its members, shall give orders, publicly or privately, to any
subordinates of the Manager.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 8)
§ 1-209.   Disability or Absence of the Manager.
   If the Manager becomes ill or needs to be absent from the Borough, he or she
shall designate 1 qualified member of his or her staff to perform the duties of
the Manager during his or her absence or disability. The person so designated
shall not perform these duties for a period longer that 2 weeks without the
approval of the Council.
(Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974, § 9)
Part 3
Police Department
§ 1-301.   Police Department Established; Members.
   A Police Department is hereby established in and for the Borough. The Police
Department shall be composed of a Chief of Police and those other officers of
those ranks and as many patrolmen as Council shall from time to time determine.
(Ord. 79-9, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 1-302.   Chief of Police.
   The Chief of Police, under the direction of the Mayor, shall be in charge of
the Police Department and shall have supervision over the members of the Police
Department, in the exercise of their powers, duties and authority.
(Ord. 79-9, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 1-303.   Status of Existing Police Force.
   The existing police force of the Borough is hereby established as the Police
Department established by this Part. Borough police were appointed under an
ordinance enacted on September 19, 1871.
(Ord. 79-9, 3/19/1979, § 3)
§ 1-304.   Appointment of Special Policemen by Mayor.
   Nothing herein shall affect the authority of the Mayor to appoint special
policemen during emergencies.
(Ord. 79-9, 3/19/1979, § 4)
§ 1-305.   Additional Policy and Regulations.
   Additional policies and procedures for the Police Department are found in
the Rules, Regulations, Policies and Procedures for Uniformed Officers, which
is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(Ord. 79-9, 3/19/1979; as added by A.O.)
Part 4
Pension Plans
A.   Police Pension Plan.
§ 1-401.   Establishment of Plan.
   A police pension plan is hereby established pursuant to the Act of May 29,
1956, P.L. 1804, as amended. Such fund shall be under the direction of the
Borough of Troy and shall be applied under such regulations as the Borough of
Troy may prescribe.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 1)
§ 1-402.   Eligibility for Participation in Plan.
   Each full-time police officer now or hereafter employed by the Borough of
Troy shall participate in the police pension plan.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 2)
§ 1-403.   Age and Service Requirements.
   1.   Age and Service. All full-time police officers of the Borough of Troy
shall participate in the Borough Police Pension Plan and Fund from the date of
employment with the Borough of Troy Police Force and shall be eligible to
retire upon 25 years of service in the Borough or upon attaining the age of 55
years (or if an actuarial study has been made and shows that the age reduction
is feasible, upon attaining the age of 50 years), whichever shall be later.
Members hired prior to October 21, 1965, may retire after 20 years of service
and attaining the age of 60 years. Such members as are retired shall be subject
to service, from time to time, as a police reserve, in cases of riot, tumult or
preservation of the public peace until unfitted for such service, when they may
be finally discharged by reason of age or disability.
   2.   Military Service. Any member of the police force who has been a
regularly appointed employee of the Borough for a period of at least 6 months
and who, thereafter, shall enter into the military service of the United
States, shall have credited to his or her employment record for pension or
retirement benefits, all of the time spent by him or her in such military
service, if such employee returns or has heretofore returned to his or her
employment within 6 months after his or her separation from service.
   3.   Purchase of Credit for Military Service. Full service credit for each
year of military service or fraction thereof, not to exceed 5 years, is hereby
authorized for any member of the police force who was not employed by the
Borough prior to such military service. The amount due for the purchase of
credit for military service other than intervening military service shall be
computed by applying the average normal cost rate for Borough police pension
plans as certified by the Public Employee Retirement Study Commission, but not
to exceed 10 percent, to the member’s average annual rate of compensation over
the first 3 years of Borough service and multiplying the result by the number
of years and fractional part of a year of creditable nonintervening military
service being purchased together with interest at the 4-3/4 percent compounded
annually from the date of initial entry into Borough service to the date of
payment.
   4.   Ineligibility for Military Service Credits. Any member of the Police
Force shall be eligible to receive service credit for intervening and
nonintervening military service as provided in subsections .2 and .3 above;
provided, that he or she is not entitled to receive, eligible to receive now or
in the future, or is receiving retirement benefits for such service under a
retirement system administered and wholly or partially paid for by any other
governmental agency with the exception of a member eligible to receive or
receiving military retirement pay earned by a combination of active duty and
nonactive duty with a reserve or National Guard component of the armed forces
which retirement pay is payable only upon the attainment of a specified age and
period of service under 10 U.S.C. Ch. 67 (relating to retired pay for non-
regular service).
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 3; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-404.   [Reserved].
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989; as amended by A.O.)
§ 1-405.   Contribution Rate.
   Members shall pay into the fund, monthly, an amount equal to 5 percent of
all compensation paid to participant by the Borough of Troy. All such
contributions by participant shall be deducted by the Borough from the
participant’s compensation and paid into said pension fund.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 5)
§ 1-406.   Reduction or Waiver of Employee Contributions.
   The Borough Council may, by resolution, suspend or reduce employee
contributions for any year; provided, that actuarial studies show that this can
be done without impairing the actuarial soundness of the fund.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 6)
§ 1-407.   Retirement or Pension Benefits.
   The pension or retirement benefits shall be payable during the balance of
the participant’s life following actual retirement, and after fulfillment of
the age and service requirements set forth above. The monthly benefit shall be
set at one-half of the average monthly salary of the participant during the
last 36 months of employment.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 7)
§ 1-408.   Return of Member Contributions.
   Any member of the police force, who for any reason whatsoever, shall be
ineligible to receive a pension after having contributed any charges to a
police pension fund established pursuant to the provisions of the Act of May
29, 1956, P.L. 1804, or to this fund, shall be entitled to a refund of all such
moneys paid by him or her into such fund, plus interest earned on such moneys
after January 1, 1989, calculated at the rate of 5-1/2 percent, immediately
upon discontinuance of his or her employment with the force. If such
discontinuance is due to death, a refund of such moneys, with interest, as
determined above, shall be made to his or her designated beneficiary or, in
absence thereof, to his or her estate.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 8)
§ 1-409.   Allocation of Commonwealth Funds.
   Funds contributed by the Commonwealth to the police pension fund of the
Borough of Troy shall be applied in the order set forth below:
      A.   To reduce the unfunded liability, if any.
      B.   To apply against the annual obligation of the Borough for future
service costs.
      C.   To reduce member contributions.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 9)
§ 1-410.   Gifts.
   The Borough of Troy shall be authorized to take by gift, grant, devise or
bequest any money or property, in trust, for the benefit of such fund and the
care, management, investment and disposal of such trust funds or property shall
be invested in the Borough of Troy and the trust funds shall be governed
thereby, subject to such directions not inconsistent therewith as the donors of
such funds and property may prescribe.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 10)
§ 1-411.   Pension Benefits Not Subject to Legal Process Generally.
   The pension payments herein provided for, shall not be subject to
attachment, execution, levy, garnishment or other legal process, and shall be
payable only to the member, or the member’s designated beneficiary, and shall
not be subject to assignment of transfer.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 11)
§ 1-412.   Expenses of Administration.
   The expenses of administering this Part, including the compensation of any
actuary and the custodian of the fund, exclusive of the payment of retirement
allowances, shall be paid out of the fund.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 12)
§ 1-413.   Refunds.
   Any member who, for any reason whatsoever, shall be ineligible to receive a
pension after having contributed any charge to the pension fund shall be
entitled to a refund of all such moneys paid by him or her into the fund, plus
interest calculated at 5-1/2 percent per annum.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 13)
§ 1-414.   Disability and Death Benefits.
   Any member who is permanently disabled from his or her employment due to
service connected illness or injury shall be entitled to retire and receive a
benefit calculated in the manner benefits are calculated for those entering
upon regular retirement. The family of a member killed in the line of duty
shall receive the same benefits, which shall be payable to his or her spouse if
she survives him or her and if she fails to survive him or her or survives him
or her and subsequently remarries, then the same shall be payable to his or her
child or children who shall be under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 14)
§ 1-415.   Special Provision.
   In order to satisfy the obligation of the Troy Borough Police Pension Plan
as set forth in Ord. 5-1970, there shall be payable to a beneficiary selected
by annuitant Ray Haven a death benefit at the time of his or her death in the
amount of $2,000.
(Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989, § 15)
B.   Nonuniformed Employee Pension Plan.
§ 1-421.   Establishment of Pension Plan.
   1.   The Borough of Troy hereby establishes a nonuniformed employees pension
plan for certain of its employees not already covered by other municipal
pension or retirement plans.
   2.   The Borough of Troy hereby approves a Money Purchase Plan Joinder
Agreement, with accompanying Chapters I and IV of the Master Plan and Trust  1
, and all other terms of the Pennsylvania State Association of Borough’s Master
Plan and Trust, for implementation of said pension, with an exact copy of said
Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement, with accompanying Chapter I and IV of
the Master Plan and Trust, being attached hereto as Exhibit “1-A.” 1
   3.   The appropriate officers of the Borough of Troy are hereby authorized
and directed to execute said Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement, with
accompanying Chapters I and IV of the Master Plan and Trust, which Agreement
shall be identical in form and content to attached Exhibit “1-A”1 hereto.
   4.   The Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement, with accompanying Chapters I
and IV of the Master Plan and Trust, attached as Exhibit “1-A”  1  hereto and
the terms of the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs Master Plan and
Trust shall be known hereafter as the Borough of Troy Nonuniformed Employees
Pension Plan (the “Plan”).
   5.   The Borough of Troy further authorizes the Board of Trustees of the
Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs Master Plan and Trust to be the
designated Trustee for the Plan and that all contributions shall be held and
invested by such Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
   6.   The Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement, with accompanying Chapters I
and IV of the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs Master Plan and Trust
and the Borough of Troy’s participation in the Master Plan and Trust shall be
effective as of January 1, 1996.
(Ord. 96-4, 12/16/1996; as amended by Ord. 00-4, 12/29/2000, § I; and by Ord.
01-3, 11/14/2001)
 
Notes
1    Editor’s Note: The Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement with accompanying
  Chapters I and IV of the Master Plan and Trust are on file at the Borough office.
1    1Editor’s Note: The Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement with accompanying
  Chapters I and IV of the Master Plan and Trust are on file at the Borough office.
1    Editor’s Note: The Money Purchase Plan Joinder Agreement with accompanying
  Chapters I and IV of the Master Plan and Trust are on file at the Borough office.
Part 5
Planning Commission
§ 1-501.   Creation of Commission.
   A Borough Planning Commission, composed of 7 members, appointed in the
manner provided by law (53 P.S. § 10202), is hereby created and established in
and for the Borough. The Borough Planning Commission shall perform all its
duties and may exercise any and all of the powers vested by law in planning
agencies in boroughs; provided, the persons constituting the Borough Planning
Commission now functioning in the Borough shall constitute the Planning
Commission hereby created, and nothing in this section shall affect the tenure
of the present Borough Planning Commission. All vacancies hereafter occurring
in the Planning Commission, regardless of the cause, shall be filled in
accordance with the provisions of the law governing planning agencies in
boroughs at the time of the occurrence of vacancy.
(Ord. 79-19, 11/19/1979)
Part 6
Volunteer Firemen’s Relief Association
§ 1-601.   Recognition of Volunteer Firemen’s Relief Association.
   1.   The following association is hereby recognized as actively engaged in
providing fire protection and/or emergency services in the Borough of Troy.
      Troy Volunteer Firemen’s Relief Association
   The above-named association has been created for the benefit of its members
and their families in case of death, sickness, temporary or permanent
disability or accident suffered in the line of duty
   2.   The above-named association of the Borough of Troy is designated the
proper association to receive such funds as are due and payable to the Borough
Treasurer by the Treasurer of the state from the tax on premiums from foreign
fire insurance companies.
(A.O.)
§ 1-602.   Certification to Auditor General.
   The Borough Council shall annually certify to the Auditor General of the
Commonwealth, the name of the active association and the percentage of service
they contribute to the protection of the Borough. Such certification shall be
on forms prescribed by the Auditor General.
(A.O.)
§ 1-603.   Annual Appropriation.
   There is annually appropriated from the Borough Treasury all such sums of
money that may hereafter be paid into the Borough Treasury by the Treasurer of
the state on account of taxes paid on premiums of foreign fire insurance
companies in pursuance of the Act of December 18, 1984, No. 205, §§ 701 et
seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General
Assembly of Pennsylvania. Such moneys received by the Borough Treasurer from
the State Treasurer shall be distributed to the duly recognized association
within 60 days of receipt. The funds shall be distributed on the basis of the
percentage of service established in the certification to the Auditor General
and with other provisions of the Act.
(A.O.)
Part 7
Drug and Alcohol Policy
§ 1-701.   General Statement of Policy.
   Troy Borough has a commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace for
its employees and to ensure efficient delivery of services to the public. The
Troy Borough Council recognizes that, in order to accomplish this goal, it must
implement programs that will enable the Borough to achieve its objectives in a
cost-effective manner, while respecting the rights of Borough employees.
Statistics show that employees who are substance abusers are absent from work
approximately 3 times more often than are other employees, are about 1/3 less
productive when they are at work and are twice as likely as others to have
accidents in the workplace. Statistics indicated that such employees also are
more likely to experience serious medical and emotional problems and to
disregard safety policies and procedures. With this in mind, the Troy Borough
Council must make every reasonable attempt to establish a work environment that
is free, directly and indirectly, from the adverse effects of drug and alcohol
abuse.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 1)
§ 1-702.   Statement of General Objectives.
   The general objectives of the Troy Borough Council in adopting this Part and
policy include the following:
      A.   Ensuring that the workplace is free from the effects of drug and
alcohol use.
      B.   Establishing effective means to detect and deal with drug and
alcohol abuse while respecting the rights of Borough employees.
      C.   Complying with applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 2)
§ 1-703.   Regulations Concerning Use, Possession or Distribution of Alcohol or
Prohibited Substances.
   1.   No employee of Troy Borough shall use, consume, possess, sell,
distribute or receive alcohol and/or illegal drugs or substances (“prohibited
substances”), nor shall any employee of Troy Borough distribute or sell
prescription drugs while on or within property of Troy Borough and engaged in
the course of his or her employment. Violation of these rules by an employee
shall subject the employee to discipline up to and including discharge subject
to applicable provisions and procedures of a collective bargaining agreement.
Illegal drugs and prohibited substances shall include prescription medication
for which the employee does not have a valid prescription.
   2.   Troy Borough reserves the right, upon reasonable suspicion or other
good cause, to search lockers situated upon its premises and made available for
use by its employees.
   3.   Any employee refusing to consent or cooperate with a reasonable search
or investigation will be relieved of duty and removed from Borough property or
workplace and will be subject to discipline up to and including discharge for
insubordination.
   4.   Prescription drugs and medications should be kept in their original
container identifying the drug, dosage, date of prescription and physician.
Employees shall notify their foreman or supervisor if they are taking
prescription medications which might impair the employee’s working ability or
alertness.
   5.   Employees are also expected not to engage in any off-duty or off-
premises drug or alcohol related conduct which may affect their work
performance.
   6.   No employee shall be under the influence of alcohol or of any
prohibited substance while upon or within property of Troy Borough, or engaged
in his or her employment. Violation of this rule shall subject the employee to
discipline up to and including discharge, as set forth in subsection .1 above.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 3)
§ 1-704.   Adoption of DOT Regulations Mandating Drug and Alcohol Testing.
   The Troy Borough Council hereby accepts its obligations under the Omnibus
Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 (Act) and regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation (DOT) for employees of Troy Borough holding
commercial driver’s licenses and those persons applying for positions requiring
such licenses. This Part is adopted to implement a policy required under said
DOT regulations as presently found in 49 C.F.R. Part 40, which shall apply
without being fully recited herein. DOT regulations establish procedures
governing the conduct of breath alcohol testing (BAT), including screening and
confirmation tests, and establish standards to be followed by BAT technicians
conducting tests under said regulations. The Troy Borough Council expects that
breath alcohol technicians will conduct tests and their operations in
accordance with applicable DOT regulations.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 4)
§ 1-705.   Mandatory Drug and Alcohol Testing Required.
   The Troy Borough Council hereby establishes a mandatory drug and alcohol
testing program as is required under DOT regulations and the Omnibus
Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. This policy shall apply to all
employees of the Borough holding commercial driver’s licenses and to all
persons applying for employment positions with Troy Borough which require
commercial driver’s licenses. Testing shall include breath alcohol and urine
testing. Testing samples shall be analyzed for at least the following
substances: alcohol; marijuana (THC metabolite); cocaine; amphetamines; opiates
(including heroine); and phenyencyclidine (PCP), subject to future amendment of
DOT regulations. All such testing shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this policy.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 5)
§ 1-706.   Types of Drug and Alcohol Testing.
   Drug and alcohol testing required under this policy shall be as follows:
      A.   Pre-Employment Testing. All applicants for employment positions with
Troy Borough shall be tested for alcohol and drugs prior to commencing employ
ment with the Borough. A driver applicant testing positive for alcohol or drugs
will not be considered for employment with Troy Borough.
      B.   Random Testing. Each year commencing 1996, Troy Borough shall use a
random process based upon Social Security numbers to select at least 50 percent
of its employees holding commercial driver’s licenses (CDL drivers), who shall
be tested for the use of controlled substances. Additionally, at least 25
percent of Troy Borough CDL drivers shall be randomly tested for alcohol use in
the first year of this policy. The annual alcohol testing rate in future years
shall, under DOT regulations, be based upon the percentage of violations
(defined as alcohol tests 0.04 or greater and refusals to test) in the
preceding year, such rate to be either 10 percent, 25 percent or 50 percent.
Drivers selected on a random basis for drug abuse testing shall be required to
supply a urine sample. Drivers selected on a random basis for alcohol testing
shall be required to undergo breath alcohol testing. Notification of random
testing will be given to employees immediately prior to the testing; should an
employee not be present at the time he or she is selected notification will be
given to the employee upon his or her return to the workplace.
      C.   Periodic Testing. Should annual or periodic medical examinations of
CDL drivers become mandatory, Troy Borough will test each driver for drug and/
or alcohol use during such annual or periodic medical examinations.
      D.   Reasonable Suspicion Testing. Reasonable suspicion testing shall be
conducted when a trained supervisor observes behavior or appearance of an
employee subject to this policy which is characteristic of alcohol or drug
misuse. Conduct giving rise to reasonable suspicion under this paragraph .D
must be witnessed by a supervisor of the employee who has received training in
detection of probability of drug or alcohol use by observation of a person’s
behavior. If possible, a Council member other than a Roadmaster or the Borough
Secretary should immediately notify a Supervisor, Roadmaster or Borough
Secretary, although availability of such official shall not be deemed a
prerequisite for the conduct of reasonable suspicion testing if the supervisory
employee witnessing such conduct has previously obtained such training.
      E.   Mandatory Post-Accident Testing. Drivers shall be subject to drug
and alcohol testing as soon as is practicable after a commercial vehicle
accident. For purposes of this paragraph .E, an accident is defined as a
collision involving either: (1) a fatality; (2) bodily injury to any person
which requires that person to be transported from the collision scene for
medical treatment; (3) damage to any vehicle which requires that vehicle to be
towed from the scene; or (4) the driver’s receipt of a citation for a moving
violation of state or local law arising from the collision. In no case shall an
alcohol test required under this subsection be conducted later than 8 hours
after the collision, nor shall a drug test required under this paragraph .E be
conducted later than 32 hours after the collision. No driver subject to testing
under this paragraph .E shall consume alcohol from the time of the incident
until such time as the tests required have been conducted. If, as a consequence
of a collision, a CDL driver is seriously injured and cannot provide a specimen
at the time of the collision as set forth above, the employee must provide the
necessary authorization to the Borough to obtain hospital records and other
documents which would indicate whether there were any prohibited substances or
alcohol in the employee’s system at the time of the collision and post-
collision testing.
      F.   Follow-up Testing. Any CDL driver who has returned to duty after a
positive alcohol or drug test shall be subject to unannounced follow-up drug
and alcohol testing for a period of up to 60 months following the employee’s
return to duty. A minimum of 6 unannounced follow-up tests must be conducted in
the first 12 months after the employee returns to duty, and the Troy Borough
Council or its designee may require unannounced follow-up tests continuing for
a period of up to 60 months following the employee’s return to duty.
      G.   Return to Duty Testing. Should Troy Borough offer a CDL driver re-
employment or a return to duty after the CDL driver has been referred to an
alcohol and substance abuse professional for treatment and the CDL driver has
participated in all recommended treatment, the CDL driver shall be tested for
alcohol and prohibited substances prior to being returned to duty and to be
eligible to return to duty and employment, the CDL driver must test negative
for both alcohol and prohibited substances.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 6)
§ 1-707.   Prompt Submission for Testing.
   Employees shall appear at the proper facility and submit for testing
required under this policy within 2 hours after being notified that they are
obligated to submit for such random, reasonable suspicion, post-accident,
follow-up or return to duty testing.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 7)
§ 1-708.   Refusal to Test and Uncompleted Tests.
   1.   Refusal by an employee to submit to drug and alcohol testing required
under this policy shall subject the employee to discipline up to and including
discharge, at the discretion of the Troy Borough Council.
   2.   Refusal by an employee to submit to testing required under this policy
shall be deemed to include any act or omission which prevents, thwarts or
frustrates the objectives of this policy and the requirements imposed under DOT
regulations including, but not limited to, the following: (A) refusal to submit
in timely fashion to testing as required under this policy; (B) refusal or
failure by the employee to complete, sign or initial the required breath
alcohol testing form; (C) refusal or failure without good cause to provide
breath; (D) refusal or failure without good cause to provide an adequate amount
of breath to allow proper testing; and/or (E) failure or refusal to otherwise
cooperate with the testing process in a way which prevents the completion of
the test.
   3.   In accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 40.69, should Troy Borough be advised
that a CDL employee has attempted and failed to provide an adequate amount of
breath, the Troy Borough Council, itself or through its designee, shall direct
the employee to obtain, as soon as practical after the attempted provision of
breath, an evaluation from a licensed physician who is acceptable to the
Council, concerning the employee’s medical ability to provide an adequate
amount of breath.
      A.   If the physician determines, in his or her reasonable medical
judgment, that a medical condition has or, with a high degree of probability,
could have precluded the employee from providing an adequate amount of breath,
the employee’s failure to provide an adequate amount of breath shall not be
deemed a refusal to take a test. The physician shall provide to the Troy
Borough Council a written statement of the basis for his or her conclusion.
      B.   If the licensed physician, in his or her reasonable medical
judgment, is unable to make the determination set forth above, the employee’s
failure to provide an adequate amount of breath shall be regarded by the Troy
Borough Council as a refusal to take a test, in which event the employee shall
be subject to discipline up to and including discharge for refusal to submit to
testing. The licensed physician shall provide to the Troy Borough Council a
written statement of the basis for his or her conclusion.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 8)
§ 1-709.   Testing Forms Prescribed.
   The Troy Borough Council hereby adopts for use in conducting the drug and
alcohol testing program established under this policy such forms as are
prescribed by the United States Department of Transportation and/or licensed
testing establishments.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 9)
§ 1-710.   Precautionary Measures.
   1.   Should an employee’s behavior or appearance suggest to his or her
supervisor misuse of alcohol or prohibited substances and a test cannot be
administered immediately, the employee shall be removed from performing safety
sensitive duties or at least 8 hours, and for 24 hours in the case of CDL
drivers.
   2.   Employees who have any alcohol concentration (defined as 0.02 percent
or greater) in their breath when tested just before or after performing safety
sensitive functions shall be removed from performing such duties for 8 hours
and, in the case of CDL drivers, for at least 24 hours, or until another breath
test is administered and the result is less than 0.02 percent.
   3.   Should a CDL driver’s test results be positive for alcohol and drugs,
the employee shall not engage in the following activities until such time as
the employee submits to another test which indicates the absence of alcohol and
prohibited substances in the employee’s system: operate commercial vehicles,
load or unload commercial vehicles, ride in a commercial vehicle or repair a
commercial vehicle.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 10)
§ 1-711.   Notification of Test Results.
   Troy Borough shall notify its CDL drivers and driver applicants of the
results of tests conducted pursuant to this policy. Those persons testing
positive for alcohol and/or prohibited substances shall also be advised
specifically as to what drugs or amount of alcohol was or were discovered
present in their system in the testing.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 11)
§ 1-712.   Cautionary Measures Regarding Prescriptions.
   Whenever a CDL employee subject to this policy receives a prescription, a
form should be completed by the employee’s attending or prescribing physician
and provided to the employee, stating whether or not the prescribed medication
will affect the individual’s driving ability and whether the prescribed
medication would appear or be reflected on a drug test.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 12)
§ 1-713.   Effects of Positive Test Results.
   An employee whose results of drug and alcohol testing under this policy
establish existence in the employee’s body system of 0.04 alcohol content or of
a prohibited drug or substance shall be deemed to have violated Borough policy
regarding alcohol and drug abuse. Upon the first such positive test result, an
employee shall be referred to mandatory alcohol and drug rehabilitation
treatment. An employee who participates as required in such treatment program
who successfully completes follow up or return to duty testing shall be
returned to employment without further discipline. An employee who refuses or
fails to participate as required in referred rehabilitation treatment shall be
subject to further discipline up to and including discharge and shall not be
returned to duty. Any further instance of positive test results for alcohol
and/or prohibited substances, as defined above, or an employee’s failure to
submit to testing, as defined above, shall subject the employee to discipline
up to and including discharge.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 13)
§ 1-714.   Maintenance of Records.
   1.   All records relating to administration and results of the Borough
alcohol and drug testing program shall be maintained by the Borough for a
minimum of 5 years, subject to the requirements of 49 C.F.R. § 40.83.
   2.   Troy Borough shall retain a medical review officer who shall be a
licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy with knowledge of drug abuse
disorders, to interpret results of alcohol and drug testing in accordance with
DOT regulations.
   3.   Troy Borough shall be the sole custodian of individual test results and
shall retain reports of test results for a minimum of 5 years.
   4.   Troy Borough shall retain in CDL driver’s personnel file information
indicating only the following: (A) that the employee submitted to a drug and/or
alcohol test; (B) the date of such test; (C) the location of such test; (D) the
identity of the person or entity performing the test; and (E) whether the test
finding was “positive” or “subnegative.”
   5.   Troy Borough shall also maintain an annual (calendar) year summary of
the records relating to the administration and results of the testing program
for its drivers under DOT regulations.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 14)
§ 1-715.   Confidentiality of Records.
   No person may obtain the individual test results retained by Troy Borough
and no results shall be released to any person or entity, without first
receiving written authorization from the tested individual, unless otherwise
required by law.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 15)
§ 1-716.   Employee Assistance Program (EAP).
   1.   Troy Borough shall establish an employee assistance program which shall
include the following:
      A.   An educational and training component for drivers, addressing
alcohol and controlled substances.
      B.   An educational and training component for supervisory personnel,
addressing alcohol and controlled substances.
      C.   A written statement on file and available for inspection, outlining
the Borough’s employee assistance program.
   2.   The employee assistance training program for all CDL drivers and
supervisory personnel will consist of at least 60 minutes of training, and the
training program shall include the following elements:
      A.   Effects and consequences of alcohol and/or controlled substance use
on personal health, safety and the work environment.
      B.   The manifestations and behavioral causes that may indicate alcohol
and/or controlled substance use or abuse.
      C.   Documentation of training given to drivers and supervisory
personnel.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 16)
§ 1-717.   Noncontractual Arrangement.
   This policy and other documents executed or delivered pursuant to or in
connection with this policy are not intended to confer any contractual or
rights or claims in favor of Troy Borough employees. Any failure to implement
the policy or any part thereof, any variation, addition or omission to or of
the procedures set forth in the policy shall not confer any contractual or
other right or claims in favor of the employees which are not otherwise
conferred by law.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 17)
§ 1-718.   Reservation of Rights.
   The Troy Borough Council reserves the right to add to, change or modify this
policy at its sole discretion, and to discipline or discharge any employee at
any time, except if those rights are restricted by law or by any applicable
collective bargaining obligation or agreement. The Troy Borough Council and
Troy Borough accept no liability in the event of any alleged breach of any of
the procedures or provisions set forth in this policy. The Troy Borough Council
encourages every employee to voluntarily comply with this policy, for his or
her own safety as well as the safety of others. Because of its importance, the
Troy Borough Council shall take all necessary steps to ensure implementation of
compliance with the policy.
(Res. 96-1, 1/15/1996, § 18)
Part 8
Personnel Administration
§ 1-801.   Accountability.
   All Borough employees shall work under the direction of and be responsible
to the Borough Manager as provided in Ord. 4-1974, 10/9/1974 [Part 1], except
that work schedules and law enforcement duties of police officers will be under
the direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, § I as amended by Ord. 79-21, 11/19/1979)
§ 1-802.   New Employees.
   All new employees shall be considered temporary during the first 6 months of
employment. Prior to their 6 month anniversary date, the Borough Manager will
recommend to the full Council either full-time or part-time status or
dismissal.
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, § II)
§ 1-803.   Hours.
   All nonsalaried employees shall work 40 hours per week, with the hours
determined by the employee’s department head. All nonsalaried employees who
work in excess of 8 hours in 1 day or more than 40 hours in 1 week will receive
either compensatory time off or pay at the rate of 1-1/2 times the regular rate
in excess of the above limits, with the Borough retaining the option of
compensation. Any employee required to work on holidays or Sundays will be paid
at the rate of 2 times the hourly rate (excluding all employees whose regular
work schedule includes Sundays). All nonsalaried employees working overtime on
a holiday will be paid at the regular overtime rate of 1-1/2 times the hourly
rate.
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, § III; as amended by Ord. 79-21, 11/19/1979)
§ 1-804.   Benefits.
   1.   The Borough shall provide an employee benefits program for all Borough
employees with the benefits package that is presently in effect as of the date
of this Part. Such package includes term life insurance, accidental death and
dismemberment insurance, and medical insurance. Medical insurance will be
provided for dependant spouses and children of employees. Nothing shall
preclude the Borough from providing additional coverage for employees but
coverage shall not be reduced for any employee after being admitted to the
plan; such benefits are only available to full-time employees of the Borough
and cease when an individual terminates or is terminated from his or her
position in the Borough. [Ord. 80-4]
   2.   All uniformed police officers will, upon retirement, receive a police
pension in
accordance with the terms and conditions of Ord. 89-2, 4/17/1989 [Part 3].
[A.O.]
   3.   The following holidays will be observed by employees of the Borough:
New Years Day; Good Friday; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day;
Thanksgiving Day; and 1 personal day; Christmas Day. When Christmas falls on a
Saturday, Friday will be the holiday; on Sunday, Monday will be the holiday. A
salaried employee required to work on a holiday will receive compensatory time
off work. [Ord. 80-4]
   4.   The following vacation schedule applies to all full-time employees: 1
through 10 years service–2 weeks vacation; 11 through 20 years service–3 weeks
vacation; over 20 years service–4 weeks vacation. (The first and last eligible
year will be based on date employed or terminated and will be prorated as
follows: employed May 1 or after or terminated August 31 or before, authorizes
you only one-half of your yearly eligible amount. Employed April 30 or before,
or terminated September 1 or after, authorizes you your full yearly eligible
amount.) Employees shall notify their department head of desired vacation dates
by April 15 of that year. All employees must take vacations and vacation time
cannot be accumulated from 1 year to the next. A holiday which falls within a
vacation week shall not be counted as a day of vacation. A vacation week shall
consist of a basic work week in terms of days and hours. Employees prevented
from taking vacation due to essential work may be reimbursed for unused
vacation, not to exceed 1 week, at the end of the year.
 
1.   Employed May 1 or after            One-half of the eligible amount
2.   Terminated August 31 or before   
1.   Employed April 30th or before      Full eligible amount
2.   Terminated September 1 or after   
   5.   All employees of the Borough will be entitled to sick leave on the same
basis as vacation. Sick leave may be accumulated from year to year to a maximum
of 40 days. On the effective date of this subsection, employees will be granted
accumulated sick leave on the foregoing basis effective from the dates of this
Part. An employee who is absent due to illness for 3 or more days must submit a
doctor’s certificate before being compensated for lost time. Sick leave shall
not be combine with vacation except with a doctor’s certificate. Employees on
sick leave whose sickness or injury absence is covered by worker’s compensation
will be reimbursed only for the difference between the worker’s compensation
and regular pay for the days of sick leave for which they are eligible.
Employees will not be paid for unused sick leave. [Ord. 79-21]
   6.   Employees may be granted excused absences, not exceeding 3 days, to
count as sick leave for urgent personal purposes, such as attending the funeral
of a relative.
   7.   The Borough Council may authorize leaves of absence for full-time
Borough employees, with or without pay, for the following purpose: (A)
attendance at school for the purpose of training in subjects relate to the work
of the employee and which will benefit the employee and the Borough service;
(B) urgent personal business requiring employees attention for an extended
period of time; and (C) purposes other than the above deemed beneficial to the
Borough service. All unauthorized and unreported absence shall be considered
absence without leave and deduction of pay shall automatically be made for the
period of absence. Unauthorized absences constitute grounds for disciplinary
action. [Ord. 79-21]
   8.   An employee who is required to absent himself or herself from work for
jury duty shall be paid the difference between his or her compensation for jury
duty and his or her regular rate of pay, provided the employee did not
volunteer for jury duty [Ord. 79-21]
   9.   Additional personnel issues may be reviewed in the employee handbook.
[A.O.]
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, HIV; as amended by Ord. 79-21, 11/19/1979; by Ord. 80-4,
11/19/1979; and by A.O.)
§ 1-805.   Personal Expense on Official Duty.
   When an employee is authorized to use his or her privately owned vehicle on
official Borough business, he or she shall be reimbursed at the rate per mile
established by legislature for state employees. An official or employee engaged
in official business authorized by Borough Council may be reimbursed for all or
part of necessarily incurred expenses.
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, § V as amended by Ord. 79-21, 11/19/1979)
§ 1-806.   Resignation of Employees.
   To remain in good standing, an employee must give at least 14 calendar days
notice unless, because of extenuating circumstances, the Borough agrees to
permit a shorter period of notice.
(Ord. 77-6, 5/12/1977, § VI)
Part 9
Fire Insurance Proceeds
§ 1-901.   Use of Fire Insurance Proceeds.
   1.   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall pay a claim of a named
insured for fire damage to a structure located within the Borough of Troy where
the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies
exceed $7,500, unless the insurer is furnished by the Borough Treasurer with a
certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law of 1921, as
amended by Act 98 of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994 (collectively the “Act”) and
unless there is compliance with the procedures set forth in § 508(c) and (d) of
the Act.
   2.   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property (“municipal claims”) or there are expenses which
the Borough has incurred as a cost for the removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Manager of the Borough of Troy shall immediately render a bill
for such work, if he or she has not already done so. Upon written request of
the named insured specifying the tax description of the property, the name and
address of the insurer and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report
of the claim, the Treasurer shall furnish a certificate within 14 working days
after the request, to the insurer, a certificate (or at his or her discretion
an oral notice confirmed in writing) either:
      A.   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property.
      B.   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses, accompa
nied by a bill for such amounts.
   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed delinquent
for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims under
applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to subsection
.1 of this section, the insurer shall transfer to the Treasurer an amount from
the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay such sums prior to making payment to
the named insured, subject to the provisions of subsection .3 hereof.
   3.   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to subsection .2 of this section, or where the Treasurer has issued a
certificate described in subsection .2.A above indicating that there are no
municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the insurer shall
pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss agreed
upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60 percent of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or
structure, the following procedures must be followed:
      A.   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Borough, in the aggregate of $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or fraction
thereof.
      B.   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the Borough, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than calculated under the
foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Treasurer from
the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate. If there is more
than 1 insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
insurers insuring the building or other structure.
      C.   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Treasurer shall do the following:
         (1)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the Borough to be
required in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as
required by this Part. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the Borough in
connection with such removal, repair or securing or any proceedings related
thereto.
         (2)   Mail to the named insured, at the address received from the
insurer, a notice the proceeds have been received by the Borough and that the
procedures under this subsection shall be followed.
         (3)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the Borough
a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, in which event the Treasurer shall, if such
estimate is deemed by the Treasurer to be reasonable, return to the insured the
amount of the funds transferred to the Borough in excess of that required to
pay the municipal expenses; provided, the Borough has not commenced to remove,
repair or secure the building or other structure, in which case the Borough
will complete the work.
         (4)   Pay to the Borough manager, for reimbursement to the Borough
general fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the Borough.
         (5)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund (without interest) to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Borough Manager that
the repair, removal or securing of the building or other structure has been
completed in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations of the
Borough.
         (6)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability
of the Borough to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this Part, or to insurance proceeds,
by an action at law or in equity to enforce the codes of the Borough or to
enter into an agreement with the named insured with regard to such other
disposition of the proceeds as the Borough may deem responsible.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-902.   Limits of Liability.
   Nothing in this Part shall be construed to make an insurance company,
association or exchange liable for any amount in, excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this Part
or to make this Borough, any Borough official, a municipality or public
official an insured under a policy of insurance or to create an obligation to
pay delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as
provided in this Part.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-903.   Insurance Company Rights Reserved.
   An insurance company, association or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this Part for delinquent taxes or structure removal liens or
removal expenses incurred by the Borough shall have a full benefit of such
payment, including all rights or subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-904.   Construction.
   This Part shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to deter
the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment of
property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-905.   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development.
   The Secretary of the Borough shall transmit a certified copy of this Part
promptly to the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
§ 1-906.   Penalty.
   Any owner of property, any named insured or insurer who violates the
provisions of this part or who shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements hereof shall be sentenced, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of
not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3/15/1993; as revised by A.O.)
Part 10
Municipal Authorities
A.   Troy Borough Municipal Authority.
§ 1-1001.   Desire and Intention of Municipal Authorities of the Borough.
   It is the desire and intention of the municipal authorities of the Borough
of Troy, Bradford County Pennsylvania, to organize an Authority under the
“Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” approved May 2, 1945, its supplements
and amendments, for the purpose of exercising any and all of the powers
conferred by said Act.
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 1; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 1-1002.   Name of Authority.
   The name of the proposed Authority is Troy Borough Municipal Authority.
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 2; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 1-1003.   Articles of Incorporation.
   The proposed Articles of Incorporation of said Authority are as follows:
   Municipal Authority
   Articles of Incorporation
   To The Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
   In compliance with the Municipality Authorities Act of 1945, its supplements
and amendments, the Borough of Troy, County of Bradford, Pennsylvania, pursuant
to an ordinance duly adopted by the municipal authorities of said municipality,
signifying its desire and intention to form an Authority, hereby certifies:
   1.   The name of the Authority shall be “Troy Borough Municipal Authority.”
   2.   This Authority is formed under the Municipality Authorities Act of
1945, its supplements and amendments.
   3.   No other Authority organized under the Municipality Authorities Act of
1945, its supplements or amendments, or under the Act approved June 28, 1939,
P.L. 463, its supplements or amendments, is in existence in or for the
incorporating municipality named herein.
   4.   The name of the incorporating municipality is the Borough of Troy.
   5.   The names and addresses of the Mayor and the members of the Council of
the Borough of Troy, such persons being the municipal authorities of said
municipality, are as follows:
   [Here followed the names and addresses of the municipal authorities of the
Borough.]
   6.   The membership of the Board of the Authority to be formed hereby shall
consist of 5 members who are citizens of the municipality and shall be
appointed to the Board by the Council of the Borough of Troy for a term of 5
years, except that for the original Board 1 member shall be appointed for 1
year, 1 for 2 years, 1 for 3 years, 1 for 4 years and 1 for 5 years, and after
the expiration of any original Board member’s term, the new appointee shall
take office for a 5-year term.
   7.   The names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of the Authority to be formed hereby are as follows:
   [Here follow the names, addresses and terms of office of the first members
of the Board of the Authority.]
   8.   Whenever a vacancy shall, for any reason, exist in the Board of the
Authority, the vacancy shall be filled by the municipal authorities of the
Borough.
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 3; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 1-1004.   Members of the Board of the Authority.
   The following persons, hereinafter designated as appointees of the Borough
of Troy, are hereby appointed members of the Board of the Authority with the
following terms of office:
   [Here followed the names and addresses and the respective terms of office of
the first persons appointed to the Board of the Authority.]
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 4; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 1-1005.   Execution of Articles of Incorporation.
   The Articles of Incorporation of said Authority in substantially the form
set forth in §
1-1003 of this subpart shall be executed on behalf of the Borough of Troy by
the President of Council and the Mayor of the Borough of Troy and under its
municipal seal attested by the Secretary of the said Borough, and such officers
are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all things necessary and
appropriate to effect and establish the said Authority in conformity with the
“Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” its amendments and supplements.
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 5; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 1-1006.   Adoption of this Subpart.
   The adoption of this subpart is deemed necessary for the benefit and
preservation of the public health, peace, comfort and general welfare of the
people of the Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 4-1952, 5/19/1952, § 6; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
B.   Troy Industrial Development Authority.
§ 1-1011.   Desire to Organize Industrial Development Authority.
   It is the desire of the municipality of the Borough of Troy, in the County
of Bradford, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to organize an industrial
develop ment authority under the Industrial and Commercial Development
Authority Law, Act of August 23, 1967, P.L. 251, as amended.
(Res. 4/6/1974, § 1)
§ 1-1012.   Adoption of Articles of Incorporation of Troy Industrial
Development Authority.
   Pursuant thereto, and in conformity with the requirements of the Industrial
and Commercial Development Authority Act, the articles of incorporation for
such an authority, in a form attached to this subpart and incorporated into it
by reference, are adopted in full:
   Articles of Incorporation
   of
   Troy Industrial Development Authority
To the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania:
In compliance with the requirements of the Industrial and Commercial
Development Authority Law and pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Council
of Troy Borough, Pennsylvania, that an industrial development authority be
established, under the provisions of the aforementioned law, the Mayor of the
Borough of Troy, Pennsylvania, that a certificate of incorporation be issued to
said Authority does hereby certify:
   1.   The name of the Authority shall be “Troy Industrial Development
Authority.”
   2.   The Authority is formed under the Industrial and Commercial Development
Authority Law, Act of August 23, 1967, P.L. 251.
   3.   The name of the incorporating municipality is Borough of Troy,
Pennsylvania, in the County of Bradford.
   4.   The names and addresses of the members of Council of Troy Borough,
Pennsylvania are as follows:
   [Here followed the names and addresses of the members of Troy Borough
Council at the time of incorporation.]
   5.   The names and addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of said Authority are as follows:
   [Here followed the names and addresses and the respective terms of office of
the first persons appointed to the Board of the Authority.]
   All of whom reside in and are citizens of Troy Borough, Bradford County,
Pennsylvania.
   6.   The term of existence of the Authority shall be 50 years.
(Res. 4/6/1974, § 2)
§ 1-1013.   Duty of Mayor in Connection with Industrial Development Authority.
   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to take such other steps as may be
necessary or desirable to create the Authority and to effectuate this subpart.
(Res. 4/6/1974, § 7)
Part 11
Independent Auditor
§ 1-1101.   Independent Accountant.
   In accordance with the 1963 amendments to the Borough Code, the Borough of
Troy does hereby ordain that the office of elected Borough Auditor be abolished
and that Troy Borough shall appoint a competent, independent accountant to
audit the books of the Borough.
(Ord. 2-1964, 2/11/1964)
Part 12
Examination of Borough Records
§ 1-1201.   Examination of Records; Application.
   1.   Any citizen of the Commonwealth, except Borough officials and
employees, wishing to examine and inspect the public records of the Borough of
Troy shall present his or her written, signed application to the official in
charge of the pertinent record.
   2.   Said writing shall specify the type of record the citizen wishes to
examine or copy. “Catch-all” requests shall not be honored.
   3.   Before the Borough Secretary shall permit examination of the Borough
records in his or her possession, the citizen’s application shall be approved
by a majority of a standing committee of 3, composed of 2 members of Council
and the Mayor who shall be authorized to examine the applicant orally to
ascertain that the request is made in good faith for information and not for
the purpose of harassing Borough operations and that the examination will not
disclose material to which the citizen has no right of access under the Right
to Know Act, 65 P.S. §§ 66.1 et seq. Each such approval shall appoint the time
and hour limits for the inspection, which shall not exceed 2 hours in any 1
day, per applicant. All hours shall be within the regular business hours of the
Borough office.
   4.   The Council members of the Committee above mentioned shall be appointed
by the President of Council. The Committee shall act within 3 days after
receipt by 1 of its members of a written application by a citizen. One member
of the Committee or the Borough Solicitor may act immediately upon the
application if the citizen shall establish that time is of essence of his or
her inquiry.
(Ord. 2-1960, 1/26/1960; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 13
Open Records Policy
§ 1-1301.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Policy is to assure compliance with Act 3 of 2008, The
Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law, as amended; to provide access to public records
of Troy Borough; to preserve the integrity of Troy Borough’s records; and to
minimize the financial impact to the residents of the Borough regarding the
resources utilized in the receipt and processing of public record requests and
the retrieval and copying of public records.
(Ord. 12-01, 3/20/2012, § 1)
§ 1-1302.   Designated Open Records Officer.
   It is the policy of the Borough to require the presence of a designated
employee when public records are examined and inspected and to charge
reasonable fees for duplication of public records of the Borough. Troy Borough
designates the Borough Manager as the Open Records Officer, responsible for
assuring compliance with the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law, in accordance with
the following guidelines:
      A.   The Borough Manager may designate certain employee(s) to process
public record requests.
      B.   The Borough Manager is responsible for minimizing, where possible,
the financial impact to the Borough regarding the resources utilized in the
receipt and processing of public record requests and the retrieval and copying
of public records.
      C.   All requests for public records of the Borough under this policy
shall be specific in identifying and describing each public record requested.
In no case shall the Borough be required to create a public record which does
not exist or to compile, maintain, format or organize a public record in a
manner in which the Borough does not currently compile, maintain, format or
organize the public record. All requests for public records shall be submitted
in writing and include the date of the request; requestor’s name, address and
telephone number; certification of United States residency; signature of
requestor; and if duplication is requested, appropriate payment.
      D.   The designated employee shall make a good faith effort to determine
whether each record requested is a public record.
      E.   The Borough shall facilitate a reasonable response to a request for
Troy Borough’s public records. In no case is the Borough expected to provide
extraordinary staff to respond to the request, but will respond in a manner
consistent with the Borough’s administrative responsibilities and consistent
with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law.
      F.   The designated employee shall respond to the requestor within 5
business days from the date of receipt of the written request. If the Borough
does not respond within 5 business days of receipt thereof, the request is
deemed denied.
      G.   The response provided by the Borough shall consist of:
         (1)   Approval for access to the public record;
         (2)   Review of the request by the designated employee; or
         (3)   Denial of access to the record requested.
      H.   If access to the public record requested is approved, the public
record shall be available for access during the regular business hours of the
Borough. The designated employee shall cooperate fully with the requester,
while also taking reasonable measures to protect Borough public records from
the possibility of theft and/or modifications. The presence of a designated
employee is required when public records are examined and inspected.
      I.   Fees for duplication of public records shall be as established by
the Commonwealth’s Office of Open Records. The Borough may, at its discretion,
waive fees.
      J.   In the event the estimated cost of fulfilling a request submitted
under this policy is expected to exceed $100, the designated employee(s) shall
obtain the expected cost in advance of fulfilling the request to avoid
unwarranted expense of Borough resources.
      K.   If the request is being reviewed, the notice provided by the Borough
shall be in writing and include the reason for the review and the expected
response date, which shall be within 30 days of the notice of review. If the
Borough does not respond within 30 days thereof, the request is deemed denied.
Review of the request is limited to situations where:
         (1)   The record requested contains information which is subject to
access, as well as information which is not subject to access that must be
redacted prior to a grant of access. The redacted information is considered a
denial as to that information;
         (2)   The record requires retrieval from a remote location;
         (3)   A timely response cannot be accomplished due to staffing
limitations;
         (4)   A legal review is necessary to determine whether the record
requested is a public record;
         (5)   The requester has failed to comply with the Borough’s policy and
procedure requirements;
         (6)   The requester refuses to pay the applicable fees; or
         (7)   The extent or nature of the request precludes a response within
the required time period.
   Upon a determination that 1 of the factors listed above applies, the Borough
shall send written notice to the requestor within 5 business days of receipt of
the request for access. The notice shall include a statement notifying the
requestor that the request for access is being reviewed, the reason for the
review, a reasonable date that a response is expected to be provided and an
estimate of applicable fees owed when the record becomes available. If the date
that a response is expected to be provided is in excess of 30 days, following
the 5 business days allowed for, the request for access shall be deemed denied
unless the requestor has agreed in writing to an extension to the date
specified in the notice. If the requestor agrees to the extension, the request
shall be deemed denied on the day following the date specified in the notice if
the agency has not provided a response by that date.
      L.   If access to the record requested is denied, the notice provided by
the Borough shall be in writing as indicated on the form attached hereto
entitled “Denial of Request to Review and/or Duplicate Troy Borough Records”.
      M.   If the request is denied or deemed denied, the requestor may file an
appeal with the Commonwealth’s Office of Open Records within 15 business days
of the mailing date of the Borough’s notice of denial, or within 15 days of a
deemed denial. The appeal shall state the grounds upon which the requestor
asserts that the record is a public record and shall address any grounds stated
by the agency for delaying or denying the request.
      N.   Within 30 days of the mailing date of the final determination of the
appeals officer, the requestor or Borough may file a petition for review or
other document as required by rule of court with the Court of Common Pleas for
Bradford County. The decision of the court shall contain findings of fact and
conclusions of law based upon the evidence as a whole. The decision shall
clearly and concisely explain the rationale for the decision. A petition for
review under this section shall stay the release of documents until a decision
is issued.
      O.   This policy shall be available for review at the Borough Office.
(Ord. 12-01, 3/20/2012, § 2)
Chapter 2
Animals
Part 1
Control of Animals, Birds and Fowl
§ 2-101.   Conditions for Keeping Rabbits, Pigeons or Fowl
§ 2-102.   Unlawful to Keep Pigs
§ 2-103.   Conditions for Keeping Certain Livestock
§ 2-104.   Applicability of Dog Law
§ 2-105.   Penalty for Violation
Part 2
Prohibiting the Keeping of Animals Making Disturbing Noises
§ 2-201.   Intent and Purpose
§ 2-202.   Noise Disturbance
§ 2-203.   Exceptions
§ 2-204.   Penalties
Part 3
Animal Defecation on Public and Private Property
§ 2-301.   Animal Defecation on Public and Private Property Restricted
§ 2-302.   Disposal of Animal Feces
§ 2-303.   Dogs Accompanying Blind or Handicapped Persons Exempted
§ 2-304.   Penalties
Part 1
Control of Animals, Birds and Fowl
§ 2-101.   Conditions for Keeping Rabbits, Pigeons or Fowl.
   No person shall keep any rabbits, fowl or pigeons anywhere in the Borough
unless the following conditions are strictly adhered to:
      A.   There shall be no violation of any provision of the Borough’s Zoning
Ordinance [Chapter 27].
      B.   The fowl, rabbits and pigeons shall at all times be confined to the
premises of the owner.
(Ord. 79-4, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 2-102.   Unlawful to Keep Pigs.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any pig anywhere in the Borough.
(Ord. 79-4, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 2-103.   Conditions for Keeping Certain Livestock.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any horse, sheep, goat, cattle or other
domestic livestock, other than pigs, in the Borough, unless the following
conditions are strictly adhered to:
      A.    There shall be no violation of the Borough’s Zoning Ordinance
[Chapter 27].
      B.   A barn, stable or similar roofed building shall be provided on the
premises for such animals and such building shall be located at least 50 feet
from any street and at least 50 feet from any inhabited dwelling. That building
shall be kept clean, with all filth accumulating in it to be removed at least
once a week and oftener if so ordered by Council.
      C.   Those animals shall not be permitted to run at large outside the
confines of the premises of their owner.
(Ord. 79-4, 3/19/1979, § 3)
§ 2-104.   Applicability of Dog Law.
   The Pennsylvania Dog Law, 3 P.S. §§ 459-101 et seq., shall apply to the
keeping of dogs in the Borough as well as to their running at large.
(Ord. 79-4, 3/19/1979, § 4)
§ 2-105.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25
nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-4, 3/19/1979, § 5; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980; and by A.O.)
Part 2
Prohibiting the Keeping of Animals Making Disturbing Noises
§ 2-201.   Intent and Purpose.
   The Borough Council of the Borough of Troy, finding that excessive levels of
sound are detrimental to the physical, mental and social well-being of the
people as well as to their comfort, living conditions, general welfare and
safety and being therefore a public health and welfare hazard, hereby declares
it to be necessary to provide for the greater control and more effective
regulation of excessive sound and the sources of excessive sound within the
Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 2-202.   Noise Disturbance.
   It shall be illegal within the Borough of Troy for any person or person to
own, possess, harbor or control any animal or bird which makes any noise
continuously and incessantly for a period of 10 minutes or makes such noise
intermittently for 1/2 hour or more to the disturbance of any person any time
of the day or night regardless of whether the animal or bird is physically
situated in or upon private property, said noise being a nuisance; provided,
that at the time the animal or bird is making such noise, no person is
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private property in or upon which
the animal or bird is situated nor is there any other legitimate cause which
justifiably provoked the animal or bird.
(A.O.)
§ 2-203.   Exceptions.
   This Part shall not be deemed to prohibit or otherwise declare unlawful any
agricultural operations protected from nuisance suits by Act No. 1982-133, 3
P.S. §§ 951 et seq.
(A.O.)
§ 2-204.   Penalties.
   Any person, film or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Part 3
Animal Defecation on Public and Private Property
§ 2-301.   Animal Defecation on Public and Private Property Restricted.
   No person having possession, custody or control of any animal shall
knowingly or negligently permit any such animal to commit any nuisance, by
defecation or urination, upon any gutter, street, driveway, alley, curb or
sidewalk in the Borough of Troy, or upon the floors or stairways of any
building or place frequented by the public or used in common by the tenants, or
upon the outside walls, walkways, driveways, alleys, curbs or stairways of any
building abutting on a public street or park, or upon the grounds of any public
park or public area, or upon any private property other than the property of
the owner of such animal.
(Ord. 06-02, –/–/2006, § 1)
§ 2-302.   Disposal of Animal Feces.
   Any person having possession, custody or control of any animal which commits
a nuisance, as described in § 2-301, in any area other than the private
property of the owner of such dog or other animal, as prohibited in §
2-301 shall be required to immediately remove any feces from such surface and
either:
      A.   Carry same away for disposal in a toilet.
      B.   Place same in a non-leaking container for deposit in a trash or
litter receptacle.
(Ord. 06-02, –/–/2006, § 2)
§ 2-303.   Dogs Accompanying Blind or Handicapped Persons Exempted.
   The provisions of §§
2-301 and
2-302 hereof shall not apply to a guide dog accompanying any blind person, or
to a dog used to assist any other physically handicapped person.
(Ord. 06-02, –/–/2006, § 3)
§ 2-304.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 06-02, –/–/2006, § 4, as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 3
[Reserved]
Chapter 4
Buildings
Part 1
Dangerous Structures
§ 4-101.   Investigation and Examination
§ 4-102.   Notice to Repair or Remove Dangerous Structures
§ 4-103.   Service of Notice
§ 4-104.   Penalty
§ 4-105.   Abatement by Borough
Part 2
Demolition
§ 4-201.   Liability Insurance
§ 4-202.   Penalty
Part 3
Numbering of Houses and Buildings
§ 4-301.   Building Numbering System Adopted
§ 4-302.   Responsibility for Numbering Buildings
§ 4-303.   Requirements for Numbers
§ 4-304.   Numbering System
§ 4-305.   Penalties
Part 1
Dangerous Structures
§ 4-101.   Investigation and Examination.
   Whenever it shall be reported to the Council, or President thereof, that any
structure, completed or in process of construction, or any portion thereof, is
in a dangerous condition, Council shall immediately cause an investigation and
examina tion to be made of such structure. If such investigation or examination
indicates such structure to be dangerous in any respect, the parties appointed
to investigate shall report in writing to the Council, specifying the exact
condition of such structure setting forth in such report whether and in what
respect they consider such structure to be dangerous and, if so, whether such
structure is capable of being properly repaired or whether it should be removed
as a dangerous structure.
(Ord. 4-1970, 2/23/1970, § 1)
§ 4-102.   Notice to Repair or Remove Dangerous Structures.
   If any structure is reported as provided in § 4-101 to be in a dangerous
condition, Council shall forthwith cause written notice to be served upon the
owner of the structure. The notice shall require the owner of the structure to
commence the repair or removal within 30 days of the notice and shall require
the owner to complete the repair or removal within 120 days of the notice;
provided, in any case where the notice prescribes the repair of any structure,
the owner shall have the option to remove the structure instead of making
repairs to it, within the time limit.
(Ord. 4-1970, 2/23/1970, § 2; as amended by Ord. 95-1, 11/20/1995, § 1)
§ 4-103.   Service of Notice.
   The notice required by § 4-102 of this Part shall be served personally upon
the owner of a structure if such owner resides in the Borough or upon the agent
of such owner if such agent has a residence or place of business within the
Borough. If neither the owner or the agent thereof can be served within the
Borough as hereby provided, such notice shall be sent to the owner of such
structure by registered mail, at the last known address.
(Ord. 4-1970, 2/23/1970, § 3)
§ 4-104.   Penalty.
   If the owner of any dangerous structure, to whom or which a notice to repair
or remove such structure shall be sent under the provisions of this Part, fails
to commence or complete such repair or removal within the time limit prescribed
by such notice he or she shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4-1970, 2/23/1970, § ; as amended by A.O.)
§ 4-105.   Abatement by the Borough.
   If the owner of any dangerous structure to whom or which a notice to repair
or to remove such structure shall be sent under the provisions of this Part
fails to commence or to complete such repair or removal within the time limit
prescribed by such notice, the Council shall be empowered to cause such work or
repair or removal to be commenced and/or completed by the Borough and the cost
and expense thereof, with a penalty of 10 percent, shall be collected from the
owner of such structure in a manner provided by law; provided, the recovery of
such cost and expense, together with the penalty, may be in addition to the
penalty imposed as provided in § 4-104 of this Part. In addition, to avoid a
multiplicity of legal action, Council may empower the Solicitor to proceed in
equity for abatement of said nuisance.
(Ord. 4-1970, 2/23/1970, § 5)
Part 2
Demolition
§ 4-201.   Liability Insurance.
   Hereafter, wherever any person, corporation, company, partnership or other
operating agency shall undertake to dismantle or demolish any structure in the
Borough of Troy and in so doing shall occupy for longer or shorter periods,
from time to time, portions of the public ways, streets or sidewalks, such
person or agencies shall first apply to the Borough Manager for a permit and
shall at that time before any permit shall be granted, produce to the Police
Department of Troy Borough satisfactory evidence of public liability insurance
in force covering the intended activities with liability limits of $500,000
combined single limit coverage.
(Ord. 7-1970, 5/4/1970, § 1)
§ 4-202.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall operate as provided in § 4-201 or
violate any provision of this Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced
to a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7-1970, 5/4/1970, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
Part 3
Numbering of Houses and Buildings
§ 4-301.   Building Numbering System Adopted.
   The survey, plan and system for the numbering of houses and buildings
prepared by the Borough Engineer, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a
part hereof, is hereby approved and adopted. 1
(A.O.)
 
Notes
1    1Editor’s Note: Survey plan and system are on file at the Borough office.
§ 4-302.   Responsibility for Numbering Buildings.
   On and after the passage and approval of this Part, it shall be the duty of
each and every owner, trustee, lessee, agent and occupant of each and every
house, building or other structure in the Borough to cause the same to be
numbered in accordance with this Part and the system and plan hereby adopted
and approved.
(A.O.)
§ 4-303.   Requirements for Numbers.
   The number shall be placed in a conspicuous place on or over each front
foot, on the front transom bar, front transom glass or front show window, over
or on either side of the entrance, the same number to be of paint, metal or
enamel and at least 3 inches in height, the color of the numbers to be in
contrast to the immediate background and shall be so placed as to be in full
view from the opposite side of the street.
(A.O.)
§ 4-304.   Numbering System.
   Canton Street shall be the dividing line between east and west and Main
Street shall be the dividing line between north and south. The initial point in
numbering houses on streets extending north and south shall be at Main Street
and the initial point in numbering houses on streets running east and west
shall be at Canton Street. North of Main Street the numbers shall commence at 1
and extend northward consecutively and south of Main Street the numbers shall
commence at 101 and shall extend southward consecutively and west of Canton
Street the numbers shall commence at 1 and shall extend westward consecutively,
in accordance with the attached plan. All even numbers shall be on the north
and west side of the streets and all odd numbers shall be on the south and east
side of the streets. The houses on short or intermediate streets shall be
numbered uniformly with the main streets paralleling the short or intermediate
streets, whether or not the short or intermediate streets begin at the initial
point.
(A.O.)
§ 4-305.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Chapter 5
Code Enforcement
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
§ 5-101.   Election to Enforce Pennsylvania Construction Code
§ 5-102.   Uniform Construction Code Adopted
§ 5-103.   Penalty
§ 5-104.   Administration and Enforcement
§ 5-105.   Board of Appeals
§ 5-106.   Savings and Repeals
§ 5-107.   Fees
§ 5-108.   Effective Date
Part 2
Assessment Permits
§ 5-201.   Statement of Intent
§ 5-202.   Applicability
§ 5-203.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
§ 5-203.   Municipal Liability
§ 5-204.   Application Procedures
§ 5-205.   Issuance of Assessment Permit
§ 5-206.   Start of Construction
§ 5-207.   Fees
§ 5-208.   Penalties
§ 5-209.   Specific Definitions
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
§ 5-101.   Election to Enforce Pennsylvania Construction Code.
   Troy Borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, as amended from time to
time, and its regulations.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 1)
§ 5-102.   Uniform Construction Code Adopted.
   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 401 through
405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the municipal building code of this Municipality.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 2)
§ 5-103.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of the
Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 and costs of prosecution, which
shall include any attorney’s fees incurred by Troy Borough in such prosecution,
or in default of payment, to imprison ment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
Each day a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Enforcement shall be by action brought before a District Justice in
the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, or through an action in equity
brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Bradford County.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 3)
§ 5-104.   Administration and Enforcement.
   Administration and enforcement of the Code within this Municipality shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the governing body of
this Municipality from time to time by Resolution:
      A.   By the designation of an employee of the Municipality to serve as
the municipal code official to act on behalf of the Municipality.
      B.   By the retention of 1 or more construction code officials or
certified third-party agency(ies) to act on behalf of the Municipality.
      C.   By agreement with 1 or more other municipalities for the joint
administra tion and enforcement of this Act through an intermunicipal
agreement;
      D.   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administra tion and enforcement of this Act on behalf of this Municipality.
      E.   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than 1-family or 2-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous
use structures.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 4)
§ 5-105.   Board of Appeals.
   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the governing body
of this Municipality in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein. If at anytime enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with 1 or more other municipalities, the Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 5)
§ 5-106.   Savings and Repeals.
   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were adopted by
this Municipality on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or exceed the
requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect until such
time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum requirements of the
Code, as amended from time to time.
      A.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this Part and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the Code.
      B.   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of this
Municipality not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 6)
§ 5-107.   Fees.
   Fees assessable by Troy Borough and any third party agency or municipality
participating with this municipality in a joint enforcement program shall be
established by the governing body by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 7)
§ 5-108.   Effective Date.
   This Part shall be effective July 8, 2004.
(Ord. 04-01, 6/15/2004, § 8)
Part 2
Assessment Permits
§ 5-201.   Statement of Intent.
   The intent of this Part is to inform the municipality on construction of
structures that do not require permits under the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code (hereinafter UCC) [Part 1] for assessment purposes.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 1.0)
§ 5-202.   Applicability.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, the construction, renovation or repair of
any agricultural building, manufactured housing, historical building, accessory
or miscellaneous-use structure less than 500 square feet which is non-habitable
and limited to 1 story anywhere within the municipality unless an approved
assessment permit has been obtained from the municipality.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 1.1)
§ 5-203.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   This Part supersedes any provisions currently in effect. However, any
underlying ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that
those provisions are more respective.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 1.2)
§ 5-204.   Municipal Liability.
   This Part shall not create liability on the part of the municipality or any
officer or employee thereof for any damages, that result from reliance on this
Part or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 1.4)
§ 5-205.   Application Procedures.
   Application for such an assessment permit shall be made in writing to the
Borough Council, on such forms as may be approved by the Borough Council by
resolution from time to time hereafter. Such application shall contain at least
the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.   Site location.
      E.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost.
      F.   A plan of the site showing the site and location of the proposed
construc tion as well as any existing buildings or structures, with setback
dimensions.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 2.0)
§ 5-206.   Issuance of Assessment Permit.
   1.   The Borough Council shall issue an assessment permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes or ordinances.
   2.   After the issuance of an assessment permit, no changes of any kind
shall be made to the application, permit, or any of the plans, specifications
or other documents submitted with the application without the written consent
or approval of the municipality.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 2.1)
§ 5-207.   Start of Construction.
   Work on the proposed construction shall begin within 6 months from the date
of issuance of the assessment permit. The proposed construction shall be
completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the assessment permit.
Construction shall be considered to have started with the first placement of
permanent construction to the site, such as pouring of slabs or footings or any
work beyond the stage of excavation. For a structure without a basement or
poured footings the start of construction includes the first permanent framing
or assembly of the structure of any part thereof on its pilings or foundation
or the affixing of any prefabricated structure to its permanent site. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, land clearing, grading, filing,
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations, erection of temporary
forms, or installation of piling under proposed subsurface footings.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 2.2)
§ 5-208.   Fees.
   A schedule of fees for the issuance of permits shall be established by
resolution passed by the Borough Council from time to time.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 2.3)
§ 5-209.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 3.0 as amended by A.O.)
§ 5-210.   Specific Definitions.
   Agricultural building–a structure utilized to store farm implements, hay,
feed, grain or other agricultural or horticultural products or to house
poultry, livestock or other farm animals. The term shall not include habitable
space or spaces in which agricultural products are processed, treated or
packaged and shall not be construed to mean a place of occupancy by the general
public.
   Construction–the construction or relocation of a building or structure.
   Manufactured housing–under § 901(a) of the Act, 35 P.S. § 7210.901 (a),
housing which bears a label as required by and referenced in the Manufactured
Housing Act, 35 P.S. §§ 1656.1 et seq., certifying that it conforms to federal
construction and safety standards adopted under the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq.
   Structure–anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground including, but not limited to, buildings, sheds and other similar items.
(Ord. 04-02, 6/15/2004, § 4.1)
Chapter 6
Conduct
Part 1
Curfew
§ 6-101.   Definition of Terms
§ 6-102.   Curfew Established for Minors
§ 6-103.   Unlawful for Parent
Part 2
Loitering
§ 6-201.   Loitering in or about Specific Facilities
§ 6-202.   Definitions
§ 6-203.   Group Loitering
§ 6-204.   Loitering Prohibited
§ 6-205.   Violations and Penalties
Part 3
Alcoholic Beverages
§ 6-301.   Prohibition
§ 6-302.   Penalties
Part 4
Discharge of Firearms
§ 6-401.   Discharge of Firearms Prohibited
§ 6-402.   Use of Air Rifles, Bow and Arrows or Similar Devices Restricted
§ 6-403.   Exceptions
§ 6-404.   Penalties for Violation
Part 5
Public Drunkenness
§ 6-501.   Public Drunkenness Prohibited
§ 6-502.   Penalty for Violation
Part 6
Protection of Public Property
§ 6-601.   Definition and Interpretation
§ 6-602.   Tampering With Public Property on Streets, Alleys or Public Ground
Prohibited
§ 6-603.   Tampering With Stakes, Posts and Monuments Prohibited
§ 6-604.   Tampering With Warning Lamps, Signs or Barricades Prohibited
§ 6-605.   Removal of Material from Streets, Alleys or Public Grounds
Prohibited
§ 6-606.   Deposit of Harmful Substances on Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks or
Public Grounds Prohibited
§ 6-607.   Exceptions
§ 6-608.   Penalties
Part 7
Throwing Objects onto Streets
§ 6-701.   Prohibited Acts
§ 6-702.   Penalties
Part 8
Disorderly Conduct
§ 6-801.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited
§ 6-802.   Penalty for Violation
Part 9
Obscenity
§ 6-901.   Offenses Defined
§ 6-902.   General Definitions
§ 6-903.   Dissemination to Minors
§ 6-904.   Admitting Minor to Show
§ 6-905.   Specific Definitions
§ 6-906.   Requiring Sale as Condition of Doing Business
§ 6-907.   Exemptions
§ 6-908.   Fines and Penalties
Part 1
Curfew
§ 6-101.   Definition of Terms.
   Curfew period–the entire period between 11:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m., except on
Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00 midnight to 5:30 a.m.
   Minor–a person under the age of 18 years, whether a resident or nonresident
of the Borough, unmarried and not emancipated.
   Parent–the father, the mother or the guardian or other legal custodian of a
minor.
   Public place–any public street, sidewalk, highway, road, alley, park,
playground, public building, vacant lot or location where the public commonly
has access to.
   Remain–to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon.
(Ord. 79-8, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 6-102.   Curfew Established for Minors.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in or upon any public place in
the Borough unless accompanied by his or her parent or on an errand or business
directed by the minor’s parent, or in connection with the minor’s employment.
(Ord. 79-8, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 6-103.   Unlawful for Parent.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent to allow or permit a minor under his or
her custody to violate any provision of § 6-102 and any parent or minor who
shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $1,000 plus costs
and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 79-8, 3/19/1979, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Loitering
§ 6-201.   Lingering in or about Specific Facilities.
   Under circumstances falling short of rendering such person(s) an implied
invitee or licensee, it shall be unlawful for any person(s) to linger in or
about and for a purpose unconnected with lawful activity related to facilities
of a restricted nature, including a store, laundromat, bank or other financial
institution, school, post office, public phone, barroom or any other place of
business; also, Troy Borough Hall or Troy Police Station, any place of public
worship or any parking area serving such facility of a restricted public
nature. Such specific places shall be deemed to include, to the fullest extent
permitted as reasonable under all circumstances, any point within 100 feet of
such place or facility, for the effective dispelling of alarm for safety of
person(s) or property, prevention or disruption of activities in which
facilities specialize and minimizing of trespassing or trespassing ab initio.
The provisions of this section shall not be restricted only to the hours of
said facilities operation, but shall apply at all times.
(Ord. 85-1, 3/18/1985)
§ 6-202.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning
given to them in this Part:
   Barroom–any facility or business licensed by the state to serve and/or sell
alcoholic beverages.
   Public phone–any pay telephone accessible to the general public.
(Ord. 85-1, 3/18/1985)
§ 6-203.   Group Loitering.
   On any public street, including sidewalks thereof (and walls, steps or
points immediately adjacent thereto, so as to minimize evasion), it shall be
unlawful for 3 or more persons as a group, or as interacting individuals or
groups, to linger for more than 10 minutes under circumstances that tend to
annoy and alarm persons in that vicinity, or warrant alarm for the safety of
property in that vicinity.
(Ord. 85-1, 3/18/1985)
§ 6-204.   Loitering Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in circumstances of
time, place or manner not usual for law abiding individuals, or which
circumstances reasonable warrant alarm for the safety or security of persons or
property in the vicinity of such actor. Among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether such alarm is reasonably warranted is that
the actor takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer, that he or she
refuses to identify himself or herself or that he or she manifestly endeavors
to conceal himself or herself or any object.
(Ord. 85-1, 3/18/1985)
§ 6-205.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 85-1, 3/18/1985; as amended by A.O.)
Part 3
Alcoholic Beverages
§ 6-301.   Prohibition.
   1.   No person shall transport or possess on his or her person or in a motor
vehicle any beer, wine or alcoholic beverages in an open container in or upon
the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public ways of the Borough of Troy, nor in or
upon the parking areas of private shopping centers, businesses or other
institutions under the jurisdiction of the Police Department of the Borough of
Troy.
   2.   No person shall consume or possess beer, wine or alcoholic beverages in
an open container in or upon the property of another unless that person is a
guest, licensee or invitee of the owner or occupier of the property.
(Ord. 92-4, 9/21/1992, § 1)
§ 6-302.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 92-4, 9/21/1992, § 1; as amended by A.O.)
Part 4
Discharge of Firearms
§ 6-401.   Discharge of Firearms Prohibited.
   Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in
§
6-403 of this Part, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire or
discharge any gun or other firearm within the Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 79-10, 3/19/1979; as revised by A.O.)
§ 6-402.   Use of Air Rifles, Bow and Arrows or Similar Devices Restricted.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, bow and arrow or similar device, or any
implement that is not a firearm but which impels a pellet of any kind with a
force that can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm, at any place within
the Borough, except as provided in § 6-403 of this Part, and except on a target
range which is properly constructed to trap or stop the projectile as
ascertained by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 79-10, 3/19/1979; as revised by A.O.)
§ 6-403.   Exceptions.
   This Part shall not apply to:
      A.    Persons licensed to hunt in this Commonwealth while actually
engaged in hunting where permitted under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
      B.   Members of any organization incorporated under laws of this Common
wealth engaged in target shooting upon the grounds or property belonging to or
under the control of such organization.
      C.   Any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties.
(Ord. 79-10, 3/19/1979; as revised by A.O.)
§ 6-404.   Penalties for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-10, 3/19/1979; as revised by A.O.)
Part 5
Public Drunkenness
§ 6-501.   Public Drunkenness Prohibited.
   1.   Public drunkenness, as defined in § 5505 of the Crimes Code, 18
Pa.C.S.A., and in the conduct described herein, is hereby prohibited within the
Borough of Troy.
   2.   A person is guilty of public drunkenness if that person appears in any
public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol to the degree that they
may endanger themselves or other person or property or annoy persons in the
vicinity.
   3.   As used in this section, the word “public” means affecting or likely to
affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group has
access. Among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks, transport
facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or
amusement, any neighborhood or any premises which are open to the public.
(A.O.)
§ 6-502.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Part 6
Protection of Public Property
§ 6-601.   Definition and Interpretation.
   As used in this Part, the term “person” shall include any individual,
corporation, partnership, association, firm or other legal entity. The singular
shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(A.O.)
§ 6-602.   Tampering with Public Property on Streets, Alleys or Public Ground
Prohibited.
   No person shall destroy, injure, tamper with or deface any public property
of the Borough or any grass, walk, lamp, ornamental work, building or street
light on or in any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds in the
Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 6-603.   Tampering with Stakes, Posts and Monuments Prohibited.
   No person shall in any manner interfere or meddle with or pull, drive,
change, alter or destroy any stake, post, monument or other marking, made,
placed or set, or hereafter made, placed or set or caused to be done by the
authorities of the Borough, to evidence the location, elevation, line, grade,
corner or angle of any public street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, drain or
other public work or thing.
(A.O.)
§ 6-604.   Tampering With Warning Lamps, Signs or Barricades Prohibited.
   No person shall destroy, remove, deface, obliterate or cover up any lamp,
sign or barricade erected as a warning of danger by the authorities of the
Borough or by any person doing work by permission of the authorities of the
Borough on any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or bridges in the Borough or
any public grounds of the Borough, within or without the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 6-605.   Removal of Material from Streets, Alleys or Public Grounds
Prohibited.
   No person shall take any earth, stone or other material from any street,
alley or public grounds in the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 6-606.   Deposit of Harmful Substances on Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks or
Public Grounds Prohibited.
   No person shall pour, throw or deposit any harmful or destructive substance
or matter on any street, alley, sidewalk or public grounds in the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 6-607.   Exceptions.
   This Part shall not apply to normal activities in connection with
construction, maintenance and repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public
grounds and the structures and fixtures located thereon or therein or to
incidental results of work done thereon or therein upon permit from or by
authority of the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 6-608.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Part 7
Throwing Objects onto Streets
§ 6-701.   Prohibited Acts.
   The throwing, kicking or knocking of any ball, snowballs, stones or any
other missile upon or into any of the public streets, alleys or sidewalks in
the Borough is hereby prohibited.
(A.O.)
§ 6-702.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Part 8
Disorderly Conduct
§ 6-801.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited.
   1.   Disorderly conduct, as defined in § 5503 of the Crimes Code, 18
Pa.C.S.A. § 5503, and in the conduct described herein is hereby prohibited
within the Borough of Troy. A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with
intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm or recklessly creating
a risk thereof he or she :
      A.   Engages in fighting or threatening or in violent or tumultuous
behavior.
      B.   Makes unreasonable noise.
      C.   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
      D.   Urinates or defecates on or immediately adjacent to any street,
alleyway or building in the Borough.
      E.   Urinates or defecates outdoors on private or public property if such
an act is reasonably within the public view and causes alarm, annoyance or
disgust.
   2.   Provided, as used in this section, the word “public” means affecting or
likely to affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group
has access. Among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks,
transport facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or
amusement, any neighbor hood or any premises which are open to the public.
(A.O.)
§ 6-802.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Part 9
Obscenity
§ 6-901.   Offenses Defined.
   No person, knowing the obscene character of the materials or performance
involved, shall:
   A.   Display or cause or permit the display of any obscene materials in or
on any window, showcase, newsstand, display rack, billboard, display board,
viewing screen, motion picture screen marquee or similar place in such manner
that the display is visible from any public street, highway, sidewalk,
transportation facility or other public thoroughfare.
   B.   Sell, lend, distribute, exhibit, give away or show any obscene
materials to any person 17 years of age or younger or offer to sell, lend,
distribute, exhibit or give away or show, or have in his possession with intent
to sell, lend, distribute, exhibit or give away or show any obscene materials
to any person 17 years of age or younger, or knowingly advertise any obscene
materials in any manner.
   C.   Design, copy, draw, photograph, print, utter, publish or in any manner
manufacture or prepare any obscene materials.
   D.   Write, print, publish, utter or cause to be written, printed, published
or uttered any advertisement or notice of any kind giving information, directly
or indirectly, stating or purporting to state where, how, from whom, or by what
means any obscene materials can be purchased, obtained or had.
   E.   Produce, present, or direct any obscene performance or participate in a
portion thereof that is obscene or that contributes to its obscenity.
   F.   Hire, employ, use or permit any minor child to do or assist in doing
any act or thing mentioned in this section.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-902.   General Definitions.
   As used in this part the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
given to them in this section:
   Community - For the purpose of applying the “contemporary community
standards” in this section, community means the State.
   Knowing - as used in §
6-901, knowing means having general knowledge of, or reason to know or a belief
or ground for a belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of, the
character and content of the performance or any material described in §
6-901 which is reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant.
   Materials - any literature, including any book, magazine, pamphlet,
newspaper, story paper, comic book, and any figure, visual representation, or
image including any drawing, photograph, picture or motion picture.
   Performance - any play, dance or other live exhibition performed before an
audience.
   Obscene - any material, materials or performance is "obscene" if:
      (1)   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find that the subject matter taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest;
and
      (2)   The subject matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive
way, sexual conduct of a type described in this section; and,
      (3)   The subject matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political, educational or scientific value.
   Sexual conduct - as used in §
6-902 means patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, and patently offensive
representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions and lewd
exhibitions of the genitals.
   Transportation facility - any conveyance, premises or place used for or in
connection with public passenger transportation, whether by air, rail, motor
vehicle or any other method, including aircraft, watercraft, railroad, cars,
buses, and air, boat, railroad and bus terminals and stations.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-903.   Dissemination to Minors.
   No person shall knowingly disseminate by sale, loan or otherwise, explicit
sexual materials to a minor. Explicit sexual materials, as used in this
section, means materials which are obscene or:
   A.   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body
which depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which is
harmful to minors; or,
   B.   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in §
6-903(A), or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of
sexual excitement, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which, taken as
a whole, is harmful to minors.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-904.   Admitting Minor to Show.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit for monetary
consideration to a minor or knowingly to sell to a minor an admission ticket or
pass or knowingly to admit a minor for a monetary consideration to premises
whereon there is exhibited a motion picture show or other presentation which,
in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse
and which is harmful to minors, except that the foregoing shall not apply to
any minor accompanied by his parent.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-905.   Specific Definitions.
   As used in §§
6-903 and
6-904:
   Harmful to minors - that quality of any description or representation in
whatever form of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic
abuse, when it:
      (1)   Predominately appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest
of minors; and,
      (2)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
      (3)   Is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors.
   Knowingly - having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry or both:
      (1)   The character and content of any material described herein which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      (2)   The age of the minor; provided, however, than an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   Minor - any person under the age of 17 years.
   Nudity - the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   Sadomasochistic abuse - flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   Sexual conduct - acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse, or
physical contact with a person's clothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if
such person be a female, breast.
   Sexual excitement - the condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-906.   Requiring Sale as Condition of Doing Business.
   No person shall knowingly require any distributor or retail seller as a
condition to sale or delivery for resale or consignment of any literature,
book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story paper, paper, comic book, writing,
drawing, photograph, figure or image, or any written or printed matter, or any
article or instrument to purchase or take by consignment for purposes of sale,
resale or distribution any obscene literature, book, magazine, pamphlet,
newspaper, story paper, paper, comic book, writing, drawing, photograph, figure
or image, or any written or printed matter of an obscene nature or any article
or instrument of an obscene nature.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-907.   Exemptions.
   Nothing in §§
6-901et seq. shall apply to any recognized historical society or museum
accorded charitable status by the Federal Government, any county, city,
borough, township or town library, any public library, any library of any
school, college or university or any archive or library under the supervision
and control of the Commonwealth or a political subdivision.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
§ 6-908.   Fines and Penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
6-901et seq. shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day on which a violation of
this part shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 18-01, -/-/2018)
Chapter 7
Fire Prevention and Fire Protection
Part 1
Outdoor Fires
§ 7-101.   Burning of Material Causing Noxious Odors Prohibited
§ 7-102.   Fires on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks Prohibited
§ 7-103.   Burning Prohibited
§ 7-104.   Certain Conditions Imposed
§ 7-105.   Penalty for Violation
Part 1
Outdoor Fires
§ 7-101.   Burning of Material Causing Noxious Odors Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn upon any premises in the Borough
any garbage or material or substance causing any noxious or offensive odor.
(Ord. 79-7, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 7-102.   Fires on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set or maintain any fire upon any
street, gutter, alley or sidewalk in the Borough.
(Ord. 79-7, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 7-103.   Burning Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to set or maintain any outdoor fire,
anywhere in the Borough, at any time, except as set forth hereinafter. Outdoor
cooking and recreational fires are exempted from this provision when contained
in metal or masonry receptacles, and attended by an adult. Permitted outdoor
cooking and recreational fires shall burn only wood, natural gas, propane or
charcoal.
(Ord. 79-7, 3/19/1979, § 3; as amended by Ord. 06-01, 2/15/2006)
§ 7-104   Certain Conditions Imposed.
   Recreational and cooking fires shall be subject to the following conditions:
      A.   No fire shall be permitted to burn unattended or to smoulder.
      B.   Burners shall be covered by a screen or grating.
      C.   Debris and residue associated with outdoor burning shall be removed
from the area of the fire; shall not be allowed to become a nuisance to
neighboring properties nor attractive to rodents.
(Ord. 79-7, 3/19/1979, § 4; as amended by Ord. 06-01, 2/15/2006)
§ 7-105.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-7, 3/19/1979, § 5; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980; by Ord. 06-01,
2/15/2006, and by A.O.)
Chapter 8
Floodplains
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 8-101.   Statutory Authorization
§ 8-102.   Intent
§ 8-103.   Applicability
§ 8-104.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
§ 8-105.   Severability
§ 8-106.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
Part 2
Administration
§ 8-201.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
§ 8-202.   Permits Required
§ 8-203.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
§ 8-204.   Application Procedures and Requirements
§ 8-205.   Review by County Conservation District
§ 8-206.   Review of Application by Others
§ 8-207.   Changes
§ 8-208.   Placards
§ 8-209.   Start of Construction
§ 8-210.   Enforcement
§ 8-211.   Appeals
Part 3
Identification of Floodplain Areas
§ 8-301.   Identification
§ 8-302.   Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain Areas
§ 8-303.   Changes in Identification of Area
§ 8-304.   Boundary Disputes
§ 8-305.   Jurisdictional Boundary Changes
Part 4
General Technical Requirements
§ 8-401.   General
§ 8-402.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements
§ 8-403.   Design and Construction Standards
§ 8-404.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life
§ 8-405.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions
§ 8-406.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
§ 8-407.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles
Part 5
Activities Requiring Special Permits
§ 8-501.   General
§ 8-502.   Application Requirements for Special Permits
§ 8-503.   Application Review Procedures
§ 8-504.   Special Technical Requirements
Part 6
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
§ 8-601.   Existing Structures
§ 8-602.   Improvements
Part 7
Variances
§ 8-701.   General
§ 8-702.   Variance Procedures and Conditions
Part 8
Definitions
§ 8-801.   General
§ 8-802.   Specific Definitions
Part 9
Enactment
§ 8-901.   Adoption
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 8-101.   Statutory Authorization.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act of 1978, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors of Troy Borough, Bradford
County, Pennsylvania does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, Art. I)
§ 8-102.   Intent.
   The intent of this Chapter is to:
      A.   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community.
      B.   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
      C.   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage.
      D.   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 2.01)
§ 8-103.   Applicability.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the Borough of Troy unless a permit has been
obtained from the Floodplain Administrator. In addition, a building permit may
not be issued until such time as the County Planning Commission issues a land
development approval, when applicable.
   2.   A building permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 2.02)
§ 8-104.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   This Chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this Chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 2.03)
§ 8-105.   Severability.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this Chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this Chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 2.04)
§ 8-106.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1.   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Chapter
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on accepted
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This Chapter does not imply that areas outside any
identified floodplain areas or that land uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages.
   2.   This Chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 2.05)
Part 2
Administration
§ 8-201.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator.
   1.   The Borough Council shall each year appoint an individual and/or third
party agency to administer and enforce this Chapter and who shall be referred
to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   2.   A.   The Floodplain Administrator may:
         (1)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations.
         (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors and
other employees.
         (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
      B.   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   3.   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain
Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the President of Borough Council.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.01)
§ 8-202.   Permits Required.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the Borough.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.02)
§ 8-203.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   1.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   2.   A.   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
govern ment permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and
the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be issued
until this determination has been made.
      B.   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
develop ment/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of
repairs to the subject building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   3.   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   4.   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   5.   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Borough Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   6.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated with
the requirements of this Chapter including, but not limited to, permitting,
inspection and enforcement.
   7.   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa.Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.03)
§ 8-204.   Application Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the Borough. Such application
shall contain the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor, along with license number.
      D.   Site location including address.
      E.   Listing of other permits required.
      F.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate.
      G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances.
      B.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      C.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      D.   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement.
      E.   Building materials are flood-resistant.
      F.   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used.
      G.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   3.   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      A.   A completed permit application form.
      B.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of 1
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale and date.
         (2)   A location map showing the vicinity in which the proposed
activity or development is to be located within the Borough.
         (3)   Topographic contour lines, if available.
         (4)   All property and lot lines including dimensions and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet.
         (5)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development.
         (6)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways.
         (7)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      C.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (1)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
         (2)   The elevation of the base flood.
         (3)   Detailed architectural or engineering drawings including
building size, floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate.
         (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing mea
sures.
         (5)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
         (6)   Soil types.
         (7)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa.Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
      D.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood.
         (2)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations.
         (3)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (see §
8-302.) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will
not increase the base flood elevation more than 1 foot at any point.
         (4)   (a)   A document, certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect, which states that the proposed construction or
development has been adequately designed to withstand the pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces associated with the base flood.
            (b)   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of flood proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (5)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
8-403 subsection .6, Storage, and §
8-404, Development Which May Endanger Human Life, including:
            (a)   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
8-403 subsection .6 and 8-404 which are intended to be used, produced, stored
or otherwise maintained on site.
            (b)   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
8-404 during a base flood.
         (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development”.
         (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   4.   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.04)
§ 8-205.   Review by County Conservation District.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.05)
§ 8-206.   Review of Application by Others.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., planning commission, municipal engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.06)
§ 8-207.   Changes.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.07)
§ 8-208.   Placards.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.08)
§ 8-209.   Start of Construction.
   1.   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within 180
days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months after
the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The actual
start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   2.   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted
by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.09)
§ 8-210.   Enforcement.
   1.   Notices. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
municipal representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this Chapter, or
of any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice
shall:
      A.   Be in writing.
      B.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
      C.   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires.
      D.   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state.
      E.   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this Chapter or who fails or refuses to comply
with any notice, order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any
other authorized employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a summary
offense and upon conviction shall pay a fine to the Borough, of not less than
$25 nor more than $300 plus costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall be a new and separate violation. In addition to the
above penalties all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in
equity for the proper enforcement of this Chapter. The imposition of a fine or
penalty for any violation of, or noncompliance with, this Chapter shall not
excuse the violation or noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations and
noncompliance within a reasonable time. Any development initiated or any
structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or
relocated, in noncompliance with this Chapter may be declared by the Borough
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.10)
§ 8-211.   Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this Chapter,
may appeal to the Court of Common Pleas. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Court of Common Pleas shall set a time
and place, within not less than 10 or not more than 30 days, for the purpose of
considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will
be considered shall be given to all parties.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court of Common Pleas may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state
including the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et
seq.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 3.11)
Part 3
Identification of Floodplain Areas
§ 8-301.   Identification.
   1.   The identified floodplain area shall be:
      A.   Any areas of Troy Borough, classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated October 76, 2014 and issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study.
      B.   Any community identified flood hazard areas.
   2.   When preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Insurance Study
have been provided by FEMA:
      A.   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA, the
preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and shall replace all flood hazard
data previously provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering these
regulations.
      B.   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall be required only where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas were determined or where the preliminary
base flood elevations or floodway areas exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided by FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   3.   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by Troy Borough and declared to be a part of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 4.01)
§ 8-302.   Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain Areas.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
      A.   The Floodway Area/District shall be those areas identified as
Floodway on the FIRM as well as those floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those special
floodplain areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS. The floodway
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than 1 foot at any point.
         (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
         (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
      B.   The AE Area/District without floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and
for which base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no floodway
has been delineated.
         (1)   In AE Area/District without floodway, no new development shall
be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that the cumulative effect of all
past and projected development will not increase the BFE by more than 1 foot.
         (2)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than 1 foot at any point.
      C.   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1-
percent annual chance flood elevations have been provided. For these areas,
elevation and floodway information from other federal, state or other
acceptable source shall be used when available. Where other acceptable
information is not available, the elevation shall be determined by using the
elevation of a point on the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is
nearest the construction site.
         (2)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant
to determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
municipality.
      D.   The Shallow Flooding Area/District shall be those areas identified
as Zones AO and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to
inundation by 1-percent-annual-chance shallow flooding where average depths are
between 1 and 3 feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be established
to guide floodwaters around and away from structures on slopes.
      E.   Community identified flood hazard areas shall be those areas where
the Borough has identified local flood hazard or ponding areas, as delineated
and adopted on a “Local Flood Hazard Map” using best available topographic data
and locally derived information on such as flood of record, historic high water
marks, soils or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 4.02)
§ 8-303.   Changes in Identification of Area.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Board of
Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable,
but not later than 6 months after the date such information becomes available;
a community shall notify the FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or
scientific data.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 4.03)
§ 8-304.   Boundary Disputes.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Bradford County Planning Commission
and any party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the
Borough Council. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 4.04)
§ 8-305.   Jurisdictional Boundary Changes.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. part 60.3.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 4.05)
Part 4
General Technical Requirements
§ 8-401.   General.
   1.   Alteration or Relocation of Watercourse.
      A.   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      B.   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not reduce or
impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      C.   In addition, the FEMA and Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   2.   Technical or Scientific Data. Technical or scientific data shall be
submitted by the applicant (with a copy provided to the Borough) to FEMA for a
letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon as practicable but within 6 months of any
new construction, development or other activity resulting in changes in the
BFE. The situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR)
are required are:
      A.   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway.
      B.   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than 1 foot in the base
flood elevation.
      C.   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited to
installing culverts and bridges).
   3.   New construction, development, uses or activities. Any new
construction, development, uses or activities allowed within any identified
floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the provisions
contained in this Chapter and any other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations.
   4.   Within any identified floodplain area. Within any identified floodplain
area (see §
8-302), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.01)
§ 8-402.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements.
   1.   Residential Structures.
      A.   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      B.   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
8-302, subsection .3.B(2).
      C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      D.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa.Code Chapters 401-405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   2.   Nonresidential Structures.
      A.   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (1)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
         (2)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      B.   In A Zones, where no base flood elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with § 8-302,
subsection .3.
      C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      D.   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight below
the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with the W1
or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication entitled
Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (June
1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent standard. All plans
and specifications for such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a statement
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect which states that
the proposed design and methods of construction are in confor mance with the
above referenced standards.
      E.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa.Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   3.   Space Below the Lowest Floor.
      A.   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term “fully
enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
      B.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of 2 openings having a net total area of not less than
1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   4.   Historic Structures. See § 8-802 for requirements for the substantial
improvement of any historic structures.
   5.   Accessory Structures. Structures accessory to a principal building need
not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a minimum,
with the following requirements.
      A.   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      B.   Floor area shall not exceed 200 square feet.
      C.   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      D.   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruc tion to the flow of flood waters.
      E.   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      F.   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
      G.   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      H.   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of 2 openings having a net total area of not less than
1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.02)
§ 8-403.   Design and Construction Standards.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   Fill. If fill is used it shall:
         (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from
all points.
         (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted.
         (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and
resistance to erosion, scouring or settling.
         (4)   Be no steeper than 1 vertical to 2 horizontal, feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator.
         (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
         (6)   Unless approved by the appropriate authorized agencies and
Canton Township, no fill shall be placed within 50 feet of the edge of any
waterway.
      B.   Drainage Facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
      C.   Water and Sanitary Sewer Facilities and Systems.
         (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer
facilities and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
         (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to
prevent the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
         (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
         (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
      D.   Other Utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical
and telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and
constructed to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
      E.   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than 1 foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
      F.   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
8-404, Development Which May Endanger Human Life, shall be stored at or above
the regulatory flood elevation or flood proofed to the maximum extent possible.
      G.   Placement of Buildings and Structures.
         (1)   All buildings and structures shall be designed, located and con
structed so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall
be designed to have a minimum effect upon the flow and height of flood water.
         (2)   The following shall not be placed or caused to be placed in
identified floodprone areas: fences, except 2-wire fences, other structures or
other matter which may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of
water or that will catch or collect debris carried by such water or that is
placed where the natural flow of the stream or flood waters would carry the
same downstream to the damage or detriment of either public or private property
adjacent to the floodprone areas.
         (3)   Unless approved by the appropriate authorized agencies and the
Borough, no building or structure shall be placed within 50 feet of the edge of
any waterway.
      H.   Anchoring.
         (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in
accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement.
         (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
      I.   Floors, Walls and Ceilings.
         (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring,
perpendicu lar to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the
building.
         (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
         (3)   All finished flooring below an elevation of 1 foot above the
established 100-year flood elevation shall be made of materials which are
stable and resistant to water damage resulting from submersion.
         (4)   All carpeting or carpet cushions employed as a finished flooring
surface below an elevation of 1 foot above the established 100-year flood
elevation shall be made of materials which are resistant to water damage
resulting from submersion.
         (5)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and
will withstand inundation.
         (6)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
      J.   Paints and Adhesives.
         (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
         (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
         (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used
at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
      K.   Electrical Components.
         (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least 3 feet above
the base flood elevation.
         (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall
be dropped from above.
      L.   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
      M.   Fuel Supply Systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be
designed to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be
made for the drainage of these systems in the event that flood water
infiltration occurs.
      N.   Uniform Construction Code Coordination. The standards and specifica
tions contained 34 Pa.Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, and not
limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other sections
and subsections of this Chapter, to the extent that they are more restrictive
and supplement the requirements of this Chapter.
         (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402, and Appendix G.
         (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.03)
§ 8-404.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, and the
regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development as
required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which:
      A.   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances.
      B.   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises.
      C.   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances; shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials
and substances are considered dangerous to human life:
         (1)   Acetone;
         (2)   Ammonia;
         (3)   Benzene;
         (4)   Calcium carbide;
         (5)   Carbon disulfide;
         (6)   Celluloid;
         (7)   Chlorine;
         (8)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (9)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (10)   Magnesium;
         (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (13)   Phosphorus;
         (14)   Potassium;
         (15)   Sodium;
         (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   2.   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
subsection .1 above shall be prohibited.
   3.   Within any identified floodplain area, any new or substantially
improved structure of the kind described in subsection .1 above shall be
prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of
any watercourse.
   4.   A.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved structure of the kind described in subsection .1 above
shall be:
         (1)   Elevated, or in the case of a nonresidential structure elevated
or designed, and constructed to remain completely dry up to at least 1-1/2 feet
above base flood elevation.
         (2)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      B.   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.04)
§ 8-405.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least 5 acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified floodplain
areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.05)
§ 8-406.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes.
   1.   Within any identified floodplain areas, manufactured homes shall be
prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of
any watercourse.
   2.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all manufactured
homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      A.   Placed on a permanent foundation.
      B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least 1-1/2 feet above base flood elevation.
      C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   3.   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with the
manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer. Where
the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34
Pa.Code Chapters 401 through 405 shall apply.
   4.   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.Code,
as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.06)
§ 8-407.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
      A.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days.
      B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      C.   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
8-406.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 5.07)
Part 5
Activities Requiring Special Permits
§ 8-501.   General.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Flood Plain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following
activities shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area unless a
special permit has been issued by the Borough:
      A.   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction enlargement or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
         (1)   Hospitals.
         (2)   Nursing homes.
         (3)   Jails or prisons.
      B.   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision. Where
permitted within any identified floodplain area all manufactured homes and
additions thereto shall be:
         (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation.
         (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is 1-
1/2 feet or more above the elevation of the100-year flood.
         (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 6.01)
§ 8-502.   Application Requirements for Special Permits.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide 5 copies of the following
items:
      A.   A written request including a completed permit application form.
      B.   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located.
      C.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of 1
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale and date.
         (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD)
of 1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of 2 feet.
         (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet.
         (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other accessways,
and parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations.
         (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development.
         (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and
spot elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning
the flow of water including direction and velocities.
         (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities
and any other improvements.
         (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
      D.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate.
         (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor.
         (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood.
         (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing mea
sures.
         (5)   Cross section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths.
         (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades.
         (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems, and any other utilities and facilities.
      E.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents.
         (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect
or landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to protect against damage from the base flood.
         (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life.
         (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
descrip tion of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows.
         (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
descrip tion of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows.
         (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development.
         (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to imple ment and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
         (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a
permit for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection
under § 302 of Act 1978-166.
         (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
         (10)   Any other information which the Borough considers necessary for
adequate review of the application.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 6.02)
§ 8-503.   Application Review Procedures.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the Borough the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of Part 2.
      A.   Within 3 working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the Bradford County Planning Commission by registered or certified
mail for its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also
be forwarded to the Borough Council and the Borough’s engineer for review and
comment.
      B.   If an application is received that is incomplete, the Borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
      C.   If the Borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
      D.   If the Borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within 5 working days after the date of approval.
      E.   Before issuing the special permit, the Borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the Borough.
      F.   If the Borough does not receive any communication from the
Department of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review
period, it may issue a special permit to the applicant.
      G. If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the Borough and the applicant, in
writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the Borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 6.03)
§ 8-504.   Special Technical Requirements.
   1.   In addition to the requirements of Part 4 of this Chapter, the
following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed development
requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of the
following requirements and those in Part 4 of this Chapter or in any other
code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
   2.   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      A.   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and constructed so that:
         (1)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE.
         (2)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least 1-1/2 feet above base flood elevation.
         (3)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      B.   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   3.   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
Borough of Troy and the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 6.04)
Part 6
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
§ 8-601.   Existing Structures.
   The provisions of this Chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
8-602 shall apply.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 7.01)
§ 8-602.   Improvements.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
      A.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
      B.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with all
other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than 1 foot
at any point.
      C.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50-percent or more of
its market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      D.   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34
Pa.Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
      E.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50-percent
of its market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest
extent possible.
      F.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 7.02)
Part 7
Variances
§ 8-701.   General.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this Chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
Borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 8.01)
§ 8-702.   Variance Procedures and Conditions.
   1.   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Borough in accordance
with the procedures contained in §
8-211 and the following:
      A.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in
the BFE.
      B.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use,
or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would, together
with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE than 1
foot at any point.
      C.   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood elevation
requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the other require
ments pertaining specifically to development regulated by special permit (or
Prohibited Activities) (Part 5) or to Development Which May Endanger Human Life
(§
8-404).
      D.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      E.   In granting any variance, the Borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
Chapter.
      F.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance.
         (2)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      G.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Borough shall consider,
at a minimum, the following:
         (1)   That there is good and sufficient cause.
         (2)   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
         (3)   That the granting of the variance will:
            (a)   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense.
            (b)   Nor create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the
public, or conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and
regulations.
      H.   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the Borough. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   2.   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the base
flood (1-percent annual chance flood).
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 8.02)
Part 8
Definitions
§ 8-801.   General.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this Chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this Chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 9.01)
§ 8-802.   Specific Definitions.
   Accessory use or structure–use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   Base flood–a flood which has a 1 percent chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year (also called the “100-year flood” or “1-percent annual chance
flood”).
   Base flood discharge–the volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   Base flood elevation (BFE)–the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1-percent or greater chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year.
   Basement–any area of the building having its floor below ground level on all
sides.
   Building–a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   Development–any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufac tured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Existing structure–a structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for
FIRMs effective before that date. “Existing structure” may also be referred to
as “existing construction.”
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision–the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Flood–a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)–the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS)–the official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   Floodplain area–a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   Floodproofing–any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   Floodway–the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   Highest adjacent grade–the highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   Historic structure–any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior.
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   Lowest floor–the lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Chapter.
   Manufactured home–a structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   Manufactured home park or subdivision– a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Minor repair–the replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   New construction–structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective start of this Chapter adopted by the community and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction
started after January 1, 1982 and before October 16, 2014 is subject to the
ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of
construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Person–an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   Post-FIRM structure–a structure for which construction or substantial
improve ment occurred after December 31,1974 or on or after the community’s
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated January 1, 1982, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   Pre-FIRM structure–a structure for which construction or substantial improve
ment occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated January 1, 1982, and, as such, would not
be required to be compliant with the regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   Recreational vehicle–a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty
truck.
      D.   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   Regulatory flood elevation–the base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated flood
height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety factor of
1-1/2 feet.
   Repetitive loss–flood related damages sustained by a structure on 2 separate
occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market
value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   Special permit–a special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improve ments to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   Special flood hazard area (SFHA)–an area in the floodplain subject to a 1
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the
FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   Start of construction–Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure–a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   Subdivision–the division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land by
any means into 2 or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than 10 acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   Substantial damage–damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50 percent or more of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement–
      A.   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of
a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This
term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” (or
“repetitive loss” when a repetitive loss provision is used) regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include any project
for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions.
      B.   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement as defined in this Chapter, must comply
with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   Uniform Construction Code (UCC)–the statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   Violation–the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4),
(c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 9.02)
Part 9
Enactment
§ 8-901.   Adoption.
   This Chapter shall be effective on October 16, 2014 and shall remain in
force until modified, amended or rescinded by the Borough.
(Ord. 14-01, 10/15/2014, § 10.01)
Chapter 9
Grading and Excavating
Part 1
Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Grading Control
§ 9-101.   Short Title
§ 9-102.   Purposes
§ 9-103.   Scope
§ 9-104.   Definitions
§ 9-105.   General Requirements
§ 9-106.   Activities Requiring Grading Permit
§ 9-107.   Activities Requiring No Grading Permit
§ 9-108.   Application for Permit
§ 9-109.   Date Required on Plan
§ 9-110.   Special Requirements
§ 9-111.   Approval
§ 9-112.   Standards for Issuance of Grading Permit
§ 9-113.   Inspection Procedures
§ 9-114.   Costs of Inspection
§ 9-115.   Fee
§ 9-116.   Penalties
§ 9-117.   Remedy for Violation
Part 1
Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Grading Control
§ 9-101.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Soil Erosion,
Sedimentation and Grading Control Ordinance,” implementing Title 25, Rules and
Regulations, Part 1, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental
Protection, Subpart C, Protection of Natural Resources, Article II, Water
Resources, Chapter 102, Erosion Control.
(A.O.)
§ 9-102.   Purposes.
   The purposes of this Part are to regulate the modification of the natural
terrain, the alteration of drainage and to provide for certain erosion and
sediment control measures within the Borough of Troy to assure and safeguard
health, safety, ecology and the general welfare in the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 9-103.   Scope.
   From and after the effective date of this Part, any subdivision and/or land
development approved under the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
[Chapter 22] or Zoning Ordinance [Chapter 27] or activity qualified under §§
9-105 and
9-106 herein shall be in conformity with this Part. In the event of a conflict
between this Part and Floodplain regulations [Chapter 8], the floodplain
regulations shall take precedence.
(A.O.)
§ 9-104.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   Alluvial soils–an agonal great group of soils, developed from transported
and relatively recently deposited material (alluvium), characterized by a weak
modification (or none) of the original material by soil-forming processes.
   Cut and/or fill–process of earthmoving by excavating part of an area and/or
using excavated material for embankments or fill areas.
   Erosion–
      (1)   The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice,
chemical or other geological agents.
      (2)   Detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind,
ice or gravity.
   Grade–
      (1)   The slope of a road, channel or natural ground.
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment or
bottom of excavation, any surface prepared for the support of construction like
paving or laying a conduit.
      (3)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment or
bottom or excavation.
   Runoff (hydraulics)–that portion of the precipitation on a drainage area or
watershed that is discharged from the area in stream channels, types include
surface runoff, groundwater runoff or seepage.
   Sediment–solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either above or
below sea level.
   Slope–degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal usually expressed
in percent or degrees.
   Soil drainage–a condition of the soil, referring to the frequency and
duration of periods when the soil is free of saturation.
   Watercourse–a natural drainage route or channel for the flow of water.
(A.O.)
§ 9-105.   General Requirements.
   Whenever the landscape is to be permanently disturbed as to either contours,
soil or slope characteristics or vegetation or any ground cover is to be
permanently removed, a plan is required showing how resulting erosion and
sediment shall be controlled. This plan shall include the following:
   A.   The amount of site alteration proposed.
   B.   Development schedule.
   C.   Erosion and sediment control practices (both temporary and permanent)
and the operation and maintenance arrangements.
(A.O.)
§ 9-106.   Activities Requiring Grading Permit.
   The following activities require a grading permit:
   A.   Modifying, disturbing, blocking, diverting or otherwise adversely
affecting the natural overland or subsurface flow of stormwater.
   B.   Construction, erection or installation of any drainage dam, ditch,
culvert, drain pipe, bridge or any other structure or obstruction affecting the
drainage of any premises.
   C.   Paving, filling, stripping, excavating, grading or regrading of any
land.
   D.   Disturbing the landscape, vegetation or any ground cover by any
proposal involving an area in excess of 5,000 square feet.
(A.O.)
§ 9-107.   Activities Requiring No Grading Permit.
   The following activities require no grading permit:
   A.   Improvements, such as erection of retaining walls, driveway paving,
minor regrading or activities on a property which do not adversely affect the
natural overland or subsurface flow of stormwater, drainage of any premises or
adversely disturb the landscape, in a gross area of up to 25 acres on any 1
property.
   B.   Farming, gardening or lawn restoration, but not including sod farming.
(A.O.)
§ 9-108.   Application for Permit.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation proposing to engage in an activity
requiring a grading permit hereunder shall apply by the submission of a plan.
   2.   The applicant should, before submitting a preliminary plan for review,
consult the Zoning Ordinance [Chapter 27], the Floodplain Ordinance [Chapter 8]
and the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [Chapter 22], which regulate
the development of land in the Borough of Troy.
   3.   A separate plan shall be required for each grading permit.
   4.   Five copies of the proposed plan, including specifications and
development schedules shall be submitted to the Building Permit Officer for a
grading permit. The Building Permit Officer shall forward 1 copy of the plan to
the Planning Commission, 1 copy to the Borough Engineer and 1 copy to the
Zoning Officer.
   5.   The plan for a grading permit shall be accompanied by a fee established
in the Borough Council’s schedule of fees and collection procedure for all
applications and other matters pertaining to the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [Chapter 22] and this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 9-109.   Data Required on Plan.
   The plan for a grading permit shall include:
   A.   A valid boundary line survey of the site on which the work is to be
performed.
   B.   A description of the features, existing and proposed, surrounding the
site which are of importance to the proposed development.
   C.   A plan of the general topography (including drainage) and soil
conditions on the site (latter available through the County Conservation
District).
   D.   The location and a description of existing and future human-made
features of importance to the proposed development (i.e., cuts and/or fills,
buildings, roads and driveways).
   E.   Plans and specifications of soil erosion and sediment control measures
in accordance with standards and specifications of the Borough and the County
Conservation District.
   F.   A development schedule indicating the anticipated starting and
completion dates of the development sequence and the time of exposure of each
area prior to the completion of effective erosion and sediment control
measures.
(A.O.)
§ 9-110.   Special Requirements.
   In addition to the requirements of §
9-109, and where deemed necessary by the Borough Engineer and the Planning
Commission, or the Borough Council, the applicant shall submit with the plan a
detailed drainage study prepared by a registered professional engineer
qualified in hydrology in the Commonwealth. This study shall include:
      A.   A plan of the property showing the location of all present and
proposed ditches, streams, pipes and other drainage structures and proposed
cuts and/or fills. In addition to showing present elevations and dimensions and
location and extent of all proposed grading and/or drainage, the plan shall
clearly indicate all woodlands, buildings, parking areas and driveways.
Further, the plan shall indicate the present and proposed sources, storage and
disposition of water being channeled through or across the premises, together
with elevations, gradients and maximum flow rates. The plan shall describe the
work to be performed and disposition of cut and/or fill, the materials to be
used and the manner or method of performance, including provisions for
protecting and maintaining existing drainage facilities whether on public or
private property. The applicant shall also supply the supporting data for the
plan as developed by the engineer.
      B.   Calculation to determine runoff, which shall be based on the Soil-
Cover Complex Method, a description of which is available from the U.S.D.A.
Soil Conservation Service as outlined in the “Erosion and Sediment Control
Handbook, Bradford County, Pennsylvania.”
         (1)   The design criteria for storm sewer piping on inlet systems
within a subdivision being developed shall be designed for a 25-year frequency
storm, culverts across roadways shall be designed for a 50-year frequency
storm, open watercourses or swales shall be designed for a 100-year frequency
storm as prescribed in accordance with the following:
            (a)   The coefficient of runoff used for all areas up-stream of any
drainage structure shall be computed on the basis of existing land use and the
projected land use descried and shown on the Borough Comprehensive Plan and
adjacent municipalities comprehensive plans, where applicable.
         (2)   The following provisions apply to the carrying and disposal of
stormwater runoff:
            (a)   All drainage facilities shall be designed to carry surface
water in such a manner as to prevent erosion or overflow.
            (b)   The applicant shall agree to the granting and recording of
easements covering the installation and maintenance of drainage facilities.
            (c)   The rate of runoff shall be no greater during and after a
100-year frequency storm when the development is completed than that which
existed before the development began and appropriate measurements of
calculations shall be provided to verify such provisions.
      C.   A soils investigation report, if load-bearing fill is proposed,
which shall consist of test borings, laboratory testings and engineering
analysis to correlate surface and subsurface conditions with the proposed
grading plan. The results of the investigation shall be presented in a report
by a registered professional soils engineer and shall include data regarding
the nature, distribution and supporting ability of existing soils and rocks on
the site, conclusions and recommendations to ensure stable soil conditions and
groundwater control as applicable. The Borough may require such supplemental
reports and data as is deemed necessary by the Borough Engineer.
Recommendations included in such reports and approved by the Borough Engineer
shall be incorporated in the plan or specifications. In addition:
         (1)   Fills toeing out on natural slopes steeper than 4 horizontal to
1 vertical shall not be made unless a report is received which, is deemed
acceptable by the Borough Engineer and approved by the Borough Council. The
report shall be made by a registered professional soils engineer certifying
that he or she has investigated the property made soils tests and that in his
or her opinion such steeper slopes will safely support the proposed fill.
         (2)   Natural and/or existing slopes exceeding 5 horizontal to 1
vertical shall be benched or continuously stepped into competent materials
prior to placing all classes of fill.
(A.O.)
§ 9-111.   Approval.
   Upon the approval of the plan by the Borough Engineer, the Building Permit
Officer shall issue the necessary grading permit.
(A.O.)
§ 9-112.   Standards for Issuance of Grading Permit.
   1.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Part or any condition of the
grading permit, the permittee is responsible for the prevention of damage to
other property or personal injury, which may be effected by the activity
requiring a grading permit.
   2.   No person, firm or corporation shall modify, fill, excavate, pave,
grade or regrade land in any manner so close to a property line as to endanger
or damage any adjoining street, alley or any other public or private property
without supporting and protecting such property from settling, cracking,
erosion, sediment, flooding or any other physical damage or personal injury
which might result.
   3.   No person, firm or corporation shall deposit or place any debris or any
other material whatsoever, or cause such to be thrown or placed, in any
drainage ditch or drainage structure in such a manner as to obstruct free flow.
   4.   No person, firm or corporation shall fail to adequately maintain, in
good operating order, any drainage facility on his or her premises. All
drainage ditches, culverts, drain pipes and drainage structures shall be kept
open and free-flowing at all times.
   5.   The owner of any property on which any work has been done pursuant to a
grading permit granted under this Part shall continuously maintain and repair
all graded surfaces and anti-erosion devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means and other protective devices, planting and ground cover,
installed or completed. The Borough is responsible for maintenance and repair
within the right-of-way of Borough roads.
   6.   All graded surfaces shall be permanently seeded, sodded and/or planted
or otherwise protected from erosion within 30 days, weather permitting, and
shall be tended and/or maintained until growth is well established. The
disturbed area and duration of exposure shall be kept to a minimum using
temporary erosion and sediment control measures immediately, as outlined in the
“Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook, Bradford County, Pennsylvania.”
   7.   All trees in an area of extreme grade change shall be protected with
suitable tree wells, unless the necessity for removal is established.
Precautions shall be taken to prevent the unnecessary removal of trees.
   8.   When required, adequate provisions shall be made for dust control
measures as are deemed acceptable by the Borough Engineer.
   9.   All plans and specification submitted for a grading permit shall
include provisions for both interim (temporary) and ultimate (permanent)
erosion and sediment control. The design, installation and maintenance of
erosion and sediment control measures shall be accomplished in accordance with
standards and specification established by the County Soil Conservation
District as adopted from standards and specifications of the United States Soil
Conservation Service and as outlined in the “Erosion and Sediment Control
Handbook, Bradford County Pennsylvania.”
      A.   Technical standards for the design and installation of erosion and
sediment control measures are on file with the Borough, office of the County
Conservation District and other governmental agency offices.
      B.   Standards and specifications adopted for the purpose of this Part
and by the County Conservation District include, but are not limited to, the
following basic conservation measures:
         (1)   Temporary cover on critical areas.
         (2)   Permanent grass and legume cover for critical areas on prepared
seedbed.
         (3)   Permanent grass and legume cover for critical areas on
unprepared seedbed.
         (4)   Sodding.
         (5)   Mulching.
         (6)   Temporary diversion.
         (7)   Permanent diversion.
         (8)   Grassed waterway or outlet.
         (9)   Grade stabilization structure.
         (10)   Debris basin.
         (11)   Drain.
         (12)   Drainage, mains or laterals.
   10.   A quality control program is critical for fills; therefore, wherever
fill material is to be used, the person, firm or corporation shall be
responsible for testing to determine its dry density as per ASTM D1556. The
density of each layer shall be not less than 95 percent of maximum density as
determined by ASTM D1557.
      A.   Inspection procedure shall follow the general procedure as stated in
§
9-113.
      B.   Compaction test reports shall be kept on file at the site and be
subject to review at all times.
      C.   Degree of compaction required shall be determined by the Borough
Engineer following the guidelines in this section.
(A.O.)
§ 9-113.   Inspection Procedures.
   1.   All inspections shall be the responsibility of the Borough Engineer,
or, in his or her absence, a qualified person acceptable to the Borough
Engineer and the Borough.
   2.   Inspections will be carried out on a random basis, except as stated
below. However, a set of “as built” plans shall be on file at the site and
authenticated by a registered professional engineer. When it is deemed
acceptable to the Borough Engineer a designated qualified person may
authenticate the “as built” plans and will assume full responsibility for the
quality of work.
   3.   Any and all “as built” plans shall be available on the site at all
times and be subject to inspection and inquiry.
   4.   Engineering check notes shall accompany all “as built” plans which
involve structural or mechanical measures and shall serve as supporting
evidence that structures meet design standards and specifications specified
herein.
   5.   A final inspection shall be conducted by the Borough Engineer to
certify compliance with this Part. Satisfactory compliance with this Part shall
be necessary before issuance of an occupancy or use permit.
(A.O.)
§ 9-114.   Costs of Inspection.
   Permittees shall bear all costs of inspections required or permitted
hereunder and shall deposit with the Borough such sum as the Borough Council
shall determine, to guarantee payment of the costs of such inspections. The
cost of such inspections shall be in accordance with the established schedule
of fees and collection procedure for matters pertaining to this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 9-115.   Fee.
   The fee for a grading permit shall be fixed by the Borough Council pursuant
to resolution.
(A.O.)
§ 9-116.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
§ 9-117.   Remedy for Violation.
   In addition to the penalties set forth in §
9-116, any movement of the landscape, vegetation or any ground cover, performed
in violation of this Part shall be restored to its previous condition,
including replacement of excavated earth, removal of illegally placed fill and
restoration of grades and planting. In order to enforce this section the
Borough Solicitor may seek injunctive relief in accordance with the Rules of
Civil Procedure.
(A.O.)
Chapter 10
Health and Safety
Part 1
Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation
§ 10-101.   Grass, Weeds and Certain Other Vegetation Unlawful and a Nuisance
Under Certain Conditions
§ 10-102.   Responsibility for Removing or Trimming Vegetation
§ 10-103.   Notice to Remove or Trim; Work by Borough
§ 10-104.   Penalty for Violation
Part 2
Nuisances
§ 10-201.   Definitions and Interpretation
§ 10-202.   Unlawful to Create or Maintain Nuisance
§ 10-203.   Removal or Abatement of Nuisances
§ 10-204.   Penalty for Violation
§ 10-205.   Exceptions
Part 3
Junkyard and Refuse
§ 10-301.   Name and Citation
§ 10-302.   Findings and Purposes
§ 10-303.   Definitions
§ 10-304.   General Prohibition, Licensing
§ 10-305.   Temporary Accumulation of Worn Out or Discarded Items
§ 10-306.   Inspections
§ 10-307.   Nuisances
§ 10-308.   Removal of Junk
§ 10-309.   Fines and Penalties
Part 4
Motor Vehicle Nuisance
§ 10-401.   Definitions
§ 10-402.   Motor Vehicle Nuisances Prohibited
§ 10-403.   Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisances Permitted
§ 10-404.   Inspection of Premises; Notice to Comply
§ 10-405.   Authority to Remedy Noncompliance
§ 10-406.   Hearing
§ 10-407.   Penalties
§ 10-408.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive
Part 5
Storage of Nuisance Materials
§ 10-501.   Definitions
§ 10-502.   Storage of Nuisances Prohibited
§ 10-503.   Storage Requirements
§ 10-504.   Inspection of Premises; Notice to Comply
§ 10-505.   Authority to Remedy Noncompliance
§ 10-506.   Hearing
§ 10-507.   Penalties
§ 10-508.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive
Part 1
Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation
§ 10-101.   Grass, Weeds and Certain Other Vegetation Unlawful and a Nuisance
under Certain Conditions.
   No person owning or occupying any property within the Borough shall permit
any grass or weeds or any vegetation whatsoever, not edible or planted for some
useful or ornamental purpose, to grow or remain upon such premises so as to
exceed a height of 6 inches or to throw off any unpleasant or noxious odor or
to conceal any filthy deposit or to create or produce pollen. Any grass, weeds
or other vegetation growing upon any premises in the Borough in violation of
any of the provisions of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness and comfort of the inhabitants
of the Borough. Grass and weeds shall not exceed a height of 3 inches on
unpaved footpaths bordering paved streets and commonly used in lieu of
sidewalks which have not been constructed; provided, in the case of any tract
of undeveloped land, this section shall not apply to grass, weeds or vegetation
growing more than 150 feet from any residence; provided, further, this section
shall not apply to any forested land.
(Ord. 79-6, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 10-102.   Responsibility for Removing or Trimming Vegetation.
   The owner of any premises, either vacant or occupied by the owner, or the
occupant of premises occupied by other than the owner, shall remove, trim or
cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation growing or remaining upon such
premises in violation of §
10-101.
(Ord. 79-6, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 10-103.   Notice to Remove or Trim; Work by Borough.
   The Mayor or any officer or employee of the Borough designated by for the
purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal service or by United
States mail, to the owner or occupant, as the case may be, of any premises
whereon grass, weeds or other vegetation is growing or remaining in violation
of any provision of this Part, directing and requiring that the owner or
occupant remove, trim or cut such grass, weeds or vegetation so as to conform
to the requirements of this Part within 8 days after issuance of the notice. In
case any person shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with such notice within
the period of time stated therein, the Borough authorities may remove, trim or
cut such grass, weeds or vegetation and the expense of the work, together with
any additional penalty authorized by the law, may be collected by the Borough
from such person in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 79-6, 3/19/1979, § 3)
§ 10-104.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-6, 3/19/1979, § 4; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980; and by A.O.)
Part 2
Nuisances
§ 10-201.   Definitions and Interpretation.
   The word “nuisance,” as used in this Part, shall mean any use of property
within the Borough or any condition upon property within the Borough that,
other than infrequently, shall cause or result in (A) annoyance or discomfort
to persons beyond the boundaries of such property; (B) interference with the
health and/or safety of persons who might reasonably be expected to enter upon
or be in that property; and/or (C) disturbance to, or interference with, the
peaceful use of the property of others within the Borough, in any case taking
into consideration the location of the use or condition and the nature and
condition of the surrounding neighborhood. Specifically, the word “nuisance”
shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      A.   Keeping or harboring any dog or other animal or fowl which, by
frequent howling or barking or other noise or odor, annoys or disturbs the
neighborhood or a number of persons.
      B.   Maintaining or permitting the maintenance of any of the following
dangerous conditions, structures or premises:
         (1)   Open wells or cisterns.
         (2)   Open excavations.
         (3)   Unfinished buildings, foundations or other dangerous structures.
         (4)    Dangerous placement of materials or equipment.
         (5)   Lakes, ponds or swimming pools not properly safeguarded.
         (6)   Stagnant water in pools in which mosquitoes, flies or insects
multiply.
      C.   Using any property or operating any business or other activity so as
to permit or cause smoke, soot cinders, fly ash, dust, mud, dirt, acid, noxious
or other fumes, gases or odors to be carried off the premises, or to cause any
water to become polluted by sewage, industrial wastes, acid or other substance,
or to cause a glare from lights, or noise of such character as to cause
annoyance to residents or interference with the normal use of adjacent
properties.
      D.   Creation or maintenance of “attractive nuisances,” which is the
leaving of a dangerous instrumentality or structure which by its character is
dangerous and attractive to children and in a place frequented by children.
(Ord. 79-3, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 10-202.   Unlawful to Create or Maintain Nuisances.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, continue, cause, maintain or
permit to exist any nuisance at any place within the Borough.
(Ord. 79-3, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 10-203.   Removal or Abatement of Nuisances.
   Any person who shall create, continue, cause, maintain or permit to exist
any nuisance at any place within the Borough shall, within 10 days after notice
from Council to do so, remove or abate that nuisance. If the person shall fail,
neglect or refuse to abate the nuisance within the time limit, Council shall
have the authority, in person or by its agents and/or employees, to remove or
abate the nuisance and, in so doing, shall have authority to enter upon the
property of the person in default. Thereupon, Council shall collect the cost
and expense of abatement or removal from the person who created, continued,
caused or maintained the nuisance and/or permitted the nuisance to exist, with
an additional amount of 10 percent, in the manner provided for the collection
of municipal claims or by action in assumpsit; provided, that cost and expense
may be in addition to any penalty imposed under §
10-204.
(Ord. 79-3, 3/19/1979, § 3)
§ 10-204.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $25
nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-3, 3/19/1979, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 10-205.   Exceptions.
   This Part shall not be construed to be the sole means for abatement of
nuisance within the Borough and nothing shall preclude any person from
proceeding individually or with other injured persons to effect the abatement
of a private nuisance. Further more, in the exercise of the powers conferred in
this Part, the Borough may institute proceedings in equity.
(Ord. 79-3, 3/19/1979, § 5)
Part 3
Junkyard and Refuse
§ 10-301.   Name and Citation.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Troy Borough Junkyard and
Refuse Ordinance.”
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § I)
§ 10-302.   Findings and Purposes.
   The Borough Council of Troy Borough, Bradford County, Pennsylvania, find and
declare that the maintenance of junkyards and the storage of junk within the
Borough represent unique dangers to the health, welfare and safety of the
residents of Troy Borough. In particular, the storage of junk and the
maintenance of junkyards can and will, if not properly regulated, result in
traffic hazards, dangers from fire and explosion, threats to the safety of
children and incompetents, provide breeding places for insects and vermin,
create substantial risks of pollution of surface and subsurface waters within
the Borough, create unique problems for law enforcement and firefighting and
require that the Borough engage in additional expense for the supervision and
regulation of such places. The Council members further find that the said
dangers to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Borough
require that junkyards be prohibited within the Borough and that such junk as
may accumulate within the Borough be removed to a licensed facility for the
disposal of the same at regular intervals.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § II)
§ 10-303.   Definitions.
   The following words shall, for the purposes of this Part, have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   Abandoned or junked motor vehicles–all vehicles not in regular use whether
operable or not and in particular any unlicenced or unregistered or uninsured
motor vehicle whether or not the same possesses any value. Any vehicle which
meets this definition, but which is held by a licensed automobile dealer or a
facility in the business of repairing vehicles for profit shall not be an
abandoned or junked motor vehicle, if the vehicle is being held as inventory
for sale or is being temporarily stored until the same can be repaired.
   Borough–Troy Borough, Bradford County, Pennsylvania.
   Borough Council–the Borough Council of Troy Borough, Bradford County,
Pennsylvania.
   Junk–any worn out or discarded material in general that may be turned to
some use including, but not limited to, plush furniture stored outdoors, old
rope, chain, iron or other base metals, rags, wastepaper, empty bottles,
copper, parts of machinery, used tires or rubber, scrap metal, abandoned or
junked vehicles or equipment, containers and part or portions of structures and
all articles discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article and all
other similar items.
   Junk dealer–any person as hereinbefore defined, who is engaged in the
business of selling, buying, salvaging or dealing in junk or who maintains or
operates a junkyard or who permits a junkyard to exist upon premises owned by
him or her, leased by him or her or controlled by him or her.
   Junkyard–any place where junk as hereinafter defined is stored, deposited,
collected, disposed of or existing outdoors, including any place where an
abandoned or junked motor vehicle is kept.
   Person–any individual, partnership, association, corporation or entity of
any kind specifically identifiable.
   Site, junkyard site, proposed site–the actual area of land upon which a
junkyard exists or upon which a person proposes to have a junkyard. For
purposes of determining the application fee or application requirements, all
sites owned, operated or maintained by 1 person or related persons and situated
on a contiguous tract or tracts of land, shall be considered to be 1 site.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § III)
§ 10-304.   General Prohibition, Licensing.
   1.   From and after the date of this Part, no person shall establish a
junkyard or keep an abandoned or junked motor vehicle within the Borough of
Troy. All junkyards presently existing shall be permitted to continue to exist;
provided, that the person owning or controlling the same applies for and
obtains a license for the same within 30 days following the date of this Part;
and, provided, that the junkyard is maintained and continues to be licensed as
provided in this Part. No junkyard presently existing within the Borough shall
be enlarged or expanded from its present site from and after the date of this
Part.
   2.   Any person presently owning or controlling an existing junkyard within
the Borough shall make application for a license to continue to operate the
same, on such forms as shall be made available for that purpose by the Borough,
within 30 days from the date of this Part and shall continue annually to make
application for a license, each of which shall be effective for 1 year and
shall pay the fee for such license upon submission of an application for
license and no such application shall be deemed to be filed until the same is
submitted with the required fee.
   3.   The fee for the license provided for herein shall be established by
resolution of the Borough Council, from time to time.
   4.   Each person owning or controlling a licensed junkyard shall comply with
all of the fencing, stacking and access roadway requirements set forth under §
10-305 herein.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, HIV)
§ 10-305.   Temporary Accumulation of Worn Out or Discarded Items.
   All businesses that necessarily accumulate worn out or discarded items as a
natural part of the performance of their businesses may accumulate such worn
out or discarded items temporarily on their business premises; provided, that
the items so stored are removed entirely from the premises upon which they are
stored no less than once each 6 months; and, further provided, that the area
within which such items are stored complies with the following requirements:
   A.   Fencing. In order to assure that a storage area or junkyard site does
not present burdensome and expensive law enforcement difficulties or present a
danger to children or incompetents, each storage site shall be surrounded by a
solid human-made wall, natural features or fence of sturdy and durable construc
tion the height of which shall be at least 6 feet; provided, however, that if
the Borough Council finds that an enclosure of greater height is necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Borough they
shall require the applicant to construct and maintain an enclosure of greater
height.
   B.   Stacking. Junk shall not be stored, kept or maintained in any storage
area or junkyard site in such a manner that the same is piled or stacked to a
height which presents a danger to persons or property and, in particular, motor
vehicles shall not be piled or stacked and major parts of motor vehicles shall
not be piled or stacked more than 2 in height and in no event shall such items
be piled, accumulated, stacked or stored such as to protrude above the fence
surrounding the storage area or junkyard site.
   C.   Access Roadways. Each storage area or junkyard site shall have an
access road from a public road into the storage area or junkyard site of
sufficient width to allow the passage of emergency vehicles and firefighting
apparatus. Such access roads shall be at least 20 feet in width and shall be of
sufficient construction to enable the said vehicles to have access to the
storage area or junkyard site. In addition thereto, items stored within the
storage area or junkyard site shall be arranged in a neat and orderly manner
and shall allow a passageway at least 20 feet in width to allow the passage of
emergency vehicles and firefighting apparatus.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2002, § V)
§ 10-306.   Inspections.
   The officers of the Borough shall inspect each storage area and each
licensed junkyard within the Borough at least once each year to determine
whether violations exist and shall report to the Borough Council at least once
each year.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § VI)
§ 10-307.   Nuisances.
   No person shall cause or permit junk to accumulate outdoors on any parcel of
real estate in the Borough, except in compliance with this Part. Any person who
causes or permits junk to accumulate outdoors shall be deemed to be maintaining
a nuisance and shall abate that nuisance upon demand by the proper officers of
the Borough and, in default thereof, the Borough shall cause the same to be
done and such person shall thereafter pay to the Borough the cost thereof,
together with a penalty equal to 10 percent of the costs, together with such
other damages as may have been sustained by the public at large as the result
of the maintenance of such nuisance, which shall be collected in the manner
provided by law for the collection of municipal claims or by an appropriate
suit at law or in equity.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § VII)
§ 10-308.   Removal of Junk.
   All junk within the Borough shall be removed only to a facility properly
licensed to receive the same.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/200, § VIII)
§ 10-309.   Fines and Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision §§
10-304 or
10-305 of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine
of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation §§
10-304 or
10-305 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 00-2, 7/19/2000, § IX; as amended by A.O.)
Part 4
Motor Vehicle Nuisance
§ 10-401.   Definitions.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      Lessee–owner for the purpose of this Part when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
      Motor vehicle–any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in
which persons or property may be transported upon public streets or highways
and including trailers or semi-trailers pulled thereby.
      Nuisance–any condition, structure or improvement which shall constitute a
danger or potential danger to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the Borough.
      Owner–the actual owner, agent or custodian of the property on which motor
vehicles are stored, whether individual or partnership, association or
corporation.
      Person–a natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter.
(A.O.)
§ 10-402.   Motor Vehicle Nuisance Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or lessee to maintain a motor
vehicle nuisance upon the open private grounds of such person, owner or lessee
within the Borough. A motor vehicle nuisance shall include any motor vehicle
which is unable to move under its own power and has any of the following
physical defects:
      A.   Broken windshields, mirror or other glass, with sharp edges.
      B.   One or more flat or open tires or tubes which could permit vermin
harborage.
      C.   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk or other body parts which could
permit animal harborage.
      D.   Any body parts with sharp edges, including holes resulting from
rust.
      E.   Missing tires resulting in unsafe suspension of the motor vehicle.
      F.   Upholstery which is torn or open which could permit animal and
vermin harborage.
      G.   Broken head-lamps or tail-lamps with sharp edges.
      H.   Disassembled chassis parts apart from the motor vehicle stored in a
disorderly fashion or loose in or on the vehicle.
      I.   Protruding sharp objects from the chassis.
      J.   Broken vehicle frame suspended from the ground in an unstable
manner.
      K.   Leaking or damaged oil pan or gas tank which could cause fire or
explosion.
      L.   Exposed battery containing acid.
      M.   Inoperable locking mechanism for doors or trunk.
      N.   Open or damaged floor boards, including trunk and firewall.
      O.   Damaged bumpers pulled away from the perimeter of vehicle.
      P.   Broken grill with protruding edges.
      Q.   Loose or damaged metal trim and clips.
      R.   Broken communication equipment antennae.
      S.   Suspended on unstable supports.
      T.   Such other defects which could threaten the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 10-403.   Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisance Permitted.
   1.   Any person, owner or lessee who has 1 or more motor vehicle nuisances
as defined in §
10-402 above may store such vehicle(s) in the Borough only in strict compliance
with the regulations provided herein. Such person, owner or lessee must, first,
apply for a permit for either temporary or permanent storage and pay a fee to
the Borough pursuant to a resolution of the Borough Council. The motor vehicle
nuisance(s) must be stored within a garage or other enclosed building or
outside within an opaque fence at least 6 feet high which is locked at all time
when unattended.
   2.   With the special approval of the Borough Council, motor vehicle
nuisances may also be stored outside in an area enclosed by a chain link fence,
at least 6 feet high, screened by shrubbery around the perimeter to the height
of the fence, with an unobstructed gate capable of admitting fire or emergency
equipment. Such gate shall remain locked at all times when unattended. In
addition, all gas and oil or other flammable liquid shall be removed from the
motor vehicle and it shall be kept free of vermin infestation while being
stored. The total area of storage of motor vehicle nuisances may not exceed [ 
] square feet.
   3.   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the storage of motor
vehicle nuisances contrary to the provisions of the Borough of Troy Zoning
Ordinance [Chapter 27].
(A.O.)
§ 10-404.   Inspection of Premises; Notice to Comply.
   1.   The [Enforcement Office/Inspector] is hereby empowered to inspect
private property on which motor vehicles are stored to determine if there is
compliance with the provisions of this Part. In noncompliance with the
provisions of this part constitutes a nuisance, or if any condition, structure
or improvement poses a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public,
he or she shall issue a written notice to be served by registered or certified
mail upon the owner of said premises or, if the owner’s whereabouts or identity
be unknown, by posting the notice conspicuously upon the offending premises.
   2.   Said notice shall specify the condition or structure or improvement
complained of and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition or structure or improvement as set forth therein within
10 days of mailing or posting of said notice and thereafter to fully comply
with the requirements of the notice within a reasonable time.
(A.O.)
§ 10-405.   Authority to Remedy Noncompliance.
   If the owner of grounds on which motor vehicles are stored does not comply
with the notice to abate the nuisance, within the time limit prescribed, the
Borough shall have the authority to take measures to correct the conditions and
collect the cost of such corrections plus 10 percent of all costs. The Borough,
in such event and pursuant to its statutory or otherwise authorized police
powers, shall have the right and power to enter upon the offending premises to
accomplish the foregoing.
(A.O.)
§ 10-406.   Hearing.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the [Enforcement Office/
Inspector] may request and shall then be granted a hearing before the Borough
Council; provided, he or she files with the Borough Council within 10 days
after notice of the [Enforce ment Officer’s/Inspector’s ] decision, a written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the
grounds therefor. The hearing shall commence not later than 30 days after the
date on which the petition was filed unless postponed for sufficient cause.
   2.   After such hearing, the Borough Council shall sustain, modify or
overrule the action of the [Enforcement Office/Inspector].
(A.O.)
§ 10-407.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
§ 10-408.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive.
   The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of this Part, or any remedy
provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive; rather they may be
employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of the Borough Council.
(A.O.)
Part 5
Storage of Nuisance Materials
§ 10-501.   Definitions.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      Lessee–owner for the purpose of this Part when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
      Nuisance–any condition, structure or improvement which shall constitute a
threat or potential threat to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the Borough.
      Owner–the actual owner, agent or custodian of the property on which
machinery, equipment or materials are stored, whether individual or
partnership, association or corporation.
      Person– a natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter.
(A.O.)
§ 10-502.   Storage of Nuisances Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or maintain abandoned, unused,
stripped, damaged and generally unusable appliances, machinery or equipment or
construction materials in the open on private property. Such storage shall
constitute a nuisance and/or health hazard if any of the following conditions
exist:
      A.   Broken glass or metal parts with sharp or protruding edges.
      B.   Containers which are conducive to the harboring and growth of vermin
or animals.
      C.   Storage in any manner which would allow the equipment, machinery,
material or any parts thereof to easily shift, tilt or fall from its original
storage position.
      D.   Containers of any liquid or material of a hazardous or potentially
hazardous nature including, but not limited to, gasoline, oil, battery acids,
refrigeration agents and poisons.
      E.   Any other condition which shall threaten the health, safety or
welfare of the citizens.
      F.   Refrigerators with the doors remaining attached.
(A.O.)
§ 10-503.   Storage Requirements.
   1.   Storage of such items as listed in §
10-502 hereof on private property shall be permitted only in strict compliance
with the regulations provided herein or with stricter regulations in other
Borough ordinances, or in state or federal laws. Each person, owner or lessee
desiring to store items described in §
10-502 shall apply for a permit for either temporary or permanent storage and
pay a fee to the Borough pursuant to a resolution of the Borough Council. Such
nuisance(s) must be stored with a garage or other enclosed building or,
outside, within an opaque fence at least 6 feet high which is locked at all
times when unattended.
   2.   With the special approval of the Borough Council, nuisances may be
stored outside in an area enclosed by a chain link fence, at least 6 feet high,
screened by shrubbery around the perimeter to the height of the fence, with an
unobstructed gate capable of admitting fire or emergency equipment. Such gate
shall remain locked at all times when unattended. In addition, the appliances,
machinery, equipment or construction materials shall be kept free of vermin
infestation while being stored and all gas, oil or other potentially hazardous
substances shall be removed. The total area of storage of such nuisances may
not exceed [  ] square feet.
   3.   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the storage of appliance,
machinery, equipment or material nuisances contrary to the provisions of the
Borough Zoning Ordinance [Chapter 27].
(A.O.)
§ 10-504.   Inspection of premises; notice to comply.
   1.   The [Enforcement Officer/Inspector] is hereby empowered to inspect
private property on which appliances, machinery, equipment and/or various
construction materials are stored to determine if there is compliance with the
provisions of this Part. If noncompliance with the provisions of this Part
constitutes a nuisance or if any condition, structure or improvement poses a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public, he or she shall issue a
written notice to be served by registered or certified mail upon the owner of
said premises or, if the owner’s whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting
the notice conspicuously upon the offending premises.
   2.   Said notice shall specify the condition considered to be a hazard and/
or nuisance and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition as set forth in the notice within 10 days of mailing or
posting of said notice and, thereafter, to fully comply with the requirements
of the notice within a reasonable time.
(A.O.)
§ 10-505.   Authority to Remedy Noncompliance.
   If the owner of property on which appliances, machinery, equipment and/or
construction materials are stored does not comply with the notice to abate the
nuisance, within the time limit prescribed, the Borough shall have the
authority to take measures to correct the conditions and collect the cost of
such corrections plus 10 percent of all costs. The Borough in such event and
pursuant to its statutory or otherwise authorized police powers, shall have the
right and power to enter upon the offending premises to accomplish the
foregoing.
(A.O.)
§ 10-506.   Hearing.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the [Enforcement Office/
Inspector] may request and shall then be granted a hearing before the Borough
Council; provided, he or she files with the Borough Council within 10 days
after notice of the [Enforce ment Officer/Inspector’s] decision, a written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the
grounds therefor. The hearing shall commence not later than 30 days after the
date on which the petition was filed unless postponed for sufficient cause.
   2.   After such hearing, the Borough Council shall sustain, modify or
overrule the action of the [Enforcement Officer/Inspector].
(A.O.)
§ 10-507.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
§ 10-508.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive.
   The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of this Part, or any remedy
provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusively; rather they may be
employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of the Borough Council.
(A.O.)
Chapter 11
Housing
Part 1
Fair Housing
§ 11-101.   Definitions
§ 11-102.   Scope
§ 11-103.   Prohibited Acts
§ 11-104.   Exemptions
§ 11-105.   Enforcement
Part 2
Landlord Reports
§ 11-201.   Purposes
§ 11-202.   Definitions and Interpretation
§ 11-203.   Reports by Landlords
§ 11-204.   Reports by Persons Upon Becoming Landlords
§ 11-205.   Reports of Changes in Use or Occupancy
§ 11-206.   Duties of the Borough Secretary
§ 11-207.   Penalties
Part 1
Fair Housing
§ 11-101.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
content, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   Commission–the Human Relations Commission of the Borough of Troy.
   Discriminate or discrimination–any difference in treatment in the sale,
lease, rental or financing of housing units or housing accommodations because
of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of
a guide dog because of the blindness of the user.
   Housing unit–a single room or suite of rooms, or an apartment or dwelling,
occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters by an individual
or a family, or a parcel of real property or a lot available for the
construction of a housing unit.
   Lending institution–any person, as defined in this Part, regularly engaged
in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans.
   Owner–the lessee, sub-lessee, assignee, managing agent person having the
right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell, lease any housing unit
which is part of a housing accommodation or to services in connection
therewith.
   Person–an association, partnership or corporation, as a natural person. When
applied to partnerships or other associations, including their members, and as
applied to corporation, it includes the officers of the corporation.
   Real estate broker–any natural person, partnership, association or
corporation who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, or other
remuneration, sells, purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates or offers or
attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of the real
property of another, presenting himself or herself as engaged in the business
of selling, purchasing, exchanging or renting the real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of said property of another or attempts to secure
the listing for sale or rental of existing unit by representing that a change
has occurred or will or may occur with respect to the racial, religious or
ethnic composition of the street, block, neighborhood or other area in which
said housing accommodation is located.
   Real estate salesperson or agent–any person employed by a real estate broker
to perform, or to assist in the performance of, any or all of the duties of a
real estate broker or providing any services in connection therewith.
(Ord. 78-3, 5/8/1978, § I)
§ 11-102.   Scope.
   This Part applies to discriminatory housing units located within territorial
limits of the Borough.
(Ord. 78-3, 5/8/1978, III)
§ 11-103.   Prohibited Acts.
   1.   No real estate broker or real estate salesperson or agent, or owner or
other person shall refuse to sell, lease, sublease, rent, assign or otherwise
transfer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale, lease, sublease, rental,
assignment or other transfer of the title, leasehold or other interest in any
housing unit to any person, or represent that a housing unit is not available
for inspection, sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer
when in fact it is so available, or otherwise deny or withhold any housing unit
from any person because of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, age, sex,
national origin or use of guide dog because of the blindness of the user.
   2.   No owner shall refuse to sell, lease, sublease, rent, assign or
otherwise transfer the title, leasehold or other interest in any housing unit
which is part of a housing unit to any person, or otherwise deny or withhold
such housing unit or deny or withhold the furnishing of services in connection
therewith from any person because of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry,
age, sex, national origin or use of a guide dog because of the blindness of the
user.
   3.   No real estate broker or real estate salesperson or agent shall include
in the terms, conditions or privileges or services in connection therewith of
any sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer of any housing
unit, any clause, condition or restriction discriminating against any person in
the use of occupancy of such housing unit because of race, color, religion,
creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of a guide dog because of the
blindness of the user.
   4.   No person shall include in the terms, conditions or privileges of the
sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer of a housing unit,
which is part of a housing accommodation, any clause, condition or restriction
discriminating against any person in the use or occupancy of such housing unit
because of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or
use of a guide dog because of the blindness of the user.
   5.   No person shall discriminate in the furnishing of any facilities or
services for a housing unit which is part of a housing accommodation because of
race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of a
guide dog because of the blindness of the user.
   6.   No lending institution shall discriminate in lending money,
guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing unit or housing accommodation because of race, color, religion,
creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of a guide dog because of the
blindness of the user.
   7.   No real estate broker, real estate salesperson or agent, owner or any
other person or any lending institution shall publish or circulate, or cause to
be published or circulated, any notice, statement or advertisement, or announce
a policy or use any form of application for the purchase, lease, rental or
financing of housing, or make any record or inquiry in connection with the
prospective purchase, rental or lease of housing, which expresses directly or
indirectly any limitation, specification or discrimination as to race, color,
religion, creed ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of a guide dog
because of the blindness of the user, or any intent to make any such
limitation, specification or discrimination.
   8.   No person, whether or not a real estate broker, real estate salesperson
or agent, owner or lending institution, shall aid, incite, compel, coerce or
participate in the doing of any act declared to be unlawful housing practice
under this Part, or obstruct or prevent enforcement or compliance with the
provisions of this Part, of any rule, regulation or order of the Commission, or
attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Part to be an
unlawful housing practice.
(Ord. 78-3, 5/8/1978, § III)
§ 11-104.   Exemptions.
   Nothing in this Part shall bar any religious or denominational institution
or religious or denominational organization which is operated, supervised or
controlled by or in connection with a religious organization from limiting
admission to or giving preference to persons of the same religion or
denomination, or from making such selection as is calculated by such
organization to promote the religious principles for which it is established or
maintained, as long as such selection or preference is not on the basis of
race, color, creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or use of a guide dog
because of the blindness of the user.
(Ord. 78-3, 5/8/1978, § IV)
§ 11-105.   Enforcement.
   The provisions of this Part shall be enforced by the Human Relations
Commission of the Borough of Troy pursuant to procedures and regulations which
they shall establish. The Mayor and Borough Council shall serve as the Human
Relations Commission of Troy Borough.
(Ord. 78-3, 5/8/1978, § V)
Part 2
Landlord Reports
§ 11-201.   Purposes.
   This Part is enacted to provide for the uniform and equitable distribution
of the tax levies in the Borough and upon the inhabitants thereof and to
promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of
the Borough.
(A.O.)
§ 11-202.   Definitions and Interpretation.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   Business unit–a parcel of real estate, with or without improvements located
thereon utilized by any person or person for any commercial activity or
purpose.
   Dwelling unit–one or more rooms used for living and sleeping purposes
arranged for occupancy by 1 family or by 1 or more persons.
   Landlord–a lessor or person who acts as agent for the lessor of any parcel
of real estate located in the Borough, or a lessor, or person who acts as agent
for the lessor, of any improvements on real estate or any building located in
the Borough.
   Person–any individual, partnership, association, firm or corporation.
   Tenant–a person who has the use, either by himself or herself or with
others, of a dwelling unit or a business unit owned by a person other than
himself or herself, for a period exceeding 30 days.
(A.O.)
§ 11-203.   Reports by Landlords.
   A.   Within 30 days from the effective date of this Part, each landlord
shall submit to the Borough Secretary a report form supplied by the Borough
Secretary, which includes the following information:
      1.   List of the dwelling units and business units owned by the landlord,
located within the Borough limits, whether occupied or not occupied.
      2.   Address of each dwelling unit or business unit.
      3.   Brief description of each unit or business unit.
      4.   Whether or not said dwelling unit or business unit is inhabited or
utilized by tenants.
      5.   Names of the tenant or tenants utilizing the aforementioned dwelling
unit or business unit, if any.
   B.   All landlords owning rental properties in the Borough shall provide to
the Borough Tax Collector the name and address of each tenant to whom the
landlord has rented a residential rental unit. Furthermore, each such landlord
shall notify the Borough Tax Collector of the name and address of any such
tenant, when there has been a change in the tenancy.
(A.O.; as amended by Res. 18-06, 6/28/2018)
§ 11-204.   Reports by Person upon Becoming Landlords.
   After the effective date of this Part, any person who becomes a landlord of
any parcel of real estate or any improvement on real estate or building located
in the Borough by agreement of sale, by deed or by any other means shall,
within 30 days thereafter, report to the Borough Secretary the information and
data set forth in §
11-203 above on forms to be provided by the Borough Secretary.
(A.O.)
§ 11-205.   Reports of Changes in Use or Occupancy.
   After the effective date of this Part, each and every landlord of property
within the Borough shall report to the Borough Secretary on a report form
supplied by the Borough Secretary, any change in the use or occupancy of any
dwelling unit or business unit owned by such landlord. The reported change
shall include the name or names of new tenants of such dwelling unit or
business unit, the date when such change was effected and the forwarding
address of the old tenant or tenants, if known. A landlord of a hotel, inn or
boarding house shall not be required to report a person as a “tenant” until
that person has resided in such landlord’s establishment for a period exceeding
30 days. In the event that a dwelling unit or business unit was used or
utilized by a tenant and then becomes vacant, this change shall also be
reported to the Borough Secretary. All reports required by this section shall
be made within 10 days after a landlord has knowledge that such a unit has had
a change in occupancy or has become vacant.
(A.O.)
§ 11-206.   Duties of the Borough Secretary.
   The Borough Secretary under the authority of this Part, shall:
   A.   Maintain on file at the Borough office, the names of the landlords
owning dwelling units and business units in the Borough, said list to include
the names of the current tenants of said dwelling units and business units.
   B.   Maintain a supply of forms for landlords to use in making reports to
the Borough Secretary as required by §§
11-203,
11-204 and
11-205 of this Part.
   C.   Notify the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief of the Borough of the
address and description of any dwelling unit or business that is vacant,
unoccupied and not in use.
(A.O.)
§ 11-207.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Chapter 12
[Reserved]
Chapter 13
Licenses, Permits and General Business Regulations
Part 1
Transient Retail Business
§ 13-101.   Definition
§ 13-102.   License Required to Engage in Transient Retail Business
§ 13-103.   Application for License
§ 13-104.   Investigation; Issuance or Refusal of License
§ 13-105.   Custody, Display and Exhibit of License
§ 13-106.   Prohibited Acts
§ 13-107.   Certain Practices Constitute Nuisances
§ 13-108.   Suspension or Revocation of License
§ 13-109.   Penalty for Violation
Part 2
Garage and Yard Sale Permits
§ 13-201.   Title
§ 13-202.   Purpose
§ 13-203.   Definitions
§ 13-204.   Permit Required; Fee; Conditions for Sale
§ 13-205.   Exemptions
§ 13-206.   Enforcement
§ 13-207.   Penalties
Part 1
Transient Retail Business
§ 13-101.   Definitions.
   The term “transient retail business” as used in this Part shall mean and
include the following: (A) engaging in peddling, selling, canvassing,
soliciting or taking orders, either by sample or otherwise, for any goods,
wares or merchandise upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public place, or from
house to house, within the Borough; and (B) selling, soliciting or taking
orders for any goods, wares or merchandise, from a fixed location within the
Borough, on a temporary basis which shall include, but shall not be limited to,
any activities conducted at the time of special occasions or celebrations, for
seasonal purposes or for or in advance of particular yearly holidays; “garage
sales” by residents held on the premises of their residences are exempted.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-1)
§ 13-102.   License Required to Engage in Transient Retail Business.
   No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the Borough
without first having obtained from the Borough Manager a license for which a
fee, in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of the Borough
Council, which shall be for the use of the Borough, shall be paid; provided, no
license fee shall be required under this section: (A) for solicitations for
recognized charitable and philanthropic purposes; (B) for the sale of goods,
wares and merchandise, the proceeds of which are to be applied to bona fide
charitable or philanthropic purposes; (C) from bona fide Borough residents duly
registered for a license; provided, further, any person dealing in 1 or more of
the above mentioned exempted categories, and selling other goods, wares and
merchandise not so exempted, shall be subject to payment of the license fee
fixed by this section for his or her activities in connection with the sale of
goods, wares and merchandise not so exempted. Provided, further, the Manager
may similarly exempt from payment of the license fee persons working without
compensa tion and selling goods, wares or merchandise for the sole benefit of
any nonprofit organization. Provided, further, every license issued under the
provisions of this Part shall be issued on an individual basis to persons
engaging in a transient retail business; every individual shall obtain a
separate license, issued to him or her in his or her name, and the license fee
imposed by this section shall be applicable to every individual license.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-2; as amended by A.O.)
§ 13-103.   Application for License.
   Every person desiring a license under this Part shall first make application
to the Manager for the license. If the person shall also be required to obtain
a license from any state or county officer, he or she shall, when making the
application, exhibit a valid license from the state or county officer. The
applicant shall give his or her name and address; the name of the person by
whom he or she is employed; the type of goods, wares and merchandise he or she
wishes to deal within transient retail business; the number of persons to be
employed by him or her in the Borough; and the type and license numbers of all
vehicles to be used, if any. The application shall be accompanied by the
license fee required by §
13-102 and shall include a photograph of the applicant. The application shall
state the inclusive dates during which the business will be conducted.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-3)
§ 13-104.   Investigation; Issuance or Refusal of License.
   Following the making of the application by the applicant, no license shall
be issued until the Police Department has investigated the application, but the
waiting period for the purpose of the investigation shall not exceed 72 hours.
Following the investigation, the Police Department shall report the results.
The license may be refused in any case where the investigation discloses a
criminal record or any false or misleading statement on the application. When a
license is refused, the Borough shall return to the applicant the license fee
that had been paid to the Borough at the time of making the application less
the sum of $5, which shall be retained by the Borough to partially reimburse
the Borough for the expenses of investigation.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-4)
§ 13-105.   Custody, Display and Exhibit of License.
   Every license holder shall carry the license upon his or her person or shall
display it upon his or her vehicle, if he or she is engaged in a transient
retail business from house to house or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or
public ground, or he or she shall display the license at the fixed location
where he or she shall engage in business if doing so from a fixed location. He
or she shall exhibit the license, upon request, to all police officers, Borough
officials and citizens or residents of the Borough.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-5)
§ 13-106.   Prohibited Acts.
   No person engaged in any transient retail business shall:
   A.   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his or her
license.
   B.   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground in the Borough, or use any loud speaker or horn or other device for
announcing his or her presence by which the public may be annoyed.
   C.   When selling from a vehicle, stop or park the vehicle upon any street
or alley in the Borough for longer than necessary in order to sell from the
vehicle to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity.
   D.   Engage in any house-to-house activity, except by prior appointment,
before 11:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-6)
§ 13-107.   Certain Practices Constitute Nuisances.
   The practice or custom of going in and upon private residences in the
Borough by solicitors, peddlers, itinerant merchants or transient retail
merchants, regardless of whether they hold a valid license under this Part, not
having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of that
private residence, for the purpose of disposing of, peddling or hawking goods,
wares or merchandise is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as
stated, and is also a violation of this Part. The text of this section shall be
stated on the license.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-7)
§ 13-108.   Suspension and Revocation of License.
   The Mayor is authorized to suspend or revoke any license issued under this
Part when he or she deems the suspension or revocation to be in the interest of
the public health, safety or morals, or for violation of any provision of this
Part, or for giving false information upon any application for a license under
this Part. Appeals from any suspension or revocation may be made to Council at
any time within 10 days after suspension or revocation. No part of a license
fee shall be refunded to any person whose license has been suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-8)
§ 13-109.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-5, 3/19/1979, § 13-9; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Garage and Yard Sale Permits
§ 13-201.   Title.
   This Part shall be known and cited as “Garage and Yard Sale Permit
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 1)
§ 13-202.   Purpose.
   These rules and regulations are designed to control and restrict garage and
yard sales in order to protect the public, health, safety and convenience and
to restrict such sales to casual and/or occasional occurrences, only, in
keeping with the character of the neighborhood where this activity is carried
on in compliance with the Zoning Ordinance of the Borough of Troy [Chapter 27].
The intent of this Part is to eliminate perpetual, prolonged and extended
garage and yard sales in residential areas. Such sales if continued
indefinitely tend to become retail businesses in residential areas and zones,
create a nuisance and often violate the Zoning Ordinance of the Borough of Troy
[Chapter 27]. The provisions of this Part arise from the need to omit,
regulate, restrict and control garage and yard sales. It is not the intent of
this Part to change or amend the Zoning Ordinance [Chapter 27], Transient
Business Ordinance [Part 1] and/or any other ordinances of the Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 2)
§ 13-203.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
 
      Garage sales–
         (1)   The sale or offering for sale of 10 or more new, used or
secondhand items of personal property at any 1 residential premises at any 1
time.
         (2)   Includes all sales in residential areas entitled “garage sales,”
“yard sales,” “tag sales,” “porch sale,” “lawn sale,” “attic sale,” “basement
sale,” “rummage sale,” “flea market sale,” or any similar casual sale of
tangible personal property.
      Goods–any goods, warehouse merchandise or other personal property capable
of being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
      Persons– individuals, partnerships, family groups, voluntary associations
and corporations.
      Municipality–all residential dwellings located within any type of zone,
zoned area, zoning district, whether or not said areas or zones are
residential, business, commercial or otherwise, within the geographic
boundaries of the Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 3)
§ 13-204.   Permit Required; Fee; Conditions for Sale.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale within the
geographic boundaries of the Borough of Troy without first obtaining a garage
sale license from Borough Manager after filing an application containing the
information hereinafter specified.
   2.   The first garage sale license issued to any 1 person or for any 1
premises within one 12-month period shall be issued without charge. For the
second such license issued in any 12-month period, there shall be a
nonrefundable fee as set by the Troy Borough Council pursuant to a resolution.
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 4)
§ 13-205.   Exemptions.
   This Part shall not be applicable to:
      A.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order of process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
      C.   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which is specifically named or described in the advertisement
and which separate items do not exceed 9 in number. Notwithstanding any
provisions of this Part, any person may sell up to 9 secondhand articles
without being subject to the provisions of this Part.
      D.   Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication or other
communications media who publishes or broadcasts anything in good faith without
knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character or without knowledge
that the provisions of this Part have not been met.
      E.   Any sale conducted by any legitimate business or commercial or
industrial establishment on property zoned under the zoning regulations of the
Borough of Troy with or without the protection of the nonconforming use section
of the zoning laws, or any sale conducted by any other vendor or dealer when
the sale is conducted in a properly zoned area and not otherwise prohibited by
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and ordinances of the Borough of Troy
including this Part.
      F.   Sales by a bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural
or governmental institution, civic group, service club, religious or fraternal
society or other tax-exempt organization; provided, however, that the burden of
proof to establish the exemption under this subsection shall be on the
organization or institution claiming such exemption.
      G.   Any public auction having a duration of no more than 2 days and
conducted by an auctioneer, licensed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 5)
§ 13-206.   Enforcement.
   1.   This Part shall be enforced by the Borough Manager or other legal
enforcement personnel designated by Borough Council and it shall be his or her
duty to investigate and prosecute any violation of this Part.
   2.   If after an investigation, a violation is found to exist, the Borough
Manager or other legal enforcement personnel designated by Borough Council
shall prosecute a complaint before a magisterial district judge pursuant to the
provisions of this Part. [A.O.]
   3.   The person to whom the garage sale license was issued and the person
conducting the sale and the owner, tenant or occupant of the premises where the
sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly or severally responsible for the
maintenance of good order and decorum on the premises during the hours of such
sale or activity.
      A.   No such persons shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on such
premises or street vehicles to impede the passage of the traffic on any roads
or streets in the area of the premises where the sale is being conducted.
      B.   In the event of an emergency, all such persons shall obey reasonable
orders from any member of the Police Department or the Fire Department in order
to maintain the public health, safety and convenience.
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 6; as amended by A.O.)
§ 13-207.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 06-03, –/–/2006, § 7, as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 14
[Reserved]
Chapter 15
Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 15-101.   Definitions and Interpretations
§ 15-102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
§ 15-103.   Provisions to Be Continuation of Existing Regulations
§ 15-104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
§ 15-105.   Experimental Regulations
§ 15-106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction,
Maintenance or Special Events
§ 15-107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages
§ 15-108.   Authority of Police Officers
§ 15-109.   Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets
§ 15-202.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Bridges and Elevated
Structures
§ 15-203.   Maximum Speed Limits Established for Certain Vehicles on Hazardous
Grades
§ 15-204.   Maximum Speed Limits Established in Parks
§ 15-205.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations
§ 15-206.   Intersections Where Turn Prohibited on Red Signal
§ 15-207.   One-Way Roadways Established
§ 15-208.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted
§ 15-209.   Right Turns Prohibited at Certain Intersections
§ 15-210.   U-turns Prohibited at Certain Locations
§ 15-211.   No Passing Zones Established
§ 15-212.   Through Highways Established
§ 15-213.   Stop Intersections Established
§ 15-214.   Yield Intersections Established
§ 15-215.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Restricted on Public Lands
§ 15-216.   Rotary Traffic Islands Established
§ 15-217.   Snowmobile Roads Designated
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicle and Load
§ 15-301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges
§ 15-302.   Restrictions on Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and Bridges
§ 15-303.   Restrictions as to Weight and Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets
and Bridges
§ 15-304.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
§ 15-401.   Vehicles to Be Parked Within Marked Spaces
§ 15-402.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations
§ 15-403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours
§ 15-404.   Parking of Trucks, Buses and Certain Other Vehicles Prohibited in
Certain Locations
§ 15-405.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours
§ 15-406.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited
§ 15-407.   Standing or Parking on Roadway for Loading or Unloading
§ 15-408.   Angle Parking Required on Portions of Certain Streets
§ 15-409.   Parking Prohibited on Portions of Certain Highways During Street
Sweeping Hours
§ 15-410.   Residential Permit Parking
§ 15-411.   Penalties
Part 5
On-Street Metered Parking
§ 15-501.   Parking Meter Zone Established
§ 15-502.   Days and Hours Parking Meters in Operation and Parking Time Limits
Apply
§ 15-503.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters
§ 15-504.   Parked Vehicles to Be Wholly Within Marked Spaces
§ 15-505.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful
§ 15-506.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter
§ 15-507.   Unlawful to Deposit Coin in Meter to Extend Parking Time Beyond
Legal Limit
§ 15-508.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at Meter Showing Violation
§ 15-509.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter
§ 15-510.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within
48 Hours
§ 15-511.   Penalty for Violation
§ 15-512.   Exceptions
Part 6
Off-Street Metered Parking
§ 15-601.   Metered Parking Lots Established
§ 15-602.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters
§ 15-603.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided
§ 15-604.   Parked Vehicles to Be Wholly Within Marked Spaces
§ 15-605.   Manner of Parking at Meters
§ 15-606.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful
§ 15-607.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter
§ 15-608.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at a Meter Showing Violation
§ 15-609.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter
§ 15-610.   Metered Parking Lots for Certain Types of Vehicles Only
§ 15-611.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within
48 Hours
§ 15-612.   Penalty for Violation
Part 6A
On-Street Unmetered 2 Hour Parking
§ 15-6A01.   Unmetered On-Street Parking Established
§ 15-6A02.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided
§ 15-6A03.   Unlawful to Park Overtime or When Spaces Are Signed as Closed
§ 15-6A04.   Unmetered Spaces for Certain Types of Vehicles
§ 15-6A05.   Manner of Parking
§ 15-6A06.   Penalty for Violation
Part 7
Off-Street Unmetered Parking
§ 15-701.   Unmetered Parking Lots Established
§ 15-702.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided
§ 15-703.   Unlawful to Park Overtime or When Lot Closed
§ 15-704.   Unmetered Lots for Certain Types of Vehicles
§ 15-705.   Manner of Parking
§ 15-706.   Parking on Rental Basis Only
§ 15-707.   Penalty for Violation
Part 8
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
§ 15-801.   Applicability and Scope
§ 15-802.   Authority to Remove and Impound
§ 15-803.   Tow Away Zones Designated
§ 15-804.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and
Storage
§ 15-805.   Payment of Towing and Storage Charges
§ 15-806.   Reclamation Costs
§ 15-807.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded
§ 15-808.   Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles
§ 15-809.   Penalty for Violation
§ 15-810.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles
Part 9
Snow and Ice Emergency
§ 15-901.   Declaration of Snow and Ice Emergency
§ 15-902.   Parking Prohibited, Driving Motor Vehicles Restricted on Snow Emer
gency Routes During Emergency
§ 15-903.   Snow Emergency Routes Designated
§ 15-904.   Penalty for Violation
Part 10
Regulation of Pedalcycles and Nonmotorized Vehicles
§ 15-1001.   Riding and Parking of Pedalcycles on Sidewalks Along Certain
Streets Prohibited
§ 15-1002.   Restrictions on Use of Pushcarts
§ 15-1003.   Skates, Skateboards, Coasters, Sleds and Other Toy Vehicles
Part 11
Pedestrian Regulations
§ 15-1101.   Pedestrians to Obey Traffic-Control Signs
§ 15-1102.   Pedestrian-Control Signal Locations Established
§ 15-1103.   Locations Where Pedestrian Crossing in Unmarked Crosswalks
Restricted
§ 15-1104.   Locations Where Pedestrians May Cross Only in Crosswalk
§ 15-1105.   Penalty for Violation
Part 12
Engine Suppression/Brake Retarder/Engine Brake
§ 15-1201.   Short Title
§ 15-1202.   Legislative Intent
§ 15-1203.   Engine Brake Prohibited
§ 15-1204.   Streets
§ 15-1205.   Emergency Situations
§ 15-1206.   Penalty
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 15-101.   Definitions and Interpretation.
   1.   Words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, except for sections or
parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.,
except that in this Chapter the word “street” may be used interchangeably with
the word “highway,” and shall have the same meaning as the word “highway” as
defined in the Vehicle Code.
   2.   The term “legal holidays” as used in this Chapter shall mean and
include: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   3.   In this Chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
   4.   Although the streets in the Borough run generally in a northeast-
southwest and a northwest-southeast direction, for the purpose of this Chapter,
Canton Street and the street running parallel or generally parallel to Canton
Street shall be deemed to run in a north-south direction, and Main Street and
the streets parallel or generally parallel to Main Street shall be deemed to
run in an east-west direction.
(A.O.)
§ 15-102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this Chapter, except where the law specifically authorizes less
formal action.
(A.O.)
§ 15-103.   Provisions to Be Continuation of Existing Regulations.
   The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately before the enactment of this
Chapter, are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(A.O.)
§ 15-104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations.
   1.   The Mayor shall have the following powers to regulate traffic and
parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      A.   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations.
      B.   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   2.   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations. Any person who
shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such regulation,
or who shall, move, remove, destroy, injure or deface any sign or marking
erected, posted or made to give notice of any such regulation, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this Chapter for a violation of such nature and, in case of a violation for
which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter,
to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs of prosecution.
(A.O.)
§ 15-105.    Experimental Regulations.
   The Borough Council may, from time to time by resolution, designate places
upon and along the highways in the Borough of Troy where, for a period of not
more than 90 days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions
and restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such
locations by proper signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions and
restrictions shall be effective as if they had been specified in this Chapter.
No person shall operate and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface any
sign or marking erected, posted or made by authority of this section. Any
person who shall violate any provision of this section, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this Chapter for a violation of such nature and, in case of a violation for
which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter,
to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs of prosecution; provided,
the purpose of this section is to allow for test and experimental determination
of the feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of
the Borough relative to traffic and parking.
(A.O.)
§ 15-106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction,
Maintenance or Special Events.
   1.   The Borough Council shall have authority to close any street or
specific part of a street to vehicular traffic and to place barriers or station
police officers at each end of the closed portion while construction or
maintenance work is under way or a special event is being conducted on the
closed portion. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any
such closed portion.
   2.   The Borough Council shall have authority to establish a restricted
traffic area upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under
way and to station flagmen at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic
area at any time when the flagman is displaying a sign directing that vehicle
to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not to
proceed.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, the words “assemblage” and
“procession” shall have the following meanings:
      Assemblage - a gathering of people without vehicles, which interferes
with the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street.
      Procession - a group of individuals, vehicles, animals and/or objects
moving along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of
traffic. A procession shall not include a funeral caravan or military convoy.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains a permit from the [Designated Official], which shall be issued without
fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 1 week in advance of the
day on which the assemblage is proposed to be held, but in any case where a
state-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall state the place
where and the date when the assemblage is to be held, the hour when the
assemblage may convene and the hour by which it shall have been completely
dispersed. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or to participate in any
assemblage unless the permit has been granted, or at any time or place other
than that authorized by the permit.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains a permit from the [Designated Official], which shall be issued without
fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 2 weeks in advance of
the day when the procession is proposed to be held, but in any case where the
state-designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit shall specify the
date on which the procession is to be held, the route to be followed by the
procession, the hour when and place where participants may commence to assemble
and form before the procession is under way, the time when the procession may
commence to move along its route, and the time by which the end of the
procession shall have been disbanded. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hold or to participate in any procession unless the permit shall have been
granted, or under any conditions as to time or route or otherwise than those
stated in the permit.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-108.   Authority of Police Officers.
   The police officers of the Borough of Troy are hereby authorized to direct
traffic on the highways of the Borough and at intersections thereof and to
otherwise enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
(A.O.)
§ 15-109.   Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices.
   1.   The Borough of Troy Police Department is hereby authorized to use all
speed timing devices for the determination of speed of a motor vehicle as are
approved or will be approved by the Department of Transportation of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylva nia, in accordance with 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3368.
   2.   This section authorizes the use of said devices upon all highways
within the Borough be they Borough, county or state highways, and does also
hereby elect to exercise all powers granted to “local authorities” under the
Vehicle Code of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6101 et seq.,
as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General
Assembly of Pennsylvania.
(A.O.)
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies at a higher speed than the
maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
Street Between Maximum Speed Limit
Street           Between                                 Maximum Speed Limit
Canton Street    Railroad Street and Main Street         25 mph
Canton Street    Eureka Drive and Railroad Street        35 mph
Center Street    Main Street and High Street             25 mph
Chestnut Street  Canton Street and west Borough line     25 mph
East Main Street East Borough line and Elmira Street     25 mph
Elmira Street    John Street and east Borough line       35 mph
Elmira Street    East Main Street and John Street        25 mph
Exchange Street  West Main Street and High Street        25 mph
High Street      Exchange Street and east Borough line   25 mph
John Street      High street and Elmira Street           25 mph
King Street      High Street and north Borough line      15 mph
King Street      Elmira Street and High Street           25 mph
Main Street      Elmira Street and West Main Street      25 mph
Newland Drive    Redington Avenue and west Borough line  25 mph
Paine Street     East Main Street and south Borough line 25 mph
Prospect Street  Chestnut Street and Redington Avenue    25 mph
Prospect Street  Fallbrook Road and Weigester Street     25 mph
Prospect Street  Weigester Street and Chestnut Street    15 mph
Railroad Street  Canton Street and Willow Street         25 mph
Redington Street Canton Street and west Borough line     25 mph
Weigester Street Canton Street and western terminus of   25 mph
                 Weigester Street
West Main Street Main Street and west Borough line       25 mph
Willow Street    Railroad Street and Canton Street       25 mph
Woodland Drive   Newland Drive and Rockwell Drive        25 mph
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than 5 miles per hour shall pay an additional fine
of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of 5 miles per hour over the maximum
speed limit.
(A.O.)
§ 15-202.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Bridges and Elevated
Structures.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established, as follows, on certain bridges
and elevated structures, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle on any such bridge or elevated structure at a higher speed than the
maximum prescribed for that bridge or elevated structure:
 
Bridge or Elevated Structure Location Maximum Speed Limit
[Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than 5 miles per hour shall pay an additional fine
of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of 5 miles per hour over the maximum
speed limit.
(A.O.)
§ 15-203.   Maximum Speed Limits Established for Certain Vehicles on Hazardous
Grades.
   1.   The following are declared to be hazardous grades and, upon any such
hazardous grade, no person shall drive a vehicle, having a gross weight in
excess of that referred to for that grade, in the direction stated for that
grade, at a speed in excess of that established in this section for that grade,
and, if so stated for a particular grade, the driver of every such vehicle
shall stop the vehicle before proceeding downhill:
 
               Direction of Maximum Gross                     Required to Stop
Street Between Travel       Weight        Maximum Speed Limit Before Proceeding
                                                              Downhill
[Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than 5 miles per hour shall pay an additional fine
of $2 for each mile in excess of 5 miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(A.O.)
§ 15-204.   Maximum Speed Limits Established in Parks.
   1.   A speed limit of 15 miles per hour is established on all streets and
roadways in the public parks maintained and operated by the Borough, except in
the following locations, where the lower maximums, as specified, shall apply:
 
Park Street Location Maximum Speed Limit
[Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than 5 miles per hour shall pay an additional fine
of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of 5 miles per hour over the maximum
speed limit.
(A.O.)
§ 15-205.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations.
   1.   At the following locations traffic signals as indicated below shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected), and traffic at those locations
shall be directed by those signals:
 
Location                                           Type of Signal
Canton Street at Croman School                     Flashing beacon
Main Street and Canton Street                      Traffic control signal
West Main Street at Martha Lloyd School Pedestrian Traffic control signal
Crossing
 
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who disobeys the directions of any traffic
signal, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-206.   Intersections Where Turn Prohibited on Red Signal.
   1.   The following are established as intersections where drivers of
vehicles headed in the direction or directions indicated are prohibited from
making a right turn (or a left turn from a one-way street into another one-way
street) on a steady red signal:
 
Intersection Vehicles Traveling On Facing
[Reserved]
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who violates any provision of this section,
upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-207.   One-Way Roadways Established.
   1.   The following are established as one-way roadways, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any one-way street other than in
the direction established for traffic on that street:
 
Street        From          To            Direction of Travel
Center Street Main Street   High Street   Northbound
High Street   Center Street King Street   Eastbound
King Street   High Street   Elmira Street Southbound
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-208.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle of the type
indicated traveling upon the first-named street at any of the following
intersections, in the direction or directions indicated in each case, to make a
left turn and/or a right turn into the second-named street, as indicated, at
any time when such a turn is prohibited by this section:
 
Vehicles Traveling Direction  of Not to Make Turn Into When Type of Vehicle
On                 Travel                                    Applicable To
[Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-209.   Right Turns Prohibited at Certain Intersections.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling upon the
first-named street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or
directions indicated in each case, to make other than a left turn, at any time
stated, both right turns and straight-across traffic being prohibited:
 
Vehicles Traveling On Direction of Travel Times Not To Make Right Turn Into or
                                                Travel Straight Across
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-210.   U-turns Prohibited at Certain Locations.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling upon any
of the following portions of streets, in the direction or directions indicated
for that street, to make a U-turn:
 
Street Portion Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-211.   No Passing Zones Established.
   1.   The following are established as no passing zones, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to overtake or pass another vehicle or
to drive on the left side of the roadway in any no passing zone:
 
Street      Direction of Travel Between
Main Street Westbound           A point 82 feet east of east line of Center
                                Street and traffic signal at Canton Street
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-212.   Through Highways Established.
   1.   The following highways are established as through highways, thus
authorizing stop or yield signs to be erected facing traffic approaching every
intersection with the through highway except for those intersections with
traffic signals, or with exceptions or modifications as indicated below. Every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop or yield sign authorized by this section
shall stop the vehicle or yield right-of-way as required by 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
3323(b), 3323(c) of the Vehicle Code, as the case may be, and shall not proceed
into or across the through highway until he or she has followed all applicable
requirements of that section of the law:
 
Highway                       Between
Pa. Route 14                  From Main Street to south Borough line
U.S. Route 6                  From Canton Street to west Borough line
U.S. Route 6 and Pa. Route 14 East Borough line to Canton Street
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-213.   Stop Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
15-212) are established as stop intersections, and official stop signs shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face
traffic approaching the second-named street (the intersecting or through
street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in the direction or
directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle
approaching the intersection on the first- named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by of the
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3323(b), and shall not proceed into or across the
second-named or intersecting or through street until he or she has followed all
applicable requirements of that section of the law.
Stop Street Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street              Intersecting or Through Direction of Travel
                         Street
Alley (also called Water East Main Street        Northbound
Street)
Ballard Street           Redington Avenue        Southbound
Ballard Street           West Main Street        Northbound
Case Street              Prospect Street         Westbound
Case Street              Canton Street           Eastbound
Chestnut Street (3-way)  Prospect Street         Eastbound
Chestnut Street          Canton Street           Eastbound
Courtney Drive           Newland Drive           Southbound
East Main Street         Main Street             Westbound
Eureka Drive             Canton Street           Westbound
Exchange Street          West Main Street        Southbound
High Street (upper)      King Street             Eastbound
High Street              Center Street           Eastbound
High Street              King Street             Westbound
High Street (lower)      King Street             Eastbound
John Street              High Street             Northbound
John Street              Elmira Street           Southbound
Junior High School exit  High Street             Westbound
Junior High School exit  King Street             Southbound
King Street              Elmira Street           Southbound
Newland Drive            Rockwell Drive          Westbound
Newland Drive            Redington Avenue        Eastbound
Paine Street             East Main Street        Northbound
Porter Road              Elmira Street           Southbound
Post Office exit         Canton Street           Westbound
Prospect Street (3-way)  Chestnut Street         Northbound and southbound
Prospect Street          Weigester Street        Northbound and southbound
Prospect Street          Fallbrook Road          Southbound
Prospect Street          Redington Avenue        Northbound
Railroad Street          Canton Street           Westbound
Redington Avenue         Canton Street           Eastbound
Rockwell Drive           Newland Drive           Southbound
Taylor Street            Elmira Street           Southbound
Water Street             East Main Street        Northbound
Weigester Street         Canton Street           Eastbound
Willow Street            Canton Street           Westbound
Woodland Drive           Newland Drive           Southbound
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-214.   Yield Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
15-212) are established as yield intersections, and official yield signs shall
be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to
face traffic approaching the second-named street (the through street) on the
first- named street (the yield street) in the direction or directions indicated
for that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection
on the first-named or yield street, in the direction indicated in each case,
shall slow down or stop the vehicle as required by 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(c) of
the Vehicle Code, and then yield the right-of-way as required by that
subsection of the Vehicle Code.
 
Yield Street             Through Street           Direction of Travel
Exchange Street          High Street              Southbound
High Street (upper side) High Street (lower side) Westbound
Newland Drive            Redington Avenue         Westbound
Rockwell Drive           Woodland Drive           Westbound
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-215.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Restricted on Public Lands.
   1.   No motor vehicle including a motorcycle, pedalcycle or minibike shall
be operated on any property owned by the Borough or any other public agency or
instrumentality within the Borough of Troy without the permission of the
property owner and a permit from the [Designated Official] of the Borough.
   2.   Any person who violates an provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-216.   Rotary Traffic Islands Established.
   1.   The following locations are designated as rotary traffic islands, and
every vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to
the right of the island:
 
Location
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who drives a vehicle otherwise than to the right of any
rotary traffic island shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-217.   Snowmobile Roads Designated.
   1.   The following roads and streets within the Borough are designated as
special snowmobile roads:
 
                       Used by Snow-mobiles Only
Street or Road Between When Closed to Vehicular  Shared With Vehicular Traffic
                       Traffic
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile on any
highway, street or road in the Borough other than as provided above; provided,
nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from operating a snowmobile
on any other street in the Borough:
      A.   As authorized by the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7721, for
emergency and bridge crossings and for direct crossing of streets or 2-lane
highways.
      B.   For special snowmobile events where authorized in advance and the
street is blocked off as provided in the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7723. Any
person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed in § 7752(a) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7752(a).
(A.O.)
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicle and Load
§ 15-301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle or combination having a
gross weight in excess of the maximum prescribed below for that bridge or
street or part of street, as the case may be:
Street or Bridge Maximum Gross Weight
Street or Bridge                       Maximum Gross Weight
Ballard Street                         3 Tons
East Main Street (Paine’s Mill Bridge15 Tons
Eureka Drive                           20 Tons
Prospect Street                        20 Tons
Railroad Street                        20 Tons
Redington Avenue                       17 Tons
Willow Street                          10 Tons
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(a), 4902(g-1) and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
$150 plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds
over the maximum allowable weight, and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-302.   Restrictions on Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or combination in violation of the
size restrictions prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of street:
 
Street or Bridge Between Restrictions
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g)(1) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(a), 4902(g)(1) and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
$75 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-303.   Restrictions as to Weight and Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets
and Bridges.
   1.   By reason of hazardous traffic conditions and other safety factors, by
authority granted by § 4902(b) of the Vehicle Code 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(b), it
shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or combination in
violation of the restriction prescribed below for that bridge or street or part
of street.
 
Street or Bridge Between Restrictions
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(b) and 4902(g)(2) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(b), 4902(g)(2), and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $500 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-304.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than a
passenger car on any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Street Between
   [Reserved]
 
      Provided, nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from driving
an emergency vehicle on any of those streets or parts of streets, or from
driving on any of those streets or parts of streets a truck or other commercial
vehicle making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located along that
street or part of a street.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
§ 15-401.   Vehicles to Be Parked Within Marked Spaces.
   Wherever a space is marked off on any street for the parking of an
individual vehicle, every vehicle parked there shall be parked wholly within
the lines bounding that space, and it shall be a violation of this Part for any
person to park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked otherwise.
(A.O.)
§ 15-402.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
Street Side Between
Street                   Side  Between
Ballard Street           Both  West Main Street and Redington Avenue
Canton Street            East  A point 30 feet south of Railroad Street and a
                               point 230 feet south of Railroad Street
Canton Street            West  Main Street and a point 24 feet south of Main
                               Street
Canton Street            East  Chestnut Street and Willow Street
                               Redington Avenue and a point 30 feet north of
                               Redington Avenue; a point 30 feet north of
Canton Street            West  Redington Avenue and a point 64 feet north of
                               that point, except for 3 metered spaces where
                               bus and truck parking only prohibited.
Canton Street            West  Redington Avenue and Fallbrook Street
Center Street            East  From High Street to a point 120 feet south
Center Street            West  Main Street and High Street
                               The area extending from the western most edge of
East Main Street         South the railroad right-of-way at the point where it
                               crosses East Main Street, east to the Borough
                               line
East Main Street         South Canton Street and a point 32 feet east of Canton
                               Street
East Main Street         South The bridge and a point 238 feet west of the
                               bridge
Elmira Street            South Porter Creek bridge and East Main Street
                               A point 160 feet southwesterly from Taylor
Elmira Street            North Street and extending to a point 290 feet
                               southwesterly of John Street
Elmira Street            North Porter Creek bridge to a point 86 feet west
Exchange Street          East  Main Street and a point 188 feet of Main Street
High Street (lower side) South Center Street and King Street
John Street              West  Elmira Street and High Street
Main Street              North From Exchange Street a distance of 62 feet
Main Street              North Center Street and Exchange Street
Railroad Street          West  Canton Street and a point 820 feet south of
                               Batterson Lane
Redington Avenue         South Canton Street and Prospect Street
Redington Avenue         North Canton Street and Ballard Street
West Main Street         South Ballard Street and a point feet 134 east of
                               Ballard Street
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours.
   Parking shall be prohibited in the following locations at all times on the
days and between the hours indicated in this section, as follows:
 
Street   Side Between                                                                     Days    Hours
All                                                                                               2:00
streets                                                                                           a.m.
within                                                                                  Daily   through
any C                                                                                             5:00
Business                                                                                          a.m.
District
                                                                                          Monday  6:00
Center   Both High Street and a point 500 feet south of High Street                       through a.m. to
Street                                                                                    Friday  6:00
                                                                                                  p.m.
                                                                                          Monday  8:00
John     West Elmira Street and a point 64 feet beyond Troy Hospital’s last driveway, a through a.m. to
Street        total distance north from Elmira Street of 335 feet                         Friday  5:00
                                                                                                  p.m.
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-404.   Parking of Trucks, Buses and Certain Other Vehicles Prohibited in
Certain Locations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to allow to remain parked,
on any of the following streets or parts of streets any vehicle other than a
passenger car (which shall not include any bus, motor home or passenger car
attached to a trailer of any kind):
 
Street                            Between
Any street within any residential  
district of the Borough
                                  The area extending from the end of the
Canton Street                     bridge crossing Fall Brook south, a
                                  distance of 64 feet
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-405.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours.
   No person shall park a vehicle, or allow it to remain parked, for longer
than the time indicated, in any of the following locations, at any time on the
days and between the hours indicated:
 
Street Side Between Days Hours
   [Reserved]
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-406.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited.
   The following are established as special purpose parking zones, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow it to remain parked in
any such zone except as specifically provided for that zone:
 
Street           Side  Location           Authorized Purpose or Vehicle
East Main Street North 370 E. Main Street Handicap
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-407.   Standing or Parking on Roadway for Loading or Unloading.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle (other
than a pedalcycle) on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of any street, except that standing or parking for the purpose of
loading or unloading persons or property shall be permitted on the following
named streets on Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
11:30 a.m. and between the hours of 1:30 p.m. and 4:00 p.m., and for no longer
than necessary for the loading or unloading.
 
Street Side Between
   [Reserved]
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-408.   Angle Parking Required on Portions of Certain Streets.
   1.   Only angle parking shall be permitted on the following portions of
streets:
 
Street           Side  Between
West Main Street North Exchange Street and a point 114 feet west of Exchange
                       Street
 
   2.   On all streets where angle parking is required, every vehicle parked at
the angle shall be parked with its front nearest the curb.
(A.O.)
§ 15-409.   Parking Prohibited on Portions of Certain Highways During Street
Sweeping Hours.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow the same
to remain parked, at any time between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on any of the
following portions of the highways of the Borough on the days hereby
respectively designated for street sweeping purposes:
 
Street Between Day
   [Reserved]
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-410.   Residential Permit Parking.
   1.   Findings and Purpose. The Borough finds that:
      A.   Certain residential areas in the Borough are subjected to commuter
vehicle parking, therefore depriving the residents of those areas of spaces in
which to park their own vehicles.
      B.   Those residential streets are also subjected to a high degree of
commuter traffic which substantially reduces the quality of the ambient air
level.
      C.   The establishment of a parking permit program for certain affected
areas should facilitate efficient movement of traffic by providing for parking
preference during certain hours of the day and days of the week. Therefore, the
Borough considers it to be in the interest of the people of the Borough to
provide for the establishment of a residential permit parking program to insure
primary access to available parking spaces by neighborhood residents and also
to provide a cleaner ambient air level.
   2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, words and terms listed in
this subsection, as follows, shall have the following meanings:
      Commuter Vehicle–a motor vehicle parked in a residential area by a person
not a resident of that residential area.
      Proprietor–a person who owns or leases real estate within a residential
area of which he or she is not a resident, but who owns or manages a business
enterprise or professional office maintained at that address. For the purpose
of this section, a proprietor shall be entitled to 1 parking permit for that
business or professional office address.
      Resident–a person who owns or leases real property within a residential
area and who maintains either a voting residence or bona fide occupancy, or
both, at that address.
      Residential Area–a contiguous area containing public highways or parts of
public highways primarily abutted by residential property or residential and
nonbusiness property (such as schools, parks, places of worship, hospitals and
nursing homes).
   3.   Criteria. The residential areas designated in subsection .4 of this
section are those deemed impacted and hence eligible for residential parking on
the basis of the following criteria:
      A.   During any period between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday, except legal holidays, the number of vehicles parked
(or standing), legally or illegally, on the streets in the area is equal to 70
percent or more of the legal, on-street parking capacity of the area. for the
purpose of this criterion, a legal parking space shall be 20 linear feet.
      B.   During the same period as specified in paragraph .A above, 10
percent or more of the vehicles parked (or standing) on the streets in the area
are not registered in the name of a person residing in the area. For the
purpose of this criterion, the latest available information from the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation regarding registration of motor
vehicles shall be used.
      Provided: in determining that a specific area identified as impacted and
eligible for residential permit parking is designated as a residential permit
parking area, the following factors are taken into consideration:
         (1)   The local and metropolitan needs with respect to clean air and
environment.
         (2)   The possibility of a reduction in total vehicle miles driven in
the Borough.
         (3)   The likelihood of alleviating traffic congestion, illegal
parking and related health and safety hazards.
         (4)   The proximity of public transportation to the residential area.
         (5)   The desire and need of the residents for residential permit
parking and their willingness to bear the administrative costs in connection
with it.
         (6)   The need for parking in excess of the residential permit parking
program in proximity to establishments located in the residential permit
parking area and used by the general public for religious, health or
educational purposes.
   4.   Designation of Residential Permit Parking Areas. The following are
designated as residential permit parking areas:
 
Area Bounded By and Including
   [Reserved]
 
   Signs shall be erected along the streets in each residential permit parking
area, indicating the days, hours, locations and conditions under which parking
shall be by permit only.
   5.   Application for Permit. Application for a residential parking permit
shall be made to the Chief of Police by the person desiring the permit, who
shall be only the owner or the driver of a motor vehicle who resides on or is a
proprietor of property immediately adjacent to a street or other location
within a residential parking permit area. A separate application shall be
required for each motor vehicle, and each application shall be accompanied by a
permit fee, in an amount as established by resolution of the Borough Council,
which shall be for the use of the Borough, to be applied to the cost of
administering the residential permit parking program. Each application shall
contain the following information: the name of the owner or the driver, as the
case may be, of the motor vehicle; the address of the resident or the
proprietor, as the case may be; the make, model and registration number of the
motor vehicle; and the driver number as taken from the applicant’s current
driver’s license. At the discretion of the Chief of Police, the applicant shall
be required, at the time of making application, to present his or her driver’s
license and the vehicle registration card.
   6.   Issuance of Permit. Upon receipt of the application and the permit fee,
and determination by him or her that the information upon the application shows
that the applicant is entitled to a residential parking permit, the Chief of
Police shall issue to the applicant a residential parking permit, which shall
be valid for the remainder of the calendar year. The permit shall display the
serial and registration numbers of the motor vehicles, the residential parking
area number and the expiration date. The permit shall be renewable annually
before the expiration date, upon making application for renewal and payment of
the permit fee. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any
person to display other than the current and valid permit while standing or
parking in a residential permit parking area at any time when those permits are
to be displayed.
   7.   Temporary and Exemption Parking Permits. Temporary parking permits may
be issued by the Chief of Police, upon payment of a fee in an amount as
established by resolution of the Borough Council, to bona fide visitors of
residents of a designated residential permit parking area, and exemption
parking permits may be issued, without payment of a fee, to handicapped
persons.
   8.   Responsibility of Permit Holder.
      A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, the
holder of a residential parking permit shall be permitted to stand or park a
motor vehicle operated by him or her in any designated residential parking area
during those times when parking of motor vehicles is permitted in that area.
While a vehicle for which a residential parking permit has been issued is so
parked, that permit shall be displayed so as to be clearly visible through the
windshield of the vehicle. A residential parking permit shall not guarantee or
reserve to the holder a parking space within a designated residential permit
parking area.
      B.   A residential parking permit shall not authorize its holder to stand
or park a motor vehicle in any place where or at any time when stopping,
standing or parking of motor vehicles is prohibited or set aside for other
specified types of vehicles, nor shall the permit exempt its holder from the
observance of any traffic or parking regulation other than residential permit
parking regulation or restriction.
      C.   No person other than the permit holder whose name appears on the
permit shall use a residential parking permit or display it on a vehicle
operated; any such use or display by a person other than the permit holder
shall constitute a violation of this section by the permit holder and by the
person who so used or displayed the parking permit.
      D.   It shall constitute a violation of this section for any person
falsely to represent himself or herself as eligible for a residential parking
permit or to furnish false information in an application to the Chief of Police
in order to obtain a residential parking permit.
   9.   Revocation of Permits. The Chief of Police shall have authority to
revoke the residential parking permit of any permit holder found to be in
violation of any provision of this section. Upon written notification to the
present holder of the revocation, the permit holder shall surrender the permit
to the Chief of Police. Failure to do so, when so requested, shall constitute a
violation of this section; provided, any person receiving such a notice may,
within 10 days after the date of the notice, appeal to the Borough Council for
a hearing on the revocation, and the decision of the Borough Council shall be
final.
(A.O.)
§ 15-411.   Penalties.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs; provided, it shall
be the duty of the police officers and of parking enforcement personnel of the
Borough to report to the appropriate official all violations of any provision
of this Part indicating, in each case, the section violated; the license number
of the vehicle involved in the violation; the location where the violation took
place; and any other facts that might be necessary in order to secure a clear
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation. The police officer
or other person making the report shall also attach to or place upon every such
vehicle a notice stating that the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part.
The notice shall contain instructions to the owner or driver of the vehicle
that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay the
sum of $_____ within _____ hours after the time of the notice, or if he or she
will place the sum of $_____ enclosed within the envelope provided in any of
the special parking fine boxes installed at various locations within the
Borough, that act will save the violator from prosecution and from payment of
the fine and costs prescribed in the first sentence of this section.
(A.O.)
Part 5
On-Street Metered Parking
§ 15-501.   Parking Meter Zone Established.
   Parking meter zones are established upon and along certain streets in the
Borough as follows:
Street Side Between Hours Maximum Parking Time
Street           Side  Between             Hours               Maximum Parking
                                                               Time
                       A point 24 feet
                       south of Main
Canton Street    West  Street and a point                     2 hours
                       300 feet south of
                       Main Street
                       A point 419 feet
                       south of Main
Canton Street    West  Street and a point                     2 hours
                       503 feet south of
                       Main Street
                                           9:00 a.m to 6:00
                       Main Street and a   p.m. Monday through
Canton Street    East  point 630 feet      Thursday and        2 hours
                       south               Saturday; 9:00 a.m.
                                           to 9:00 p.m. Friday
                       Main Street and a   9:00 a.m. to 6:00
Center Street    East  point 220 feet      p.m. Monday through 2 hours
                       north               Thursday and
                                           Saturday
                       1 space in front of
East Main Street East  Van Dyne Civic                         2 hours
                       Building
                       A point 32 feet
                       east of Canton
East Main Street South Street and a point                     2 hours
                       356 feet east of
                       Canton Street
                       A point 62 feet
                       east of the corner  9:00 a.m. to 6:00
                       of Van Dyne Civic   p.m. Monday through
East Main Street North Building and a      Thursday and        2 hours
                       point 142 feet east Saturday; 9:00 a.m.
                       of the corner of    to 9:00 p.m. Friday
                       Van Dyne Civic
                       Building
                       Main Street and a   9:00 a.m. to 9:00
Exchange Street  West  point 188 feet      p.m. Friday         2 hours
                       north
                       A point 188 feet    9:00 a.m. to 6:00
                       north of Main       p.m. Monday through
Exchange Street  East  Street and a point  Thursday and        2 hours
                       364 feet north      Saturday; 9:00 a.m.
                                           to 9:00 p.m. Friday
                       Center Street and a 9:00 a.m. to 6:00
Main Street      North point 200 feet      p.m. Monday through 2 hours
                       east, terminating   Thursday and
                       on Elmira Street    Saturday
                       A point 189 feet
                       west of Canton      9:00 a.m. to 9:00
West Main Street South Street and a point  p.m. Friday         2 hours
                       134 feet east of
                       Ballard Street
                       Exchange Street and 9:00 a.m. to 6:00
West Main Street North a point 200 feet    p.m. Monday through 2 hours
                       west                Thursday and
                                           Saturday
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-502.   Days and Hours Parking Meters in Operation and Parking Time Limits
Apply.
   Parking meters shall be operated by the deposit of a coin in the meter as
prescribed by §
15-505, and the parking rates for specified lengths of time, as well as the
maximum parking times prescribed in §
15-501, shall apply at all times between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Thursday and Saturday, and between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. Friday, in the parking meter zones listed in §
15-501; provided, however, the requirements of this Part as to parking time
limits and as to deposit of coins in meters shall not apply on Borough
holidays.
(A.O.)
§ 15-503.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters.
   1.   Parking meters installed in the parking meter zones established by §
15-501 of this Part shall be placed upon the curb or sidewalk, and immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces described in §
15-504 of this Part. Each parking meter shall be placed or set so as to show
that the parking space adjacent to that meter is or is not legally occupied.
Each parking meter installed shall indicate by a proper legend the legal
parking time established by the Borough and when the adjacent space is occupied
by a vehicle, the parking meter shall indicate on and by its dial and pointer
the duration of the period of legal parking and, on the expiration of that
period, shall indicate illegal parking or over-parking.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of §
15-501 shall be cited within 15 days of the violation and upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay of fine of not more than $10 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-504.   Parked Vehicles to Be Wholly Within Marked Spaces.
   Lines and/or markings shall be painted or placed upon the curb, sidewalk or
roadway adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of delineating the
parking space for which that meter shall be used. Every vehicle parked at any
parking meter shall be parked wholly within the lines or markings so placed and
applicable to that meter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for
any person to park a vehicle across any such line or marking, or to park a
vehicle in such a position that the vehicle is not wholly within the area
designated by those lines or markings.
(A.O.)
§ 15-505.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful.
   Whenever a vehicle is to be parked in any space adjacent to a parking meter,
at any time in the period of limited parking as prescribed by §
15-502 of this Part, the driver of the vehicle, upon entering the parking
space, shall immediately deposit, or cause to be deposited, in that parking
meter 1 or more proper coins of the United States of America as specified in
the legend on the parking meter. Upon the deposit of the coin or coins, and
placing the meter in operation, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by
the vehicle for the time indicated on the meter. If any vehicle shall remain in
any such parking space for any length of time that the meter shall indicate by
proper signal that the lawful parking time has expired, that vehicle shall be
considered as having been parked overtime, and the parking of a vehicle
overtime shall be a violation of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-506.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any parking meter
installed under the provisions of this Part any slug or other substitute for a
coin of the United States of America.
(A.O.)
§ 15-507.   Unlawful to Deposit Coin in Meter to Extend Parking Time Beyond
Legal Limit.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for any person to deposit
or cause to be deposited in any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this Part any coin for the purpose of increasing or extending the parking time
of any vehicle beyond the legal parking time of 15 minutes in any 15 minute
parking meter zone, 1-1/2 hour in any 1-1/2 hour parking meter zone, 1 hour in
any 1 hour parking meter zone, or 2 hours in any 2 hour parking meter zone.
(A.O.)
§ 15-508.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at Meter Showing Violation.
   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part for any person to permit
a vehicle to remain in a parking space adjacent to a parking meter installed
under this Part when that meter displays a signal indicating that the vehicle
has already been parked there beyond the period of time prescribed for that
parking space, or the time for which a coin or coins was deposited in that
meter for the parking of that vehicle.
(A.O.)
§ 15-509.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter.
   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to
deface, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness
of any parking meter installed under the provisions of this Part; provided,
nothing in this section shall apply to the servicing or opening of parking
meters by officers, employees or police officers of the Borough under the
direction of the Mayor or Borough Council.
(A.O.)
§ 15-510.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within
48 Hours.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the police officers and parking enforcement
personnel of the Borough, acting in accordance with the directions of the Chief
of Police, to report:
      A.   The number of each parking meter that indicates that a vehicle
occupying the adjacent parking space is, or has been, parked in violation of
any provision of this Part.
      B.   The date and hour of the violation.
      C.   The license number of the vehicle.
      D.   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
under standing of the circumstances attending the violation.
   2.   The police officer or other person making the report shall also place
on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that
the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part, and instructing the owner or
driver that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief of Police and
pay, for the use of the Borough, the sum of $_____ within _____ hours after the
time of the notice, or will place the sum of $_____ enclosed within the
envelope provided, in any of the special parking fine boxes installed at
various locations within the Borough within the time limit, that act will save
the violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
15-511 of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-511.   Penalty for Violation.
   1.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, with the exception
of §
15-509, and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
15-510, shall be cited within 15 days of the violation and, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of §
15-509 of this Part, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $1,000 and costs and, in default of payment of fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(A.O.)
§ 15-512.   Exceptions.
   1.   By resolution, the Borough Council may temporarily suspend the
provisions of this Part requiring coin deposit in meters and establishing a
maximum parking time at meters.
   2.   The Borough shall have authority to establish no parking or special-
purpose parking zones within any parking meter zone, and to remove parking
meters from those areas as previously installed there, and the provisions of
this Part shall not apply in those areas where no-parking or special-purpose
parking is in effect.
(A.O.)
Part 6
Off-Street Metered Parking
§ 15-601.   Metered Parking Lots Established.
   1.   The following are established as the metered parking lots established
by this Borough:
 
Lot Location Rate Maximum Parking Time Days in Operation Hours in Operation
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Provided, the parking meters in the metered lots shall be in operation,
the parking lots shall be open for parking and the provisions of this Part
regulating the operation of parking meters and establishing parking time limits
shall be in force on the days and between the hours prescribed for the
individual lots. But, on Sundays and legal holidays, no parking time limit
shall apply and the placing of coins in meters shall not be required.
(A.O.)
§ 15-602.   Placement and Characteristics of Parking Meters.
   Parking meters installed in the parking lots shall be placed immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces that shall be marked off and
maintained in the lots. for each parking meter there shall be a clear
indication, through use of a directional arrow, or an identification as to
number with the parking space, to show which individual parking space it
serves. Each parking meter shall indicate by a proper legend the parking rate
and the maximum parking time established by §
15-601, and, when the parking space is occupied and the parking meter put into
operation by the insertion of 1 or more coins, the parking meter shall indicate
on and by its dial and pointer the duration of legal parking, and, upon the
expiration of that period, shall indicate illegal parking or over-parking.
(A.O.)
§ 15-603.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided.
   The Borough Council, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and
suitable locations in any 1 or more of the metered parking lots, reserved
parking spaces for handicapped, and shall designate those spaces by appropriate
signs. It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to
park in any such reserved parking space any vehicle unless that vehicle bears
or displays either a “handicapped registration plate,” a “handicapped parking
placard,” a “disabled veteran registration plate” or a “disabled veteran
placard.”
(A.O.)
§ 15-604.   Parked Vehicles to Be Wholly Within Marked Spaces.
   Lines and/or markings shall be painted or placed upon the surface of the
metered parking lots, adjacent to each parking meter, for the purpose of
delineating the parking space for which that meter shall be used. Every vehicle
parked adjacent to any parking meter shall be parked wholly within the lines or
markings so placed and applicable to that meter. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this Part for any person:
      A.   To park a vehicle across any such line or marking.
      B.   To park a vehicle in such a position that the vehicle shall not be
within the area so delineated by the lines or markings.
      C.   To park a vehicle elsewhere in any such lot that in an individual
parking space adjacent to a parking meter.
(A.O.)
§ 15-605.   Manner of Parking at Meters.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any metered parking
lot:
      A.   Otherwise than with the front of the parked vehicle nearest to the
parking meter applicable to that vehicle.
      B.   With any Part of the vehicle touching the meter post or head or the
raised base or barrier on which meters are erected.
(A.O.)
§ 15-606.   Coin Deposit in Meter; Overtime Parking Unlawful.
   Whenever a vehicle is to be parked in any metered parking lot, at any time
when the lot is open for use and the meters are to be in operation, the driver
of the vehicle, upon entering the parking space, shall immediately deposit, or
cause to be deposited, in the proper parking meter, 1 or more proper coins of
the United States of America as specified in the legend on the parking meter.
Upon the deposit of the coin or coins, and placing the meter in operation, the
parking space may be lawfully occupied by the vehicle for the time indicated on
the meter. If any vehicle remains in any such parking space for such length of
time that the meter indicates that the lawful parking time has expired, that
vehicle shall be considered as being parked overtime, and the parking of a
vehicle overtime shall be a violation of this Part; provided, every hour that a
vehicle remains parked at a meter showing a violation shall constitute a
separate violation of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-607.   Unlawful to Deposit Substitute for Coin in Meter.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any parking meter
installed under the provisions of this Part any slug or other substitute for a
coin of the United States of America.
(A.O.)
§ 15-608.   Unlawful to Remain Parked at a Meter Showing Violation.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for any person to permit a
vehicle to remain in a parking space adjacent to a parking meter installed
under this Part when that meter displays a signal indicating that the vehicle
has already been parked there beyond the period of time prescribed for that
parking space, or the time for which a coin or coins was deposited in that
meter for the parking of that vehicle.
(A.O.)
§ 15-609.   Unlawful to Tamper with Meter.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for any person to deface,
tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any
parking meter installed under the provisions of this Part; provided, nothing in
this section shall apply to the servicing or opening of parking meters by
officers, employees or police officers of the Borough under the direction of
the Mayor or Borough Council.
(A.O.)
§ 15-610.   Metered Parking Lots for Certain Types of Vehicles Only.
   The metered parking lots established by this Part shall be for the use of
passenger cars, passenger vans and pickup trucks only, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to park any other type of vehicle in any of those lots.
(A.O.)
§ 15-611.   Ticketing of Vehicles Parked Unlawfully; Effect of Payment Within
48 Hours.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the police officers and parking enforcement
personnel of the Borough, acting in accordance with the direction of the Chief
of Police, to report:
      A.   The number of each parking meter that indicates that a vehicle
occupying the adjacent parking space is, or has been, parked in violation of
any provision of this Part.
      B.   The date and hour of the violation.
      C.   The license number of the vehicle.
      D.   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
under standing of the circumstances attending the violation.
   2.   The police officer or other person making the report shall also place
on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle that
the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part, and instructing the owner or
driver that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief of Police and
pay, for the use of the Borough, the sum of $_____ within _____ hours after the
time of the notice, or will place the sum of $_____ enclosed within the
envelope provided, in any of the special parking fine boxes installed at
various locations within the Borough, within that time limit, that act will
save the violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
15-612 of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-612.   Penalty for Violation.
   1.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, with the exception
of §
15-609, and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
15-611, shall be cited within 15 days of the violation and, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of §
15-609, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 and costs and, in default of payment of fine and costs, to imprisonment
for not more than 30 days.
(A.O.)
Part 6A
On-Street Unmetered 2 Hour Parking
§ 15-6A01.   Unmetered On-Street Parking Established.
   The following are established as the un-metered (2-hour limit) street
parking operated by the Borough:
Street From To Days Times
Street             From           To                 Days      Times
Canton St. (West   Redington Ave. Rt. 0006           Mon.—Fri6:00 a.m.—5:00
side)                                                          p.m.
Canton St. (East   Railroad St.   Rt. 0006           Mon.—Fri6:00 a.m.—5:00
side)                                                          p.m.
West Main St.      Ballard St.    Rt. 0014           Mon.—Fri6:00 a.m.—5:00
(South side)                                                   p.m.
West Main St.      Ballard St.    Rt. 0014           Mon.—Fri6:00 a.m.—5:00
(North side)                                                   p.m.
Main St.           Rt. 0014       East Main St.      Mon.—Fri6:00 a.m.—5:00
(South side)                                                   p.m.
Main St.           Fenner Ave.    To a point 500 ft.          6:00 a.m.—5:00
(North side)                      east                         p.m.
Fenner Ave. (East  Main St.       To a point 500 ft.          6:00 a.m.—5:00
side only)                        north                        p.m.
Exchange St. (West West Main St.  To a point 500 ft.          6:00 a.m.—5:00
side only)                        north                        p.m.
 
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 1)
§ 15-6A02.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided.
   The Borough, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and suitable
locations in 1 or more of the un-metered parking areas, reserved parking spaces
for handicapped and shall designate those spaces by appropriate signs. It shall
be unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to park in any such
reserved space, any vehicle unless that vehicle bears or displays either: a
“handicapped registration plate,” a “handicapped parking placard,” a “disabled
veteran registration plate” or a “disabled veteran placard;” provided, all
provisions, requirements and restrictions contained in the other sections of
this Part shall apply to vehicles lawfully parked in reserved parking spaces
for handicapped.
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 2)
§ 15-6A03.   Unlawful to Park Overtime or When Spaces Are Signed as Closed.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle, or allow a vehicle to
remain parked in any un-metered designated space:
   1.   For longer than the maximum parking time prescribed by §
15-6A01 of this Part; or
   2.   At any time when the space is signed as closed to public use.
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 3)
§ 15-6A04.   Unmetered Spaces for Certain Types of Vehicles.
   The un-metered parking spaces established by §
15-6A01 of this Part shall be for the use of passenger cars, passenger vans,
motorcycles and pickup trucks only, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
park any other kind or class of vehicle in any such space.
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 4)
§ 15-6A05.   Manner of Parking.
   Every vehicle parked in an un-metered parking space shall be parked wholly
within the lines bounding or marking the individual parking space. It shall be
unlawful for any person:
   1.   To park a vehicle in a any space other than a 2-hour public space;
   2.   To park a vehicle otherwise than as required by this section; or
   3.   To park a vehicle elsewhere than in properly lined individual parking
space.
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 5)
§ 15-6A06.   Penalty for Violation.
   1.   The police officer or other appointed public official, making a report
of a violation shall also place on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the
owner or driver of that vehicle that the vehicle was parked in violation of
this Part, and instructing the owner or driver that if he or she will report to
the Borough Administrative Office and pay, for use of the Borough, the sum of
$10 within 48 hours after the time of the notice, that act will save the
violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine subscribed in §
15-6A02. Each day a vehicle remains in violation of this Part is a distinct and
separate violation.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part and who fails to pay
the fine set forth in the subsection .1 above, shall be cited within 15 days of
the violation and upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$25 and cost.
(Ord. 12-03, 6/19-2012, § 6)
Part 7
Off-Street Unmetered Parking
§ 15-701.   Unmetered Parking Lots Established.
   The following are established as the unmetered parking lots operated by the
Borough:
 
Lot Location Maximum Parking Time Days in Operation Hours in Operation
   [Reserved]
(A.O.)
§ 15-702.   Reserved Parking Spaces for Handicapped May Be Provided.
   The Borough Council, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and
suitable locations in 1 or more of the unmetered parking lots, reserved parking
spaces for handicapped, and shall designate those spaces by appropriate signs.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Part for any person to park in any
such reserved parking space any vehicle unless that vehicle bears or displays
either a “handicapped registration plate,” a “handicapped parking placard,” a
“disabled veteran registration plate,” or a “disabled veteran placard;”
provided, all provisions, requirements and restrictions contained in the other
sections of this Part shall apply to vehicles lawfully parked in reserved
parking spaces for handicapped.
(A.O.)
§ 15-703.   Unlawful to Park Overtime or When Lot Closed.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow a vehicle
to remain parked in any unmetered parking lot:
      A.   For longer than the maximum parking time prescribed by §
15-701.
      B.   At any time when the lot is not in operation and is closed to public
use.
(A.O.)
§ 15-704.   Unmetered Lots for Certain Types of Vehicles.
   The unmetered parking lots established by §
15-701 shall be for the use of passenger cars, passenger vans and pickup trucks
only, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any other kind or class
of vehicle in any such lot.
(A.O.)
§ 15-705.   Manner of Parking.
   Every vehicle parked in an unmetered parking lot shall be parked wholly
within the lines bounding or marking the individual parking space assigned to
that vehicle, and shall be parked headed into the parking space. It shall be
unlawful for any person:
      A.   To park a vehicle in a space not rented by him or her.
      B.   To park a vehicle otherwise than as required by this section.
      C.   To park a vehicle elsewhere than in an individual parking space, the
prohibited areas including, but not limited to, the access and exit driveways
and turning and maneuvering spaces.
(A.O.)
§ 15-706.   Parking on Rental Basis Only.
   The parking spaces in the unmetered parking lots shall be available for
parking on a monthly rental basis only. The rental fee shall be fixed by the
Borough Council pursuant to a resolution and shall be for a calendar month or
the part of a calendar month remaining after the rental arrangements are made.
The rental fee shall be paid in advance to the Borough Secretary for the use of
the Borough, and after the first month shall be automatically renewable until
the renter notifies the Borough that he or she wishes to terminate the rental
arrangements. At any time, however, the Borough may, by amending §
15-701 of this Part, discontinue provision of a specific unmetered parking lot
or a portion of the parking spaces in any such lot, or may change any unmetered
parking lot, or part of an unmetered parking lot, to a metered parking lot or
to metered parking spaces. The rental parking spaces shall be assigned by the
Borough Secretary. The name of the renter of a parking space and/or the numbers
and/or letters on the registration tag of the vehicle entitled to be parked
there shall be posted by the Borough at the rental space or shall be painted on
the surface of that parking space.
(A.O.)
§ 15-707.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Part, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs; provided, it shall
be the duty of the police officers and of parking enforcement personnel of the
Borough to report to the appropriate official all violations of any provision
of this Part, indicating, in each case, the section violated; the license
number of the vehicle involved in the violation; the location where the
violation took place; and, any other facts that might be necessary in order to
secure a clear understanding of the circumstances attending the violation. The
police officer or other person making the report shall also attach to or place
upon every such vehicle a notice stating that the vehicle was parked in
violation of this Part. The notice shall contain instructions to the owner or
driver of the vehicle that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief
of Police and pay for the use of the Borough, pay the sum of $ ______ within
______ hours after the time of the notice, or if he or she will place the sum
of $ ______ enclosed within the envelope provided, in any of the special
parking fine boxes installed at various locations within the Borough, that act
will save the violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine and costs
prescribed in the first sentence of this section.
(A.O.)
Part 8
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
§ 15-801.   Applicability and Scope.
   This Part is enacted under authority of § 6109(a)(22) of the Vehicle Code,
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(a)(22), and gives authority to the Borough to remove and
impound those vehicles which are parked in a tow-away zone and in violation of
parking regulations of this Chapter. Vehicles which have been abandoned (as
defined by the Vehicle Code) or which are parked in such a manner as to
interfere with traffic or pose a hazard to others may be towed under the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(A.O.)
§ 15-802.   Authority to Remove and Impound.
   The Borough shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally;
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in §
15-801; provided, no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded except in
strict adherence to the provisions of this Part or the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(A.O.)
§ 15-803.   Tow Away Zones Designated.
   The following designated streets and/or parking lots are hereby established
as tow- away zones. Signs shall be posted to place the public on notice that
their vehicles may be towed for violation of Borough parking regulations:
 
Street Side Between Parking Lot
   [Reserved]
(A.O.)
§ 15-804.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and
Storage.
   Removal and impounding of vehicles under this Part shall be done only by
“approved storage garages” that shall be designated from time to time by the
Borough Council. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the Borough Council
that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount satisfactory
to the Borough Council as sufficient to indemnify owners of impounded vehicles
against loss or damage to those vehicles while in the custody of the garage
keeper for the purpose of towing or storage. The approved storage garage shall
submit to the Borough Council its schedule of charges for towing and storage of
vehicles under this Part and, when the schedule is approved by Borough Council,
those charges shall be adhered to by the approved storage garage; no different
schedule of charges shall be demanded of or collected from any person whose
vehicle is removed or impounded under this Part by any approved storage garage.
The Borough Council shall delete from its list of approved storage garages any
garage that makes any unapproved charge in connection with any vehicle removed
or impounded under this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-805.   Payment of Towing and Storage Charges.
   The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or
driver of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation
of the provision of this Part for which the vehicle was removed or impounded.
(A.O.)
§ 15-806.   Reclamation Costs.
   In order to reclaim his or her vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and
storage costs plus a $50 fee, of which $25 shall be transferred to the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle
was taken.
(A.O.)
§ 15-807.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded.
   The Borough shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this Part and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or
the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place of
storage of the vehicle.
(A.O.)
§ 15-808.   Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this Part or the Vehicle
Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person for the
time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and
intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(A.O.)
§ 15-809.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part, upon conviction
thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 together with all costs of
disposing of the vehicle under the provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. §§
7301 et seq.
(A.O.)
§ 15-810.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles.
   If after a period of 15 days the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed, a
report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of the Vehicle
Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7311 by the person having legal custody of the vehicle. If
the vehicle has not been claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be transferred
to a licensed salvor who will then be responsible for filing the proper reports
and disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 73 of
the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa C.S.A. §§ 7301 et seq.).
(A.O.)
Part 9
Snow and Ice Emergency
§ 15-901.   Declaration of Snow and Ice Emergency.
   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic and to combat the hazards of
snow and ice on the snow emergency routes named in §
15-903 of this Part, the [Designated Official], in his or her discretion, may
declare a snow and ice emergency (designated in this Part as a “snow
emergency”). Information on the existence of a snow emergency shall be given by
the Borough through radio, newspaper or other available media, and information
on the termination of the emergency may be given by use of the same media.
(A.O.)
§ 15-902.   Parking Prohibited, Driving Motor Vehicles Restricted on Snow
Emergency Routes During Emergency.
   After any snow emergency is declared, it shall be unlawful at any time
during the continuance of the emergency for any person:
      A.   To park a motor vehicle or to allow that vehicle to remain parked
anywhere on any snow emergency route designated in §
15-903.
      B.   To drive any motor vehicle on any such snow emergency route unless
that vehicle is equipped with snow tires or chains.
(A.O.)
§ 15-903.   Snow Emergency Routes Designated.
   The following are designated as snow emergency routes:
 
Street Between
   [Reserved]
(A.O.)
§ 15-904.   Penalty for Violation.
   1.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under §
15-901 of this Part, a person shall park a motor vehicle or allow a motor
vehicle to remain parked anywhere upon a snow emergency route, that person
shall be guilty of a violation of this Part and, upon conviction, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs.
   2.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under §
15-901 of this Part, a person shall drive a motor vehicle upon a snow emergency
route, without having that vehicle equipped with snow tires or chains, that
person shall be guilty of a violation of this Part, and, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 and costs.
(A.O.)
Part 10
Regulation of Pedalcycles and Nonmotorized Vehicles
§ 15-1001.   Riding and Parking of Pedalcycles on Sidewalks Along Certain
Streets Prohibited.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or to park a pedalcycle on
the sidewalk along the following portions of the streets in the Borough:
 
Street           Side Between
Canton Street    Both Main Street and Redington Avenue
East Main Street Both Canton Street and Courthouse Square
West Main Street Both Ballard Street and Canton Street
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-1002.   Restrictions on Use of Pushcarts.
   1.   The word “pushcart,” as used in this section, shall mean a vehicle,
including a pedalcycle, propelled solely by human power, and used or intended
for use for the display, transport, exhibit or sale of goods, wares or
merchandise.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to propel a pushcart upon any
sidewalk in any business district except as necessary to move the pushcart to a
location from which it is to be loaded or unloaded or from which goods, wares
or merchandise are to be sold or dispensed under permit from the Borough
Council as provided in subsection .3 of this section.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a pushcart upon any
sidewalk except for the purpose of selling or dispensing from that pushcart
goods, wares or merchandise to passersby under permit from the Borough Council.
Every such permit shall be issued to the person making application for the
permit, upon payment of a fee, which shall be for the use of the Borough set by
the Borough Council pursuant to a resolution. The permit shall be granted to
the applicant, upon payment of the fee, and upon the applicant signing an
agreement with the Borough Council that he or she shall be bound by the
conditions imposed by Borough Council and made a part of the permit, dealing
with the following matters:
      A.   Restricting or limiting the parking of the pushcart to 1 or more
stated locations upon the sidewalk and to stated days and hours at each
location.
      B.   Stating requirements to be adhered to in connection with the
disposal of garbage and refuse resulting from the operations carried on.
      C.   Requiring that there be no violation of any law, ordinance or
regulation pertaining to health, sanitation and the handling of food or drink.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, or any condition
of any permit granted under this section, upon conviction, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(A.O.)
§ 15-1003.   Skates, Skateboards, Coasters, Sleds and Other Toy Vehicles.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on a sled upon any sidewalk
in the Borough, or upon any roadway unless that roadway is on a portion of a
street blocked off for sledding by authority of §§ 15-105 or 15-215; provided,
nothing in this subsection shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a sled, with
or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in roller-skating,
skateboarding or to ride upon or propel any coaster or other toy vehicle upon:
      A.   Any street except in order to cross the roadway.
      B.   Any sidewalk located in a business district, except that nothing in
this subsection shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a coaster or other toy
vehicle, with or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(A.O.)
Part 11
Pedestrian Regulations
§ 15-1101.   Pedestrians to Obey Traffic-Control Signs.
   At all locations in the Borough where official traffic-control signals are
installed, pedestrians, except where directed otherwise by pedestrian-control
signals installed under §
15-1102 of this Part, shall obey the directions of those traffic-control
signals, as follows:
      A.   When facing a green signal, a pedestrian may proceed across the
roadway within a crosswalk.
      B.   When facing a steady yellow signal, a pedestrian shall not start to
cross the roadway.
      C.   When facing a steady red signal, a pedestrian shall not enter the
roadway.
(A.O.)
§ 15-1102.   Pedestrian-Control Signal Locations Established.
   1.   At the following locations, official pedestrian-control signals shall
be erected (or are ratified if previously erected):
 
Street           Location
West Main Street Pedestrian crosswalk at Martha Lloyd School
 
   2.   Every pedestrian facing a steady or flashing “Don’t Walk” signal shall
obey the directions of that signal, as follows:
      A.   When facing a steady “Don’t Walk” signal, a pedestrian shall not
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian
who has partially completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal should
proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the “Don’t Walk” signal is showing.
      B.   When facing a flashing “Don’t Walk” signal a pedestrian shall not
start to cross the roadway in the direction of the indication, but any
pedestrian who has partly completed crossing during the “Walk” indication
should proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone.
      Any pedestrian who fails to obey the directions of a “Don’t Walk” signal,
as indicated above, shall be guilty of an offense and a violation of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-1103.   Locations Where Pedestrian Crossing in Unmarked Crosswalks
Restricted.
   Except when authorized by a police officer or other appropriately attired
person authorized to direct, control or regulate traffic, it shall be unlawful
for any pedestrian to cross the roadway at any of the following streets, at the
intersection with that street indicated.
 
Street Intersection  Direction of Travel
         [Reserve 
 
(A.O.)
§ 15-1104.   Locations Where Pedestrians May Cross Only in Crosswalk.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian:
   A.   To cross any roadway in a business district within the Borough except
in a crosswalk.
   B.   To cross the roadway, in any of the following portions of streets in
the Borough, except in a crosswalk.
Street Location
Street           Location
Canton Street    Intersection with Main Street
East Main Street Intersection with Canton Street
East Main Street Base of triangular junction with Elmira Street
Elmira Street    Base of triangular junction with East Main Street
Main Street      East corner of Center Street
Railroad Street  Intersection with Canton Street
Redington Avenue Intersection with Canton Street
West Main Street Intersection with Canton Street
West Main Street At pedestrian signal at Martha Lloyd School
 
   Provided, nothing in this section shall permit any pedestrian to cross in a
crosswalk at any location where that crossing is prohibited by §
15-1102 of this Part.
(A.O.)
§ 15-1105.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any pedestrian who violates any provision of this Part shall be guilty of a
summary offense and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $5
and costs.
(A.O.)
Part 12
Engine Suppression/Brake Retarder/Engine Brake
§ 15-1201.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known as the Borough “Engine Suppression/Brake Retarder/
Engine Brake Ordinance.”
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 1)
§ 15-1202.   Legislative Intent.
   The Borough Council finds as a fact that the operation of an engine brake or
an engine suppression device or a compression break on a gasoline powered or
diesel powered motor vehicle not equipped with exhaust mufflers, or equipped
with defective or modified exhaust mufflers, so as to create excessive noise
through the use of said engine brake or engine suppression device or
compression brake, adversely affects the public health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the Borough and, therefore, is a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 2)
§ 15-1203.   Engine Brake Prohibited.
   No gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicles shall be operated on
the streets, roads, alleys or highways listed below within the Borough
utilizing, in said operation, an engine brake, engine suppression devise or
compression brake, without exhaust mufflers, or with defective of modified
exhaust mufflers permitting excessive noise to be created by said motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 3)
§ 15-1204.   Streets.
   The streets subject to this prohibition shall be as follows:
      A.   State Route 0014, in both directions, from the southern Troy Borough
line to US Route 0006.
      B.   U.S. Route 0006, in both directions, from the eastern Troy Borough
line in a westerly direction, to a point 95 feet west of the State Route 0014
intersection.
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 4)
§ 15-1205.   Emergency Situations.
   This Part shall not apply to emergency driving situations requiring the
utilization of an engine brake to protect the safety and property of residents
of the Borough, other motor vehicle operators, pedestrians, and the operator
and passengers of the motor vehicle involved in said emergency situation.
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 5)
§ 15-1206.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating any of the
provisions of this Part shall, upon summary conviction before a District
Magistrate having jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $50
or more than $300 and costs of prosecution, and in default of the payment
thereof, shall be sentenced to undergo imprisonment in any county jail for a
period not to exceed 10 days.
(Ord. 12-02, 6/19/2012, § 6)
Chapter 16
[Reserved]
Chapter 17
[Reserved]
Chapter 18
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Part 1
Sewer Connections
A.   Definitions
§ 18-101.   Definitions
B.   Use of Public Sewers Required
§ 18-111.   Connection to Sewer
§ 18-112.   Sanitary Sewage and Industrial Wastes
§ 18-113.   Sanitary Sewage and Industrial Wastes Placed on Public or Private
Property; Discharges into Natural Outlets
§ 18-114.   Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Sinkholes and Septic Tanks
§ 18-115.   Connection of Receptacles
§ 18-116.   Notice to Connect
§ 18-117.   New Connection
C.   Laterals and Connections
§ 18-121.   Permit
§ 18-122.   Application for Permit
§ 18-123.   Conditions for Connection
§ 18-124.   Grouping
§ 18-125.   Costs and Expenses
§ 18-126.   Connection at Main
D.   Building Sewers and Connections to Sewers
§ 18-131.   Existing House Sewer Line
§ 18-132.   Discharges Into Sewer System
§ 18-133.   Inspection and Approval
§ 18-134.   Maintenance
§ 18-135.   Excavation
§ 18-136.   Unsatisfactory Conditions
§ 18-137.   Additional Rules and Regulations Relating to Connections
§ 18-138.   Sewer Rentals
§ 18-139.   Harmful Discharges
§ 18-140.   Plan Approval
§ 18-141.   Regulating Devices
§ 18-142.   Observation, Measurement and Sampling of Wastewaters
§ 18-143.   Industrial Users
§ 18-144.   Interceptors
§ 18-145.   Other Discharges
§ 18-146.   Additional Rules and Regulations for Operation of Sewer System
§ 18-147.   Special Agreement
§ 18-148.   Users Outside the Borough
E.   Enforcement
§ 18-151.   Penalty
§ 18-152.   Disconnection of Users Outside the Borough
§ 18-153.   Fines and Costs
F.   Declaration of Purpose
§ 18-161.   Declaration of Purpose
§ 18-162.   Fees, Penalties and Charges
Part 2
Wastewater Treatment
A.   Definitions
§ 18-201.   Definitions
B.   Sewer Rentals or Charges
§ 18-211.   Rates and Classifications
C.   Billing
§ 18-221.   Billings
D.   Measurements, Tests and Analyses
§ 18-231.   Measurements, Tests and Analyses
§ 18-232.   Samples
§ 18-233.   Frequency of Sampling, Measuring and Testing
§ 18-234.   Access
E.   Liens for Sewer Rentals; Filing and Collection of Liens
§ 18-241.   Liens; Collection of Liens
Part 1
Sewer Connections
A.   Definitions.
§ 18-101.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning
of terms and phrases used in this Part shall be as follows:
   Authority–Troy Borough Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania municipality
authority.
   Borough–Borough of Troy, Bradford County, Pennsylvania, a political
subdivision, acting by and through its Borough Council or, in appropriate
cases, by and through its authorized representatives.
   Commercial user–all retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private business and service establishments.
   Improved property–any property located within the sewer service area upon
which there is erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which
structure sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes shall be or may be
discharged.
   Industrial user–shall include any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of
publicly owned treatment works which is identified in the “Standard Industrial
Classification Manual,” 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions: Division A–Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing; Division B–Mining; Division D–Manufacturing; Division
E–Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary; and Division
I–Services.
   Industrial wastes–any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
ejected or escaping in the course of any industrial, manufacturing, trade or
business process, or in the course of the development, recovery or processing
of natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Lateral–that part of the sewer system extending from a sewer main to sewer
drainage system of any structure.
   Owner–any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of any improved property.
   Person–any individual, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   Residential user– any contributor to the Borough’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel or real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   Sanitary sewage–normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property.
   Sewer–any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system, used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   Sewer system–all facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes, situate in this Borough or in adjacent townships, owned by the
Authority and leased to this Borough for operation and use.
   Street or highway–includes any highway, street, road, lane, alley, court or
public square.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 1.01)
B.   Use of Public Sewers Required.
§ 18-111.   Connection to Sewer.
   The owner of any improved property abutting on or adjoining any street or
highway in which a sewer is located shall connect such improved property
therewith, in such manner as this Borough may require, within 60 days after
notice to such owner from this Borough to make such connection, for the purpose
of discharge of all sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from such improved
property, subject to such limitations and restrictions as shall be established
by this Borough, from time to time.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.01)
§ 18-112.   Sanitary Sewage and Industrial Wastes.
   All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property, after
connection of such improved property with a sewer shall be required under §
18-111, shall be conducted into a sewer, subject to such limitations and
restrictions as shall be established herein or as otherwise shall be
established by this Borough from time to time.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.02)
§ 18-113.   Sanitary Sewage and Industrial Wastes Placed on Public or Private
Property; Discharges into Natural Outlets.
   1.   No person shall place or deposit, or permit to be placed or deposited,
upon public or private property within this Borough any sanitary sewage or
industrial wastes in violation of §
18-111.
   2.   No person shall discharge, or permit to be discharged to any natural
outlet within this Borough any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in
violation of §
18-111, except where suitable treatment has been provided which is satisfactory
to this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.03)
§ 18-114.   Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Sinkholes and Septic Tanks.
   1.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
shall be used or maintained at any time upon any improved property which has
been connected to a sewer or which shall be required under §
18-111 to be connected to a sewer.
   2.   Every such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle in existence shall be abandoned and, at the discretion of this
Borough, shall be cleansed and filled at the expense of the owner of such
improved property and under the direction and supervision of this Borough; and
any such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle not
so abandoned and, if required by this Borough, cleansed and filled, shall
constitute a nuisance and such nuisance may be abated as provided by law, at
the expense of the owner of such improved property.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.04)
§ 18-115.   Connection of Receptacles.
   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle at any
time shall be connected with a sewer.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.05)
§ 18-116.   Notice to Connect.
   The notice by this Borough to make a connection to a sewer, referred to in §
18-111, shall consist of a copy of this Part, including any amendments at the
time in effect, or a brief summary of each section thereof, and a written or
printed document requiring such connection in accordance with the provisions of
this Part and specifying that such connection shall be made within 60 days from
the date such notice is given. Such notice may be given at any time after a
sewer is in place which can receive and convey sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes for treatment and disposal from the particular improved property. Such
notice shall be served upon the owner either by personal service or by
registered mail or by such other method as at the time may be provided by law.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.07)
§ 18-117.   New Connection.
   No new connection to the sewer system will be permitted unless there is
sufficient capacity (not legally committed to other users) to adequately convey
and treat the wastewater which the new connection will discharge.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 2.07)
C.   Laterals and Connections.
§ 18-121.   Permit.
   No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into or use, alter
or disturb, in any manner, any sewer or the sewer system without first making
application for and securing a permit, in writing, from this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.01)
§ 18-122.   Application for Permit.
   Application for permit required under §
18-121 shall be made by the owner of the improved property to be served, or his
or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.02)
§ 18-123.   Conditions for Connection.
   No person shall make or cause to be made a connection of any improved
property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of the
following conditions:
   A.   Such person shall have notified the Secretary of this Borough of the
desire and intention to connect such improved property to a sewer.
   B.   Such person shall have applied for and obtained a permit as required by
§
18-122.
   C.   Such person shall have given the Secretary of this Borough at least 24
hours’ notice of the time when such connection will be made so that this
Borough may supervise and inspect the work of connection and necessary testing.
   D.   Such person shall have paid to the Troy Borough Manager, or his or her
designee, the a sum in an amount to be established, from time to time, by
resolution of Borough Council as a tapping fee in the case of a single-family
residence or a single occupant commercial property and an amount to be
established, from time to time, by resolution of Borough Council per apartment
or commercial occupant in the case of multifamily residences or multi-occupant
commercial properties as a tapping fee. In addition thereto, the applicant
shall pay to the Borough Manager, or his or her designee, the cost of all
materials used or consumed by the Borough in association with the connection of
the improved property to the community sewer system. [A.O.]
   E.   Opening and closing of state or Borough roads will be paid by the land
owner by actual costs. [A.O.]
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.03; as amended by Ord. 12/20/1993, § 1; and by A.O.)
§ 18-124.   Grouping.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each improved property shall
be connected separately and independently with a sewer through a building
sewer. Grouping of more than 1 improved property on 1 building sewer shall not
be permitted, except under special circumstances and for good sanitary reasons
or other good cause shown, and then only after special permission of this
Borough, in writing, shall have been secured and subject to such rules,
regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.04)
§ 18-125.   Costs and Expenses.
   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all costs and
expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer shall be borne by the
owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall indemnify
and save harmless this Borough and the Authority from all loss or damage that
may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of construction of a
building sewer or of connection of a building sewer to a sewer.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.05)
§ 18-126.   Connection at Main.
   1.   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by this Borough or the Authority and where the lateral is provided. The
building sewer shall be constructed of materials and in such manner as the
building and plumbing codes require.
   2.   The invert of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at
the same or a higher elevation than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat
joint shall be made and the connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall
be made secure and watertight.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 3.06)
D.   Building Sewers and Connections to Sewers.
§ 18-131.   Existing House Sewer Line.
   Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sewer is required,
shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or device, the existing house
sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of such sewage disposal system
or device and attachment shall be made, with proper fittings, to continue such
house sewer line as a building sewer.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.01)
§ 18-132.   Discharges into Sewer System.
   From and after the effective date of this Part, it shall be unlawful to:
   A.   For any person to discharge or permit to be discharged into any public
sewer system any roof or surface water, or the flow from any groundwater
collection system or any matter determined by the Borough to be dangerous or
harmful to, or the discharge of which into a public sewer system would
adversely affect, the public sewer system or its functioning, or the process of
sewage treatment and disposal; or to discharge or to permit to be discharged
into any public sewer system any industrial or process waste which is not
preliminarily treated in a manner to make it acceptable and harmless to the
public sewer system or the Borough storm sewer system and to the processes of
sewage treatment and disposal.
   B.   For any person to discharge any roof or surface water by any pipes
completely or partially buried under the surface of the ground without first
exhibiting such pipes to the Borough Manager of the Borough of Troy, or his or
her appointed representative, for inspection to assure that the said water does
not discharge into the Borough sewer system.
   C.   All persons presently discharging roof or surface water by pipes
completely or partially buried under the surface of the ground shall exhibit to
the Borough Manager, or his or her appointed representative, the ultimate
destination of such water, and if the said ultimate destination is the Borough
public sewer system, the said pipes shall be disconnected from the Borough
public sewer system within 15 days of the Borough’s written demand therefor, at
the expense of the person or entity so discharging the said water.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.02; as amended by Ord. 92-3, 6/8/1992)
§ 18-133.   Inspection and Approval.
   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and approved
by this Borough. If any part of a building sewer is covered before so being
inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection at the cost and
expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a sewer.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.03)
§ 18-134.   Maintenance.
   Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.04)
§ 18-135.   Excavation.
   Every excavation for a lateral shall be guarded adequately with barricades
and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Streets, sidewalks
and all other public property disturbed in the course of installation of a
building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of the owner of the
improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.05)
§ 18-136.   Unsatisfactory Conditions.
   If any person shall fail or refuse, upon receipt of a notice from this
Borough or the Authority, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory conditions
with respect to a building sewer, within 60 days of receipt of such notice,
this Borough may refuse to permit such person to discharge sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes into the sewer system until such unsatisfactory conditions
shall have been remedied to the satisfaction of this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.06)
§ 18-137.   Additional Rules and Regulations Relating to Connections.
   This Borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, additional
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating to
connections with a sewer and the sewer system, which additional rules and
regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be, and shall be construed as, a
part of this Part.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.07)
§ 18-138.   Sewer Rentals.
   All users shall pay sewer rentals for the sewerage service furnished by the
Borough, based on the current schedule of rates and in accordance with the
classification and other provisions below set forth.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the amount of sewerage
service furnished to each user shall be deemed to be equal to the amount of
water supplied to that user by the Borough or other water system; and the
consumption of sewerage service, expressed in terms of gallons per month,
shall, except as otherwise provided in this section, be equal to the
consumption of water as metered by the water service. The Borough will
administratively impose charges for sewer rental on users of unmetered private
water supplies.
   B.   Annual sewer rentals shall be due at the current quarterly rates from
all users who discharge sewage containing no process or industrial waste or
other matter more concentrated than domestic sewage, as determined in
accordance with the regulations of the User Charge Ordinance [Part 2].
   C.   The sewer rental charges are subject to a penalty of 10 percent on the
fifteenth day after the date of billing if not paid by that time.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.08)
§ 18-139.   Harmful Discharges.
   The Borough reserves the right to refuse permission to connect to the sewer
system, to compel discontinuance of use of the sewer system or to compel
pretreatment of wastewaters by any industry in order to prevent discharges
deemed to be harmful, or to have a deleterious effect upon any portion of the
sewer system. The Borough reserves the right to recover costs to repair or
replace facilities damaged by discharges of substances by industrial users.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.09)
§ 18-140.   Prior Approval.
   1.   No wastewaters in any of the following categories shall be discharged
from any
improved property into the sewer system without the prior approval of the
Borough:
      A.   Industrial wastes having a BOD greater than 300 mg/l.
      B.   Industrial wastes having a content of suspended solids greater than
350 mg/l.
      C.   Industrial wastes having a COD greater than 600 mg/l.
      D.   Ammonia nitrogen - NH3N - 50 mg/l.
      E.   Industrial wastes slugs having an average daily flow greater than 5
percent of the average daily waste flow at the sewage treatment plant receiving
wastes from the sewer system.
      F.   Any sewage, industrial wastes or other matter or substance:
         (1)   Having a temperature higher than 150°F or less than 32°F.
         (2)   Containing more than 100 mg/l of fat, oil or grease.
         (3)   Containing any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, paint
products, acid or other inflammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases.
         (4)   Containing unground garbage.
         (5)   Containing any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving,
metals, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure,
bentonite, lye, building materials, rubber, hair, bones, leather, porcelain,
china, ceramic wastes or other solid or viscous substances capable of causing
obstruction or other interference with the operation of the sewer system or the
sewage treatment plant receiving wastes from the sewer system.
         (6)   Having a pH, stabilized, lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, bacterial action or personnel.
         (7)   Containing a toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient quantity
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to constitute a
hazard to humans or animals or to create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant receiving wastes from the sewer system.
         (8)   Containing total solids of such character and quantity that
unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials in the
operation of the sewer system or the sewage treatment plant receiving wastes
from the sewer system.
         (9)   Containing noxious or malodorous gas or a substance which
creates a public nuisance.
         (10)   Containing dye from any source that will not have an effluent
the equivalent of that produced by alum coagulation and chlorination to remove
suspended or colloidal matter and bleach the dissolved dyes.
         (11)   Containing radioactive substances and/or isotopes.
         (12)   Containing wastes which are not amenable to biological
treatment or reduction in existing treatment facilities, specifically
nonbiodegradable complex carbon compounds or substances applicable to the
federal categorical pretreatment standards in excess of the quantity prescribed
in those standards. The following is a calculation of local limits:
Cadmium   1.3299 mg/l
Chrominum 1.0625 mg/l
Copper    0.2125 mg/l
Cyanide   0.0865 mg/l
Lead      0.9884 mg/l
Mercury   0.0161 mg/l
Nickel    1.0625 mg/l
Silver    0.0967 mg/l
Zinc      0.3400 mg/l
 
         (13)   Containing concentrations of anions, cations and other various
objectionable substances.
         (14)   Containing heavy metals of such quantity that disposal of
sewage sludge by land application to agricultural crop land would be
unacceptable to the regulatory agency having jurisdiction.
   2.   Under special agreement, mass limits instead of concentration limits of
specific substances may be required of some industrial users.
   3.   Nothing in this Part shall be construed as preventing any agreement
with any user of the wastewater facilities whereby wastewater of unusual
strength is accepted into the system and specially treated, subject to any
payments or user charges as may be applicable.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.10)
§ 18-141.   Regulating Devices.
   The Borough reserves the right to require nonresidential establishments
having large variations in rates of wastewater discharge to install suitable
regulating devices for equalizing wastewater flows to the sewer system.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.11)
§ 18-142.   Observation, Measurement and Sampling of Wastewaters.
   When directed by the Borough, owners of industrial establishments shall
install, pay for and maintain a manhole and such other devices as may be
approved by the Borough to facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of
wastewaters discharged to the sewer system. The Borough or its duly authorized
representative, at all reasonable times, shall be permitted to enter upon any
and all properties for the purpose of inspecting, observing, measuring and
sampling wastewaters discharged to the sewer system. Sampling methods, times
and durations will be determined on an individual basis.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.12)
§ 18-143.   Industrial Users.
   1.   Owners of industrial establishments desiring to discharge industrial
wastes to the sewer system shall obtain a permit from the Borough to do so. 1
Applications for a permit to discharge industrial wastes shall be accompanied
by all information requested by the Borough for the determination of industrial
wastes volumes, characteristics and constituents. The cost for obtaining such
information shall be borne by the owner of the industrial establishment. The
owner may be required to submit periodic information deemed necessary for
determination of compliance with this Part, NPDES permit conditions and state
and federal laws. Any information submitted by an industrial user to the
Borough will be kept confidential.
   2.   The owner of any industrial establishment which is connected to the
sewer system who plans to change operations so as to materially alter the
characteristics and volumes of wastewaters discharged to the sewer system shall
notify the Borough in writing at least 20 days before making such connections
or changing its operations.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.13)
 
Notes
1    1Editor’s Note: The application for wastewater discharge permit is on file at
  the Borough office.
§ 18-144.   Interceptors.
   When directed by the Borough, grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
shall be provided where, in the opinion of the Borough, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts,
any flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity acceptable to the Borough, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.14)
§ 18-145.   Other Discharges.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sewer, without
prior written approval of the Borough, any stormwater, surface water,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process water. Where existing surface water or roof
drains are connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system, they shall
be removed within 30 days of receipt of a notice from the Borough to remove
said connection.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.15)
§ 18-146.   Additional Rules and Regulations for Operation of Sewer System.
   This Borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, such additional
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper in connection with
use and operation of the sewer system, which rules and regulations shall be,
shall become and shall be construed as part of this Part.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.16)
§ 18-147.   Special Agreement.
   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed as prohibiting any special
agreement or arrangement between the Borough and any person whereby industrial
wastes of unusual strength or character may be admitted into the sewer system.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.17)
§ 18-148.   Users Outside the Borough.
   Any user of the sewer system located outside the Borough shall be subject to
the rules and regulations contained in this Part the same as if they were
located inside the Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 4.18)
E.   Enforcement.
§ 18-151.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 5.01)
§ 18-152.   Disconnection of Users Outside the Borough.
   Any user of the sewer system located outside the Borough who shall violate
the rules and regulations contained in this Part shall be subject to
termination of service and disconnection from the sewer system.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 5.02)
§ 18-153.   Fines and Costs.
   Fines and costs imposed under provisions of this Part shall be enforceable
and recoverable in the manner at the time provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 5.03)
F.   Declaration of Purpose.
§ 18-161.   Declaration of Purpose.
   It is declared that the enactment of this Part is necessary for the
protection, benefit and preservation of the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of this Borough.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 8.01)
§ 18-162.   Fees, Penalties and Charges.
   All fees, penalties and charges collected shall be used for the purpose of
operating, maintaining and replacement of the wastewater facilities or the
retirement of debt incurred for same.
(Ord. 87-4, 4/20/1987, § 8.02)
Part 2
Wastewater Treatment
A.   Definitions.
§ 18-201.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning
of terms used in this Part shall be as follows:
   Ammonia nitrogen (NH3N)–the quantity of nitrogen in the form of ammonia,
expressed in mg/l, that is present in sanitary sewage or industrial waste. The
standard laboratory procedure shall be that found in the latest edition of
“Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,” published by
the American Public Health  Association.
   Authority–Troy Borough Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania municipality
authority.
   BOD (biochemical oxygen demand)–the quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure for 5 days at 20°C. The standard laboratory procedure
shall be that found in the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health
Association.
   Borough–Borough of Troy, Bradford County, Pennsylvania, a political
subdivision, acting by and through its Borough Council or, in appropriate
cases, by and through its authorized representatives.
   COD (chemical oxygen demand)–the quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure.
   Commercial establishments–any improved property used, in whole or in part,
for sale, storage and/or distribution of any product, commodity, article or
service.
   Improved property–any property on which there is erected a structure
intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by human
beings or animals and from which structure sanitary sewage and/or industrial
wastes shall be or may be discharged.
   Industrial establishments–any premises used wholly or in part for the
manufacture, processing, cleaning, laundering or assembly of any product,
commodity or article or from which any process waste, as distinct from sanitary
sewage, shall be discharged.
   Industrial wastes–any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
ejected or escaping in the course of any industrial, manufacturing, trade or
business process or in the course of the development, recovery or processing of
natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   mg/l–milligrams per liter.
   Nonresidential establishment–any improved property not classified as a
residential establishment.
   Owner–any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of any improved property.
   Person–any individual, partnership, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or other group or entity.
   pH–the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions, expressed
in grams per liter of solution, which indicates the degree of acidity or
alkalinity of a substance. A stabilized pH will be considered as a pH which
does not change beyond the specified limits when the waste is subjected to
aeration. It shall be determined by 1 of the accepted methods described in the
latest edition of “Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Wastewater,”
published by the American Public Health Association.
   Residential establishment–any room, group of rooms, house trailer or other
enclosure occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters by a
family or other group of persons living together or by persons living alone.
   Sanitary sewage–normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property.
   Sewer–any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system, used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   Sewer system–all facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and/or disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes, situated in this Borough or in adjacent townships, owned by
the Authority and leased to this Borough for operation and use.
   Slug–any discharges of water, sanitary sewage or industrial wastes which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour
concentration or flow during normal operation.
   Suspended solids (SS)–solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other liquids and
which are removable by laboratory filtering.
   Water company–the Troy Borough Water Department or any other private or
public water company or any other municipality, municipality authority,
political subdivision or other political agency providing water service to
sewered areas of the Borough or adjacent Townships.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 1.01)
      B.   Sewer Rentals or Charges.
§ 18-211.   Rates and Classifications.
   Sewer rentals or charges are imposed upon and shall be collected from the
owner of each improved property connected to the sewer system, for use of the
sewer system, whether such use shall be direct or indirect, in accordance with
the following schedule of rates and classifications:
   A.   Residential Establishments.
      (1)   All owners of sewered residential establishments shall pay
quarterly sewer rentals or charges based upon actual water consumption with
exceptions as hereinafter noted. Each residential establishment in a double
house, in a row of connecting houses or in an apartment shall be billed as a
separate entity. All sewer rentals based upon water consumption shall be
computed in accordance with the following rates:
 
Water Consumption Per Quarter Annum  Rental Rate Per Quarter Annum
First 2,000 gallons                 $9.80
Over 2,000 gallons                  $4.90 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (2)   All owners of sewered residential establishments not having a metered
water source shall pay quarterly sewer rentals or charges based upon the number
of persons residing in, occupying or using the residential establishment. All
sewer rentals based upon water consumption shall be computed in accordance with
the following rates:
 
Number of Persons Rental Rate Per Quarter Annum
6 or more         $16.425 per person
 
   (3)   The volume of water to be used for billing sewer rentals or charges to
owners of residential establishments connected to the sewer system shall
include any and all water purchased from any water company and all water
obtained from any other source (wells, streams and the like) as determined: (A)
by meters installed and maintained by any water company; or (B) by meters
installed and maintained by the Borough; or (C) by meters installed and
maintained by the owner of the residential establishment, as approved by the
Borough; or (D) from estimates or measurements made by the Borough.
   B.   Nonresidential establishments (including all commercial establishments
and all industrial establishments).
   (1)   All owners of sewered nonresidential establishments shall pay sewer
rentals or charges based upon actual water consumption with exceptions as
hereinafter noted. All sewer rentals based upon water consumption shall be
computed in accordance with the same rates as residential establishments with
exceptions as hereinafter noted.
   (2)   The volume of water to be used for billing sewer rentals or charges to
owners of nonresidential establishments connected to the sewer system shall
include any and all water purchased from any water company and all water
obtained from any other source (wells, streams and the like) as determined: (A)
by meters installed and maintained by any water company; or (B) by meters
installed and maintained by the Borough; or (C) by meters installed and
maintained by the owner of the nonresidential establishment, as approved by the
Borough; or (D) from estimates or measurements made by the Borough.
   (3)   Exclusion from the sewer system of non-contaminated wastewaters may be
required of a nonresidential establishment by the Borough, or such exclusion
may be optional with the owner if not required by the Borough. When such
wastewaters are excluded, or when any other portion of the water consumption of
a nonresidential establishment does not reach the sewer system, sewer rentals
shall be based upon total water consumption, less water excluded, at rates set
forth under paragraph .A(1) of this section and, as may be applicable, as set
forth in paragraph .B(4) of this section. Water excluded shall be determined
from meters installed and maintained by the owner as required and approved by
the Borough or from estimates made by the Borough or the owner may elect to
measure wastewater volumes actually discharged to the sewer system as
hereinafter provided. The Borough may require the owner of an industrial
establishment, or the owner of an industrial establishment may elect to
install, pay for and maintain a meter approved by the Borough for measuring
quarterly wastewater volumes discharged to the sewer system, in which case
sewer rentals shall be based upon the actual volume of wastewaters so metered
at the rates set forth under paragraph .A(1) of this section and, as may be
applicable, as set forth in paragraph .B(4) of this section.
   (4)   The owner of an industrial establishment discharging industrial wastes
to the sewer system having a BOD concentration greater than 300 mg/l, a
suspended solids concentration greater than 350 mg/l, and/or an ammonia
nitrogen concentration greater than 50 mg/l shall pay a strength of waste
surcharge, in addition to applicable volume charges, to be calculated as
follows:
Determination of “Per Unit” Treatment Charges
Plant Loadings (concentration)
Average Flow = 150,000 gallons per day (0.150 MG)
BOD Influent = 250 mg/1
SS Influent = 250 mg/1
NH3N Influent = 25 mg/1
Plant Loadings (mass units)
BOD = 0.150 MG x 250 mg/1 x 8.34 = 312.75 lbs/day
SS = 0.150 MG x 250 mg/1 x 8.34 = 312.75 lbs/day
NH3-N = 0.150 MG x 25 mg/1 x 8.34 = 31.28 lbs/day
Per Unit Charges
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71172275881e9f30686af12c63142af25e805c90/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1416.jpg]
 
Surcharge Formula
SQ=0.00834 Q1 [BODX (BODI - 300) + SSx (SS1 - 350) + NH3-Nx (NH3-Ni- 50)]
Where:
SQ = the annual strength of waste surcharge for a particular industrial
establishment.
Q1 = the flow, in million gallons per day, of the industrial waste discharged
by a particular industrial establishment.
BODX = the cost of wastewater treatment associated with BOD removal in dollars
per 1,000 lbs. at the Troy wastewater treatment plant.
BODI = the BOD concentration in milligrams per liter of the industrial waste
discharge by a particular industrial establishment.
SSx = the cost of wastewater treatment associated with suspended solids removal
in dollars per 1,000 lbs. at the Troy wastewater treatment plant.
SS1 = the suspended solids concentration in milligrams per liter of the
industrial waste discharged by a particular industrial establishment.
NH3-Nx = the cost of wastewater treatment associated with ammonia nitrogen
removal in dollars per 1,000 lbs. at the Troy wastewater treatment plant.
NH3-Ni = the ammonia nitrogen concentration in milligrams per liter of the
Industrial waste discharged by a particular industrial establishment.
 
      (5)   The industrial waste surcharge formula will be updated annually to
reflect the previous year’s plant loading and budget figures. The surcharge
formula is designed to give the Borough a system of recovering the cost to
treat the extra strength portion of the individual industrial establishment’s
wastewater.
       (6)   The surcharge rate shall be applicable to all sewer rental
billings. The quantity and costs to treat industrial wastes to be used for
establishing the surcharge rate shall be determined annually based upon an
average from the preceding year’s sampling and analysis of the wastes,
conducted during a period of normal plant operation. In establishing industrial
waste strengths for surcharge purposes by analysis, analyses shall be made in
accordance with procedures outlined in the latest edition of “Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public
Health Association. Owners of industrial establishments discharging sanitary
sewage and/or industrial wastes to the sewer system shall furnish the Borough
upon request all information deemed essential by the Borough for the
determination of applicable sewer rental surcharges for excess strength wastes.
The cost of obtaining such information and the cost of all analyses shall be
borne by the owner of the industrial establishment.
   C.   Minimum Charges. Notwithstanding any other provisions contained herein,
all owners of residential and nonresidential establishments connected to the
sewer system shall be required to pay a minimum sewer rental of $8 per quarter
annum.
   D.   Additional Classifications. Additional classifications and sewer
rentals or modifications of the aforementioned schedule of sewer rates may be
established by the Borough from time to time as deemed necessary.
   E.   Multiple Establishments. A separate sewer rental charge shall be made
for each residential and/or nonresidential establishment located on the same
improved property, regardless of whether or not the improved property is served
by a single lateral or is under single ownership. Likewise, if a single
building is being used as a residential establishment and also for a
nonresidential use, a separate sewer rental charge shall be made for each type
of use.
   F.   Special Agreements. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as
prohibiting special agreements between this Borough and owners of
nonresidential improved properties under conditions and circumstances making
special agreements advisable and necessary.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 2.01)
C.   Billing.
§ 18-221.   Billings.
   Billings for unmetered improved properties shall be rendered quarterly on
the first days of January April, July and October of each year. Billings for
metered improved properties served by a water company shall be made as close to
quarterly as is possible when applicable meter readings shall become available
to the Borough or as soon thereafter as practicable, and shall cover the period
since the date of the preceding meter readings which were used as a basis for
computing the immediately preceding billing. Billings based upon the volume of
water measured or estimated other than by a water company shall be made
quarterly and rendered on the billing date for unmetered improved properties or
as soon thereafter as practicable, and shall cover the period since the
immediately preceding meter reading or immediately preceding estimate. Owners
of property connected to the sewer system for only a portion of a billing
quarter shall pay a pro rata minimum sewer rental, if applicable, for the
period of time actually connected during the quartet All sewer rental billings
shall be due and payable upon presentation and, if not paid within 15 days from
the date of billing, a penalty of 10 percent shall be added.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 3.01)
D.   Measurements, Tests, and Analyses.
§ 18-231.   Measurements, Tests and Analyses.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Part shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at a suitable location to be approved by the Borough.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 4.01)
§ 18-232.   Samples.
   All samples shall be 24-hour composite wastewater samples; that is, 24
hourly wastewater samples collected over a 24-hour period with the sample
volume proportioned according to the flow rate at the time of the sample. The
cumulative sample shall be refrigerated. Exceptions to the 24-hour composite
sampling procedure may be made at the discretion of the Borough.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 4.02)
§ 18-233.   Frequency of Sampling, Measuring and Testing.
   The frequency of sampling, measuring and testing shall be as directed by the
Borough. All expenses of this activity shall be borne by the owner, and all
data obtained shall be sent to the Borough, as requested.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 4.03)
§ 18-234.   Access.
   The owner of any improved property connected to the sewer system shall
provide the Borough and its representatives and agents the opportunity of
access at any time to any part thereof, as shall be required for purposes of
inspection, measurement, sampling and testing and for performance of other
functions relating to service rendered by the Borough related to the sewer
system.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 4.04)
E.   Liens for Sewer Rentals; Filing and Collection of Liens.
§ 18-241.   Liens; Collection of Liens.
   Sewer rentals or charges imposed by this Part shall be a lien on the
improved property connected to and served by the sewer system; and any such
sewer rentals or charges which are delinquent shall be filed as a lien against
improved property so connected to and served by the sewer system, which lien
shall be filed in the office of the Prothonotary of Bradford County,
Pennsylvania, and shall be collected in the manner provided by law for the
filing and collecting of municipal claims.
(Ord. 87-3, 4/20/1987, § 5.01)
Chapter 19
Signs and Billboards
Part 1
Political Signs
§ 19-101.   Purpose
§ 19-102.   Definitions
§ 19-103.   Temporary Political Signs
§ 19-104.   Private Property
§ 19-105.   Violations and Penalties
Part 1
Political Signs
§ 19-101.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Borough in promulgating this Part regulating the
placement of temporary political signs on public property is, among other
things, to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the community
(A.O.)
§ 19-102.   Definitions.
   The following shall be defined terms for the purposes of this Part:
   Temporary political signs–those signs announcing political candidates
seeking office, political parties and/or political and public issues contained
on an election ballot.
(A.O.)
§ 19-103.   Temporary Political Signs.
   Temporary political signs posted on public property located within the
Borough are subject to the following general requirements:
   A.   Number of Signs. No more than 1 temporary political sign shall be
placed on public property at any intersection of roads or streets for any
candidate, nor shall a temporary political sign be located within 600 feet of
any other such sign for any candidate.
   B.   Area. Temporary political signs on public property shall not exceed an
aggregate gross surface area of 4 square feet per sign.
   C.   Height. Temporary political signs shall not project higher than 4 feet,
as measured from the base of sign or grade of the nearest adjacent roadway,
whichever is higher.
   D.   Timing. Temporary political signs may be erected or maintained for a
period not to exceed 30 days prior to the date of the election to which such
signs are applicable and shall be removed within 5 days following the
termination of the election.
   E.   Illumination. No temporary political signs shall be illuminated in any
manner.
   F.   Posting of a Cash Bond. Prior to any person, firm or corporation
placing a temporary political sign within the confines of any public right-of-
way within the Township, there shall be posted with the Secretary of the
Borough a cash bond in the amount of $100.
   G.   Required Information. At the time of posting of the cash bond, there
shall be submitted to the Borough, on a form supplied by the Borough, the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of a person who is placing the temporary
political signs and the name and address of the person who will be responsible
for removal of each sign.
      (2)   The general nature and purpose of the temporary political signs to
be placed.
   H.   Required Consent of the Borough for the Placement of Temporary
Political Signs on Public Rights-of-Way or Public Property. Borough reserves
the right to deny a request to post temporary political signs on public
property or require the removal of any temporary political signs at any time
whenever such sign poses a threat to the public’s safety, health and welfare.
Specific prohibitions include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Temporary political signs shall be prohibited within 5 feet of the
edge of the paved surface of any road or street within the Borough.
      (2)   Temporary political signs shall be prohibited along any road or
street within the Borough where it would obstruct the clear sight distance of
the traffic.
   I.   Return of Bond. If the temporary political sign is removed within 3
days after the date when it was declared to the Borough that they would be so
removed, the cash bond shall be refunded to the person or organization
responsible for posting that bond.
   J   Forfeiture of Bond. If the temporary political signs are not removed
within 5 days after the election, the posted cash bond as required by this
section shall be forfeited to the General Fund of the Borough in an amount of
$5 per sign as the cost to the Borough to remove the signs.
(A.O.)
§ 19-104.   Private Property.
   No temporary political signs shall be placed or erected on any private
property without first obtaining permission from such property owner.
(A.O.)
§ 19-105.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(A.O.)
Chapter 20
Solid Waste
Part 1
Collection and Disposal of Refuse
§ 20-101.   Definitions
§ 20-102.   Storage and Disposal of Garbage
§ 20-103.   Removal and Transportation of Refuse
§ 20-104.   Exclusive Right to Collect Garbage and Refuse
§ 20-105.   Collection by Enfranchised Collector Only
§ 20-106.   Penalty
Part 1
Collection and Disposal of Refuse
§ 20-101.   Definitions.
   1.   The following words, as used in this Part, shall have the meanings
hereby ascribed thereto, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   Garbage–all table refuse, animal and vegetable matter, offal from meat, fish
and fowl, fruits, vegetables and parts thereof, and other articles and
materials ordinarily used for food which have become unfit for such use or
which are for any reason discarded.
   Person–any natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   Refuse–all discarded articles or materials, except sewage and liquid waste,
and including garbage, ashes and combustible and noncombustible waste.
   2.   In this Part the singular shall include the plural and the masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 1; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 20-102.   Storage and Disposal of Garbage.
   All garbage originating within the Borough of Troy shall be disposed of only
by removal beyond the limits of the Borough. In no case may garbage be brought
into the Borough for the purpose of disposal therein, nor may garbage be
disposed of within the limits of the Borough by burning. Pending disposal as
hereby authorized, garbage may be stored in covered containers only, and in
such limited quantities and for such limited period of time as shall ensure
that no annoyance, nuisance or health hazard shall be created or maintained
thereby. Except for such temporary storage as is hereby specifically
authorized, no person shall keep, have, maintain, store upon or allow to exist
in any manner whatsoever any garbage upon any lot or piece of ground within the
limits of the Borough.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 2; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 20-103.   Removal and Transportation of Refuse.
   No person shall remove, haul or convey any refuse through or upon any of the
streets or alleys of the Borough of Troy and dispose of the same in any manner
or place except the collector enfranchised by the Borough Council and
individuals hauling or conveying their own refuse for disposal.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 3; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 20-104.   Exclusive Right to Collect Garbage and Refuse.
   The Council of the Borough of Troy shall, once every 3 years, upon
investigation, select from applicants the most reliable and best applicant to
have the exclusive right to collect garbage and refuse within the Borough
during the term of the franchise, under the regulations and rates and methods
of collection as Council may, from time to time, prescribe or approve of as
promulgated by the enfranchised party.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 4; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 20-105.   Collection by Enfranchised Collector Only.
   No person shall permit anyone but the enfranchised collector to take any
refuse from the premises owned or occupied by him or her except that an
individual owner disposing of his or her own refuse may employ someone who does
not make a business of the practice to assist in such collection.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 5; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 20-106.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6-1962, 12/12/1962, § 6; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; as
amended by A.O.)
Chapter 21
Streets and Sidewalks
Part 1
Sidewalk Construction
§ 21-101.   Property Owners to Construct or Reconstruct Sidewalks and Curbs on
Notice
§ 21-102.   Property Owners to Repair Sidewalks and Curbs on Notice
§ 21-103.   Sidewalk and Curb Specifications
§ 21-104.   Conditions for Construction and Reconstruction and Repair of
Sidewalks and Curbs by Property Owners on Own Initiative
§ 21-105.   Sidewalks and Curbs Along Corner Lots
§ 21-106.   Authority for Borough to do Certain Work and Collect Cost, Plus 10
Percent, From Defaulting Property Owner
Part 2
Driveways and Encroachments
§ 21-201.   Definition
§ 21-202.   Permit Required
§ 21-203.   Construction Specified
§ 21-204.   Encroachment Prohibited
§ 21-205.   Unobstructed Drainage
§ 21-206.   Saving Clause
§ 21-207.   Notice of Noncompliance and Appeals
§ 21-208.   Authority for Borough to do Work at Expense of Property Owner
Part 3
Snow and Ice Removal
§ 21-301.   Snow and Ice Removal Required
§ 21-302.   Failure to Comply; Borough May Do Work and Collect Costs Thereof
§ 21-303.   Penalty
Part 4
Street Openings
§ 21-401.   Application to Borough Manager
§ 21-402.   Fee
§ 21-403.   Conditions of Permit
§ 21-404.   Reconstruction
§ 21-405.   Responsibilities of Permit Holder
§ 21-406.   Indemnification
Part 5
Naming of Streets
§ 21-501.   Purpose
§ 21-502.   Implementation and Administration
§ 21-503.   Guidelines and Standards
§ 21-504.   Enforcement
Part 1
Sidewalk Construction
§ 21-101.   Property Owners to Construct or Reconstruct Sidewalks and Curbs on
Notice.
   Every owner of property in the Borough shall, on 60 days notice from
Council, construct or reconstruct a sidewalk and/or curb which shall conform to
all applicable requirements of this Part in front of and alongside that
property.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 1)
§ 21-102.   Property Owners to Repair Sidewalks and Curbs on Notice.
   Every owner of property in the Borough shall, on 30 days notice from
Council, repair the sidewalk and curb in conformity with the requirements of
the notice in front of and alongside that property.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 2)
§ 21-103.   Sidewalk and Curb Specifications.
   1.   All new sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed or reconstructed of
concrete or other suitable material authorized by the Borough Council,
according to specifica tions adopted by Council from time to time. The sidewalk
shall be paved to the width prescribed by Council.
   2.   All sidewalks previously lawfully constructed of material other than
concrete may be repaired of the same material, if Council determines that the
sidewalk in question is repairable, and is not in a condition requiring
complete reconstruction. If complete reconstruction is ordered by Council, the
reconstructed sidewalk shall conform to all requirements for new sidewalks as
set out in subsection .1 of this section.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 3)
§ 21-104.   Conditions for Construction and Reconstruction and Repair of
Sidewalks and Curbs by Property Owner on Own Initiative.
   Any property owner may, on his or her own initiative and without prior
notice from Council, construct, reconstruct or repair a sidewalk and/or curb in
front of or along side his or her property provided that: (A) he or she shall
first make application to Council for permit for the work, which shall be
issued without charge; and (B) he or she shall conform to all the requirements
of the law and of the permit and of this Part that would have applied had he or
she been required by Council to construct, reconstruct or repair the sidewalk
or curb; provided, in issuing the permit, Council shall specify the width,
grade and lines of the paved sidewalk and/or curb, so as to conform with those
of other sidewalks and curbs along the same block, or so as to establish those
to which curbs and walks subsequently constructed along that block shall
adhere.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 4; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980)
§ 21-105.   Sidewalks and Curbs Along Corner Lots.
   Whenever a sidewalk or curb shall be constructed or reconstructed along the
front or side of a corner lot, either on notice from Council or on the
initiative of the property owner, the property owner shall be required to
continue the walk or curb beyond the corner of the lot for a distance of the
width of the intersecting walk on the intersecting street, so that a continuous
walk and/or curb shall be provided.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 5)
§ 21-106.   Authority for Borough to Do Certain Work and Collect Cost, plus 10
Percent, from Defaulting Property Owner.
   Whenever any property owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to construct,
reconstruct or repair any sidewalk or curb, following notice as referred to in
§§
21-101 or
21-102, within the time limit prescribed, the Borough shall have authority to
cause that work of construction, reconstruction or repair, as the case may be,
to be done, and shall collect the cost and expenses of the work, with an
additional amount of 10 percent, from the property owner in default. Similarly,
when a sidewalk or curb shall be constructed, reconstructed or repaired
otherwise than in strict conformity to the requirements of this Part and/or any
notice or permit issued under the provisions of this Part, and the property
owner fails, neglects or refuses to remedy, complete or rectify the defective
or incomplete work, following 10 days notice from Council to do so, the Borough
shall have authority to have any work done that shall be necessary for
completion, remedy or rectification, and shall collect the costs and expenses
of the work, with an additional amount of 10 percent from the property owner in
default.
(Ord. 79-1, 3/19/1979, § 6)
Part 2
Driveways and Encroachments
§ 21-201.   Definition.
   A driveway is any passageway for vehicles over or through any curb or
sidewalk on any Borough street, said access or passageway forming a connection
between such street and private property. The term “curb” in this Part shall
mean the outer width limit of the carriageway and gutter, or the linear limit
of an opened Borough street, i.e., end of street.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3002; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-202.   Permit Required.
   A permit is required for the construction or reconstruction of driveways. On
streets exclusively Borough domain, a building permit is required. On streets
which are also state highways, a highway occupancy permit must be obtained from
the Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3003; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-203.   Construction Specified.
   The construction of the ramp between the curb and the street shall be as
specified by the Street Commissioner, determination of specification shall be
based upon the relative elevations of the street, the property to be accessed
and the character of the gutter. When vehicular access is practicable by means
of the curb cut and ramp, the curb shall not be cut below a point 1-1/2 inches
above the base or flow line of the gutter. Where relative elevations make a
curb cut impracticable, a ramp may be installed over the gutter, however, such
ramp shall incorporate drainage into the gutter by means of grating or slots.
Covered solid pipes are prohibited in cases where the property is higher than
the street.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3004; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-204.   Encroachment Prohibited.
   Encroachment of water and/or soil on Borough streets is prohibited.
Driveways shall be so constructed and maintained by property owners as to
prevent water and soil from being carried onto a Borough street and to prevent
soil from entering a gutter.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3005; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-205.   Unobstructed Drainage.
   Drainage of water via gutters and storm sewers shall not be obstructed by
blocked or deteriorated driveway ramps, maintenance of which is the
responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3006; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-206.   Saving Clause.
   Existing driveway ramps which incorporate pipes may be retained until
deterioration makes replacement, as determined by the Street Commissioner,
necessary. Replacement or reconstruction shall conform to the requirements of
this Part. Retention of an existing ramp does not exempt the property owner
from the prohibition against encroachment.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3007; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-207.   Notice of Noncompliance and Appeals.
   Written notice of noncompliance with provisions of this Part shall be
addressed to the property owner. The property owner so notified shall have 30
days in which to take corrective action or to dispute the notice by written
appeal to the Borough Council.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § ; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
§ 21-208.   Authority for Borough to Do Work at Expense of Property Owner.
   If, 30 days having elapsed after notice, the property owner fails to comply
with the provisions of this Part, the Borough may cause the improvements to be
made at the expense of the owner and may collect the cost thereof plus 10
percent from such owner and may file a municipal claim therefor or collect the
same by action in assumpsit.
(Ord. 80-3, 9/15/1980, § 12-3009; as amended by Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982)
Part 3
Snow and Ice Removal
§ 21-301.   Snow and Ice Removal Required.
   The owner, occupant or tenant of every property fronting upon or alongside
of any of the streets in the Borough of Troy is hereby required to remove or
cause to be removed from all of the sidewalks in front or alongside of such
property all snow or ice thereon fallen or formed within 12 hours after the
same has ceased to fall or to form; provided, that snow or ice that has ceased
to fall or to be formed after 6:00 p.m. may be removed at any time before 10:00
a.m. the next morning; provided, further, the owner of property shall be
responsible for conforming to the requirements of this section where such
property is occupied by such owner or is unoccupied; the tenant or occupier
thereof, where such property is occupied by such tenant or occupier only; and
the owner thereof where the property is a multiple business or multiple
dwelling property, occupied by more than 1 tenant.
(Ord. 2-1970, 2/23/1970, § 1)
§ 21-302.   Failure to Comply; Borough May Do Work and Collect Costs Thereof.
   In any case where the owner, occupier or tenant, as aforesaid, shall fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of §
21-301 of this Part, within the time limit prescribed therein, the Borough
authorities may proceed immediately to clear all snow and/or ice from the
sidewalk of such delinquents and to collect the expenses thereof, with any
additional amount allowed by law, from such owner, occupant or tenant, as the
case may be, which may be in addition to any fine or penalty imposed under §
21-303 of this Part.
(Ord. 2-1970, 2/23/1970, § 2)
§ 21-303.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-1970, 2/23/1970, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
Part 4
Street Openings
§ 21-401.   Application to Borough Manager.
   Every person or entity wishing to open the surface of a Borough street shall
apply to the Borough Manager for permission, which the Manager shall grant for
all responsible purposes, upon payment of the charges set forth in §
21-402.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965)
§ 21-402.   Fee.
   Opening of a Borough street shall be paid for by the applicant as
prescribed, from time to time, by resolution of Borough Council. The applicant
shall make payment upon written approval received from the Borough Manager unto
the Borough Secretary and shall not undertake the work, under penalty of
existing state law regarding criminal mischief, until said approval and
payment.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965; as amended by A.O.)
§ 21-403.   Conditions of Permit.
   Every permit so granted shall state, as conditions for the permit, the
purpose of the opening; the location and size of the opening; the dates on
which work will commence and end.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965; as added by Ord. 79-2, 3/19/1979)
§ 21-404.   Reconstruction.
   The holder of the permit shall reconstruct the street opening to Borough
specifications as stated by the Borough Manager and shall maintain same to said
specifications for a period of 1 year.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965; as added by Ord. 79-2, 3/19/1979)
§ 21-405.   Responsibilities of Permit Holder.
   The holder of the permit shall be responsible for direction of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic and for barriers, warning devices, signs and signals
necessary for safety of the public.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965; as added by Ord. 79-2, 3/19/1979)
§ 21-406.   Indemnification.
   The holder of the permit shall save the Borough harmless from and indemnify
it against any actions, suits or demands resulting by reason of the opening or
excavation.
(Ord. 3-1965, 6/28/1965; as added by Ord. 79-2, 3/19/1979)
Part 5
Naming of Streets
§ 21-501.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Part is to better enhance the County of Bradford E 9-1-
1/Emergency Communication System and to provide for a uniform county-wide
addressing system with respect to naming of streets and roadways, fabrication,
erection and maintenance of street name signs, address posting requirements,
enforcement procedures and assigning street or house numbers to all residences
and principal buildings and businesses to assist fire, rescue, ambulance
companies, law enforcement agencies, the United States Postal Service and the
public in the timely and efficient provision of services to residences and
businesses of Bradford County.
(Ord. 02-2, 4/-/2002, § I)
§ 21-502.   Implementation and Administration.
   The implementation of the uniform standards for naming streets and an
addressing system is in conjunction with the County of Bradford and the
Bradford County “9-1-1 Emergency Communications System.” This Part is
established in conjunction with the County of Bradford in implementing and
developing a “Master Street Address Guide” and coordinating, designating and
naming of addresses pursuant to the street naming and address policy.
Enforcement of this Part shall remain the responsibility of the Borough of
Troy; however, the County of Bradford shall coordinate and assist the Borough
of Troy in enforcement.
(Ord. 02-2, 4/-/2002, § II)
§ 21-503.   Guidelines and Standards.
   The Borough of Troy shall establish street names as chosen by the Borough of
Troy or land developer or land owner and street or house numbers in accordance
with the guidelines as set forth and described in Exhibit “A” 1 . Bradford
County Street Naming and Addressing Policy. Establishment of any street names
and addresses will be coordinated with the County of Bradford pursuant to the
Street Naming and Addressing Policy. Designation of street names and addresses
by the Borough of Troy shall require approval of the County of Bradford so as
to coordinate such designations and to comply with the County of Bradford
Street Naming and Addressing Policy.
(Ord. 00-2, 4/-12001, § III)
 
Notes
1       Editor’s Note: Exhibit “A” is on file at the Borough office.
§ 21-504.   Enforcement.
   1.   Whenever the Borough of Troy has reason to believe there has been a
violation of any provision of this Part, the Borough of Troy, or the designee
of the Borough of Troy, shall give notice to the person or party failing to
comply and order said person or party to take corrective action or measures
within 30 days from the date of notification.
   2.   If such person or party fails to comply with the duly issued order, the
Borough of Troy, or the designee of the Borough of Troy, shall initiate
necessary actions to terminate the violation through criminal and/or civil
measures.
   3.   Penalties.
      A.   Any violation of any provision of this Part pursuant to any criminal
sanction provided by any provision of this Part, upon conviction thereof, shall
be sentenced to a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs. Subsequent to the
30-day period following a violation, each day of violation shall constitute a
separate violation.
      B.   Should, pursuant to this section, enforcement be by civil measures,
any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated or permitted
the violation of any provision of this Part, upon being found liable therefor
in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the Borough, shall pay a
judgment of not more than $600 plus all court costs. No judgment shall commence
or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by a magisterial district judge. If the defendant neither pays nor
timely appeals the judgment, the Borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to
the applicable rules of civil procedure, at which time, in addition to any
penalties, the violator shall be liable for any attorney’s fees and costs
incurred by the Borough. Each day that a violation continues or each section of
this Part which shall be found to have been violated shall constitute a
separate violation.
   4.   The Borough of Troy shall have the authority and option, per agreement
with Bradford County, should both parties choose to do so, to designate
Bradford County as designee for the purposes of enforcement.
(Ord.02-2, 4/-/2002, § IV)
Chapter 22
Subdivision and Land Development
Part 1
Purpose, Authority, Title and Jurisdiction
§ 22-101.   Purpose
§ 22-102.   Authority and Title
§ 22-103.   Jurisdiction
Part 2
Submission Procedures
§ 22-201.   General
§ 22-202.   Feasibility Review Submission
§ 22-203.   Feasibility Review
§ 22-204.   Submission of the Preliminary Plan
§ 22-205.   Review of Preliminary Plan
§ 22-206.   Submission of the Final Plan
§ 22-207.   Review of Final Plan
§ 22-208.   Recording of the Final Plan
§ 22-209.   Plans Exempted From Standard Procedures
Part 3
Plan Recommendations
§ 22-301.   Feasibility Review
§ 22-302.   Preliminary Plan
§ 22-303.   Final Plans
Part 4
Design Standards
§ 22-401.   Application
§ 22-402.   General Standards
§ 22-403.   Block and Lot Design Standards
§ 22-404.   Street Design Standards
§ 22-405.   Sanitary Sewage Disposal
§ 22-406.   Water Supply and Distribution Systems
§ 22-407.   Storm Drainage Systems
§ 22-408.   Underground Utilities and Utility Easements
§ 22-409.   Environmental Protection and Open Space Preservation
Part 5
Improvement Specifications
§ 22-501.   General Requirements
§ 22-502.   Required Improvements
§ 22-503.   Improvements Guarantee Procedure
§ 22-504.   Approval of Improvements and Release of Performance Guarantee by
Borough Council
Part 6
Administration
§ 22-601.   Amendments
§ 22-602.   Appeals
§ 22-603.   Enforcement Remedies
§ 22-604.   Preventive Remedies
§ 22-605.   Validity and Conflicts
§ 22-606.   Fees
Part 7
Definitions
§ 22-701.   General
§ 22-702.   Specific Definitions
Appendix 22-A   Design and Connection Standards For Centralized Water Systems
Part 1
Purpose, Authority, Title and Jurisdiction
§ 22-101.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate subdivision and land development
within the Borough of Troy, Bradford County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 100)
§ 22-102.   Authority and Title.
   This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., and may be cited as the “Troy Borough
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.”
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 110)
§ 22-103.   Jurisdiction.
   This Chapter shall apply in the following circumstances:
   A.   To all subdivision and land development plans submitted after the
effective date of this Chapter.
   B.   To all subdivision and land development plans previously approved in
accordance with any law or regulation then applicable, the development of which
has not been completed in accordance with the terms of such approval within 3
years of such approval.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 120)
Part 2
Submission Procedures
§ 22-201.   General.
   1.   Feasibility Review. Review materials shall be submitted to the Office
of Borough Manager for discussion with the Borough Planning Commission of the
suitability of a parcel of land for a specific subdivision or land development
use and for direction or advise from the Borough Planning Commission. The
feasibility review materials shall be submitted to the Borough Engineer and the
County Planning Commission for review.
   2.   Preliminary Plan. Plans, supplementary data and fees shall be submitted
to the Office of Borough Manager for distribution to various review bodies. All
reviews shall be submitted to the Borough Planning Commission, which shall
review the plan and recommend action to the Borough Council. The Borough
Council shall take action and advise the applicant in writing of their
decision.
   3.   Final Plan. Plans, supplementary data and fees shall be submitted to
the Office of Borough Manager for distribution to various review bodies. The
final plan shall be submitted within 1 year of preliminary plan approval. All
reviews shall be submitted to the Borough Planning Commission, which shall
review the plan and recommend action to the Borough Council. The Borough
Council shall take action on the plan and advise the applicant, in writing, of
its decision. As a condition of approval, the applicant shall enter into
improvement and maintenance agreements with the Borough Council. No permits
shall be issued until said agreements have been excused and secured to the
satisfaction of the Borough Solicitor and until the approved final plan has
been recorded in the County Recorder of Deeds office.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 201)
§ 22-202.   Feasibility Review Submission.
   1.   Feasibility review maps and materials shall be submitted for all
proposed subdivisions and land developments, for purposes of discussion between
the Borough Planning Commission and the developer and for the information of
the County Planning Commission.
   2.   Three copies of all feasibility review maps and materials, as set forth
in §
22-301, shall be submitted to the Office of Borough Manager for distribution to
the Borough Planning Commission and the County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 210)
§ 22-203.   Feasibility Review.
   1.   When feasibility review maps and materials have been submitted to the
Borough Planning Commission, the data presented will be reviewed by that body
at its next regular meeting; provided, that submission has occurred no less
then 10 days prior to such scheduled meeting.
   2.   The Borough Planning Commission shall review the feasibility review
data to determine the development potential of the site, as indicated by the
natural features analysis presented. The general development concepts of the
developer will be reviewed to determine their compatibility with the
development potential of the site. Also, the feasibility review stage is
designed to offer the developer an opportunity to informally discuss his or her
plans for the proposed subdivision or land development with the Borough
Planning Commission.
   3.   No recommendation shall be made by the Borough Planning Commission
until the Commission has received and considered the written report of the
Planning Commission of Bradford County. However, if such reports are not
received within 30 days after receipt of feasibility review materials, the
Borough Planning Commission may make recommendations to the developer without
having received and considered such reports.
   4   Within 60 days of submission of feasibility review maps and materials to
the Borough Planning Commission, the Commission shall make any recommendations
to the developer which it deems necessary or advisable in the public interest
in order to provide an acceptable subdivision or land development plan for the
site. Within 5 days after such meeting, the Secretary of the Borough Planning
Commission shall send written notice of the Commission's recommendations to the
following:
      A.   The developer or his or her representative.
      B.   The Borough Council.
      C.   The County Planning Commission.
   5.   Within 1 year after completion of the feasibility review by the Borough
Planning Commission, the developer shall submit a preliminary plan.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 220)
§ 22-204.   Submission of the Preliminary Plan.
   1.   Preliminary plans, and all required supplementary data for all proposed
subdivisions and land developments, shall be submitted to the designated
Borough official.
   2.   If the preliminary plan submission complies with §
22-302 of this Chapter, the designated Borough official shall accept the
preliminary plan for distribution to the various review bodies.
   3.   Official submission of a preliminary plan to the Office of Borough
Manager by a developer shall comprise:
      A.   Five copies of a completed application for review of preliminary
subdivision plan.
      B.   Submission of 5 black-on-white or blue-on-white prints on paper of
the preliminary plan, which shall fully comply with the provisions of this
Chapter as set forth in §
22-302.
      C.   Submission of 5 copies of all required supplemental information, as
set forth in §
22-302, subsection .6.
   4.   The Office of Borough Manager shall refer preliminary plan submission
materials to the various review bodies as follows:
      A.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Planning Commission.
      B.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Engineer.
      C.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Council for their information.
      D.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer.
      E.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the County Planning Commission.
   5.   Additional copies of the preliminary plan materials shall be referred
by the Office of Borough Manager to the respective agencies in the following
circumstances:
      A.   Whenever the property being subdivided or developed abuts a state
legislative route, 1 application and 1 plan print shall be submitted to the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Regional Office.
      B.   Whenever the subdivision or land development requires a revision to
the official municipal sewage plan, or a water quality permit, as described in
§§
22-302 and
22-405 of this Chapter, 1 application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of supplemental
information shall be submitted to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection. [A.O.]
      C.   Whenever the subdivision or land development requires a soil erosion
and sedimentation control permit, as described in §§
22-302 and
22-409, subsection .1 of this Chapter, 1 application, 1 plan print and 1 copy
of supplemental information shall be submitted to the County Conservation
District.
      D.   Whenever a proposed subdivision or land development is located
adjacent to another municipality, 1 application and 1 plan print shall be
referred to that municipality.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 220; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-205.   Review of Preliminary Plan.
   1.   By the County Planning Commission.
      A.   Within 45 days of the date of official submission, the staff of the
County Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plan to determine its
conformance with regional plans, county-wide plans and priorities and shall
recommend such changes and modifications as it may deem necessary or advisable
in the public interest. [A.O.]
      B.   The County Planning Commission shall coordinate its review, when
necessary, with the appropriate state and county agencies, such as the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation and the County Conservation District and adjacent
municipalities (when they are affected). [A.O.]
      C.   Upon completion of the review of the preliminary plan by the County
Planning Commission staff, written notice, including the County Planning
Commission, shall be sent to:
         (1)   The Office of Borough Manager for referral to the Borough
Planning Commission and the Borough Council.
         (2)   The Borough Engineer.
         (3)   The engineer, surveyor or land planner of the developer.
         (4)   The developer or his or her representative.
      D.   The review of the preliminary subdivision or land development plan
by the County Planning Commission shall constitute the county planning agency
review set forth in § 502 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. § 10502.
   2.   By the Borough Planning Commission.
      A.   When a preliminary plan has been officially submitted, such plan
shall be placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for review at its next
regular monthly meeting; provided that such official submission has occurred no
less than 10 calendar days prior to such regular meeting. The Planning
Commission may hold a public hearing on the preliminary plan at this time.
      B.   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plan to
determine its conformance with the standards contained in this Chapter and
other applicable Borough ordinances and shall require or recommend such changes
and modifications as it deems necessary.
      C.   No action shall be taken by the Borough Planning Commission with
respect to a preliminary plan until the Borough Planning Commission has
received and considered the written report of the County Planning Commission;
provided, however, that if the County Planning Commission shall fail to report
thereon within 45 days after receipt of a preliminary plan, then the Borough
Planning Commission may officially act without having received and considered
such report.
      D.   Within 60 days after submission of the preliminary plan, the
Planning Commission shall recommend to the Borough Council, in writing, that
the preliminary plan be approved or disapproved, together with the documented
findings upon which the recommendation is based.
   3.   By the Borough Council. Within 90 days after submission of the final
plan, the Borough Council shall take action by approving or disapproving the
preliminary plan and document the findings upon which that action is based, in
writing, to:
      A.   The developer or his or her representative.
      B.   The Office of Borough Manager.
      C.   The Borough Planning Commission.
      D.   The Borough Engineer.
      E.   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer.
      F.   The County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 240; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-206.   Submission of the Final Plan.
   1.   Within 12 months after approval of the preliminary plan, a final
subdivision or land development plan and all required supplemental data shall
be submitted to the Office of Borough Manager. An extension of time may be
granted by the Borough Planning Commission upon written request. Otherwise, the
plan submitted may be considered as a new preliminary plan.
   2.   The final plan shall conform in all significant respects to the
preliminary plan as previously reviewed by the Borough Planning Commission and
approved by the Borough Council and shall incorporate all modifications
required by the Borough Council in its preliminary plan approval. The Borough
Planning Commission may, however, accept a final plan modified so as to reflect
any substantial changes which have occurred on the site of the proposed
subdivision, or in its surroundings, since the time of preliminary plan review.
   3.   The final plan may be submitted in sections or stages, each covering a
reasonable portion of the entire proposed subdivision as shown on the reviewed
preliminary plan, in accordance with the regulations set forth in §
22-303. In the case of the final subdivision or land development plan, which is
to be submitted in sections or stages over a period of years, the time between
submission of application for final approval of each stage or section shall be
no greater than 12 months.
   4.   Final plans and all required supplementary data set forth in §
22-303 for all proposed subdivisions and land developments shall be submitted
to the designated Borough official.
   5.   If the final plan submission complies with §
22-303 of this Chapter, the designated Borough official shall accept the final
plan for distribution to the various review bodies.
   6.   Official submission of a final plan to the Office of Borough Manager by
a developer shall comprise:
      A.   Seven copies of a completed application for review of final
subdivision plan.
      B.   Submission of 5 black-on-white or blue-on-white prints on paper of
the final plan which shall fully comply with the provisions of this Chapter, as
set forth in §
22-303.
      C.   Submission of 5 copies of all required supplemental information, as
set forth in §
22-303.
   7.   The Office of Borough Manager shall refer final plan submission
materials to the various review bodies as follows:
      A.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Planning Commission.
      B.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Engineer.
      C.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the Borough Council for their information.
      D.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of supplemental information
to the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer.
      E.   One application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of the supplemental
information to the County Planning Commission.
      F.   Recorder’s Office. [A.O.]
      G.   Assessment. [A.O.]
   8.   Additional copies of the final plan materials shall be referred by the
Office of Borough Manager to the respective agencies in the following
circumstances:
      A.   Whenever the property being subdivided or developed abuts a state
legislative route, 1 application and 1 plan print shall be submitted to the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Regional Office.
      B.   Whenever the subdivision or land development requires a revision to
the official Borough sewage plan, or a water quality permit, as described in §§
22-302 and
22-405 of this Chapter, 1 application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of supplemental
information shall be submitted to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection. [A.O.]
      C.   Whenever the subdivision or land development requires a soil erosion
and sedimentation control permit, as described in §§
22-302 and
22-407 of this Chapter, 1 application, 1 plan print and 1 copy of supplemental
information shall be submitted to the County Conservation District.
      D.   Whenever a proposed subdivision or land development is located
adjacent to another municipality, 1 application and 1 plan print shall be
referred to that municipality.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 250; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-207.   Review of Final Plan.
   1.   By the County Planning Commission.
      A.   Within 45 days of the date of official submission, the staff of the
County Planning Commission shall review the final plan to determine its
conformance with regional plans and priorities and shall recommend such changes
and modifications as it may deem necessary or advisable in the public interest.
      B.   The County Planning Commission shall coordinate its review when
necessary with the appropriate state and county agencies, such as the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation and the County Conservation District; and adjacent
municipalities (when they are affected). [A.O.]
      C.   Upon completion of the review of the plan by the County Planning
Commission staff, written notice, including changes and modifications if any,
recommended by the County Planning Commission shall be sent to:
         (1)   The Office of Borough Manager for referral to the Borough
Planning Commission and the Borough Council.
         (2)   The Borough Engineer.
         (3)   The engineer, surveyor or land planner of the developer.
         (4)   The developer or his or her representative.
   2.   By the Borough Planning Commission.
      A.    When a final plan has been officially submitted, such plan shall be
placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for review at its next regular
monthly meeting; provided, that such official submission has occurred no less
than 10 calendar days prior to such regular meeting. The Planning Commission
may hold a public hearing on the preliminary plan at this time.
      B.   The Planning Commission shall review the final plan to determine its
conformance with the standards contained in this Chapter and other applicable
Borough ordinances and shall require or recommend such changes and
modifications as it deems necessary.
      C.   No action shall be taken by the Borough Planning Commission with
respect to a final plan until the Borough Planning Commission has received and
considered the written report of the County Planning Commission; provided,
however, that if the County Planning Commission shall fail to report thereon
within 45 days after receipt of a final plan, then the Borough Planning
Commission may officially act without having received and considered such
report.
      D.   Within 60 days after submission of the final plan, the Planning
Commission shall recommend to the Borough Council, in writing, that the final
plan be approved or disapproved, together with the documented findings upon
which the recommendation is based. The action of the Borough Planning
Commission shall be noted, together with the date of action and signatures of
its Chairman and Secretary on the final plan.
   3.   By the Borough Council.
      A.   Within 90 days after submission of the final plan, the Borough
Council shall take action by approving or disapproving the preliminary plan and
document the findings upon which that action is based, in writing, to:
         (1)    The developer or his or her representative.
         (2)   The Office of Borough Manager.
         (3)   The Borough Planning Commission.
         (4)   The Borough Engineer.
         (5)   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer.
         (6)   The County Planning Commission.
      B.   The action of the Borough Council shall be noted, together with the
date of action and signatures of its Chairperson and Secretary, on the final
plan. The Council shall document the findings and reasons upon which that
action is based, in writing, to the following:
         (1)   The developer or his or her representative.
         (2)   The Office of Borough Manager.
         (3)   The Borough Planning Commission.
         (4)   The Borough Engineer.
         (5)   The Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer.
         (6)   The County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 260; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-208.   Recording of the Final Plan.
   1.   After completion of the procedures set forth in §
22-503 and after the final plan is approved by the Borough Planning Commission
and the Borough Council, as many other copies of the final plan as may be
desired shall be endorsed by the Borough Planning Commission and the Borough
Council and the review stamp of the County Planning Commission. No subdivision
or land development plan may be recorded unless it bears Borough Planning
Commission and Borough Council, the corporate seal of the Borough and the
County Planning Commission review stamp.
   2.   The record plan shall be a clear and legible print of a type and
material required by the County Recorder of Deeds.
   3.   After endorsement by the Borough Planning Commission and the Borough
Council and the County Planning Commission review stamp, the developer shall
file the record plan with the County Recorder of Deeds within 90 days of the
date of final approval by the Borough Council. If the developer fails to record
the final plan within such period, the action of the Borough Council shall be
null and void, unless an extension of time is granted, in writing, by the
Borough Council upon written request by the developer.
   4.   At the time the record plan is endorsed by the Borough authorities, the
Borough Planning Commission shall receive 1 reproducible print of the final
plan, as approved, for their permanent files. The reproducible print for the
Borough shall be of a material as required by the Borough Planning Commission.
   5.   At the time the record plan is stamped and signed by the County
Planning Commission, the County Planning Commission shall receive 1 endorsed
black-on-white or blue-on-white prints of the final plan, as approved by the
Borough Council.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 270)
§ 22-209.   Plans Exempted from Standard Procedures.
   In the case of any proposed residential subdivision which does not, and will
not in the future, involve more than a total of 5 lots and does not involve the
provisions of any new street or easement for access (i.e., 1 in which all
proposed lots will have frontage on an existing public street), the following
procedure may, at the discretion of the developer, be followed:
   A.   The developer shall prepare a preliminary plan of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with §
22-302 of this Chapter. (The plan should also be consistent with the
requirements for final plans set forth in §
22-303 where the developer plans to resubmit the plan as a final plan as per
the option set forth in paragraph .D below).
   B.   Copies of the preliminary plan shall be submitted to the designated
Borough official, the County Planning Commission and other agencies in
accordance with §
22-205 of this Chapter.
   C.   The preliminary plan shall then be reviewed in accordance with the
procedure outlined in §
22-206 of this Chapter. The Borough Planning Commission and the County Planning
Commission shall make recommendations as to alterations and modifications.
   D.   Following preliminary plan approval, the developer may then prepare a
final plan in accordance with §
22-303 of this Chapter. The plan shall be submitted in accordance with §
22-206 of this Chapter. If, however, the preliminary plan is approved without
alterations and modifications and conforms to the requirements set forth in §
22-303, the developer may exercise the option of resubmitting the preliminary
plan as the final plan.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 280)
Part 3
Plan Recommendations
§ 22-301.   Feasibility Review.
   Before submission of the preliminary plan by the developer, maps and
materials shall be submitted by the developer to the Borough Planning
Commission, thus enabling the Commission to determine the potential of the
proposed subdivision feasibility of the developer’s plans for the tract. The
feasibility review submission will include the following maps and materials:
   A.   A key map, for the purpose of locating the property being subdivided,
drawn at a scale not smaller than 1 inch equals 1,000 feet and showing the
relation of the property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining
property and to all streets, roads, Borough boundaries and recorded subdivision
plans existing within 1 mile of any part of the property. The key map shall be
based on U.S.G.S. quad sheet maps.
   B.   A map illustrating an analysis of natural drainage patterns and water
resources within the proposed subdivision tract, including delineation of
streams, natural drainage swales, ponds and lakes, wetlands, floodplains
subject to a 100- year flood frequency and permanent and seasonal high water
table areas. The map shall be based on U.S.G.S. quad sheets, county soil survey
maps and the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map from the Borough Flood Insurance
Study, when available.
   C.   A map illustrating an analysis of types of soils present within the
proposed subdivision tract. The map should include delineation of prime
agricultural soil areas, soil with shallow depth to bedrock, soils most
susceptible to erosion, soils most suitable for urban development and soils
generally suitable for on-lot sewage disposal. The map shall be based on the
county soil survey.
   D.   A topographic map of the site, including a delineation of slope areas
under 5 percent, between 5 percent and 15 percent and over 15 percent. The
topographic map shall be based on the county soil survey and U.S.G.S. quad
sheets.
   E.   A map delineating additional significant physical features within the
proposed subdivision tract, such as woodland areas, large trees, rock
outcroppings and scenic views. The map shall be based on U.S.G.S. quad sheets
and on-site survey work.
   F.   Where feasible and legible, the analysis involved in paragraphs .A
through .E may be illustrated on 1 or a combination of composite maps. The
combined impact of the natural characteristics of the tract upon the
development potential of the tract shall be clearly illustrated on the map or
maps.
   G.   A letter of intent and a sketch of the proposed subdivision or land
development tract at a scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet, explaining and
illustrating the developer’s general development concepts for the tract. The
type of development, form of ownership, circulation patterns and means of
providing major utility service should be explained and illustrated. The sketch
may be based on deed and tax map information.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 300)
§ 22-302.   Preliminary Plan.
   1.   The preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision shall be clearly and
legibly drawn to a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or 1 inch equals 100 feet.
   2.   The original drawing and all submitted prints shall be made on sheets
of 1 of the following sets of dimensions:
      A.   18 inches by 24 inches.
      B.   24 inches by 36 inches.
      C.   36 inches by 48 inches.
   3.   If the preliminary plan requires more than 1 sheet, a key diagram
illustrating relative location of the several sections shall be drawn on each
sheet.
   4.   The preliminary plan shall illustrate the following data:
      A.   Name and address of record owner.
      B.   Name of developer if different from owner.
      C.   Name of the proposed subdivision.
      D.   Name of the municipality or municipalities within which subdivision
is proposed.
      E.   Names of all adjoining subdivisions, if any, and the names of owners
of all adjacent unplotted land with the tax book and page numbers where
recorded.
      F.   Name, address, license number and seal of registered engineer or
surveyor responsible for the subdivision plan and a certification of the
accuracy of the plan by the engineer or surveyor.
      G.   North point, graphic scale, written scale and date, including the
month, day and year that the original drawing was completed, and the month, day
and year that the original drawing was revised, for each revision.
      H.   A key map for the purpose of locating the property being subdivided,
drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 2,000 feet and showing the relation of the
property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining property and to all
streets, roads, municipal boundaries and recorded subdivision plans existing
within 1 mile of any part of the property.
      I.   Total tract boundaries of the property being subdivided, showing
bearings and distances, and a statement of total acreage of the property.
      J.   Tax map sheet, block and lot numbers within the proposed subdivision
tract from the County Tax Assessor’s office.
      K.   The zoning district or districts within which the proposed
subdivision is located.
      L.   All existing buildings or other structures within the proposed
subdivision tract.
      M.   All existing streets, including streets of record (recorded but not
constructed) on or adjoining the tract, including names, right-of-way widths,
pavement widths and approximate grades.
      N.   All existing sewer lines, water lines, fire hydrants, utility
transmission lines, culverts, bridges, railroads or other human-made features
within the proposed subdivision tract and within 200 feet of the boundaries of
the proposed subdivision tract.
      O.   Location, width and purpose of existing easements and utility
rights-of- way within 200 feet of the proposed subdivision tract.
      P.   Contour lines at vertical intervals of not more than 2 feet for land
with average natural slope of 5 percent or less, and at intervals of not more
than 5 feet for land with average natural slope exceeding 5 percent. Location
and elevation of the data to which contour elevations refer shall be the
closest United States Coast and Geodetic established benchmark, where
available.
   5.   The full plan of proposed development, including:
      A.   Location and width of all streets and rights-of-way, with statement
of any conditions governing their use.
      B.   Suggested street names and utility easement locations.
      C.   Building setback lines along each street.
      D.   Lot lines with approximate dimensions.
      E.   A statement of the intended use of all nonresidential lots and
parcels.
      F.   Lot numbers and a statement of the total number of lots and parcels.
      G.   Sanitary and/or storm sewers (and other drainage facilities), with
the size and material of each indicated, and any proposed connections with
existing facilities.
      H.   Parks, playgrounds and other areas dedicated or reserved for public
or common use, with any conditions governing such use.
      I.   Location, width and purpose of proposed easements and utility
rights-of- way.
      J.   Copies of the proposed deed restrictions, protective and restrictive
covenants referenced to the preliminary plan map.
   6.   The preliminary plan shall be accompanied by the following
supplementary data unless the Borough Planning Commission has determined that
the submission of such data is not necessary:
      A.   Preliminary profiles, typical cross sections and specifications for
proposed street, sanitary sewer, water system improvements, and storm drainage
in accordance to the design standards of §§ 22-404 through 22-407,
respectively.
      B.   A completed planning module for land development including soil and
representative percolation tests, where applicable, and information necessary
for the Borough Council to make a decision on revising or supplementing the
official plan for sewage facilities.
      C.   A copy of the permit granted by Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection for a private, centralized sanitary sewer system,
where applicable. [A.O.]
      D.   A copy of an agreement document with the governmental authority
which is to provide the water supply for the public water supply system, where
applicable.
      E.   A copy of the permit granted by Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection for a private, centralized water system, where
applicable. [A.O.]
      F.   A storm drainage plan for the propose subdivision tract which
conforms to design requirements for storm drainage as set forth in §
22-407.
      G.   A plan for minimizing erosion and sedimentation in accordance with
erosion and sediment control standards set forth in §
22-409.
      H.   A landscape plan, where applicable, and according to the standards
set forth in §
22-409, subsection .2, “Natural Feature Preservation.”
      I.   A plan providing utility service according to the standards set
forth in §
22-408 and applicable state and federal regulations.
      J.   In the case of subdivision or land development plans to be developed
in stages or sections over a period of time, a map delineating each stage or
section of the proposed subdivision or land development, consecutively numbered
so as to illustrate phasing of development and a schedule indicating the
approximate time for which applications for final approval of each stage or
section are intended to be filed.
      K.   Preliminary designs of any bridges or culverts which may be
required. Such designs shall meet all applicable requirements of Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Dams and Encroachments,
and/or the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. [A.O.]
      L.   A map illustrating the entire contiguous holdings of the landowner
indicating the area or scope of ultimate proposed subdivision and delineating
the area which the preliminary plan encompasses.
      M.   A sketch map of the proposed road system far the remainder of this
area not included in the preliminary plan.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 310; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-303.   Final Plans.
   1.   The final plans shall conform to the standards and data requirements
set forth for preliminary plans in §
22-302, subsections .1 through .5 of this Chapter.
   2.   It shall not be necessary to resubmit supporting maps and data
submitted with the preliminary plan, provided there has been no change.
   3.   The following additional data shall be illustrated on the final plan:
      A.   The latest source of title to the land as shown by the deed, page
number and book of the County Recorder of Deeds.
      B.   The total tract boundary lines of the area being subdivided with
accurate distances to hundredths of a foot and bearing to 15 seconds. These
boundaries shall be determined by accurate survey in the field, to an error of
closure not to exceed 1 foot in 10,000 feet. The tract boundary shall be
subsequently closed and balanced. The boundary(s) adjoining additional
unplatted land of the subdivider (for example, between separately submitted
final plan sections), however, are not required to be based upon field survey,
and may be calculated. The location and elevation of all boundary line
(perimeter) monuments shall be indicated, along with a statement of the total
area of the property being subdivided. In addition, the engineer or surveyor
shall certify to the accuracy of the survey, the drawn plan and the placement
of the monuments.
      C.   The following data for all proposed and existing streets:
         (1)   The name, proposed name or number of the street.
         (2)   The cartway width and cartway edge (curb lines) of the street.
         (3)   The right-of-way width and right-of-way lines of the street.
      D.   Block and/or lot numbers and a statement of the total number of
lots.
      E.   All lot lines shall be completely dimensioned in feet if straight
and if curved by designating length of arc and radius (in feet) and central
angle (in degrees, minutes and seconds). All internal angles within the lots
shall be designated to within 5 seconds.
      F.   The proposed building setback or the proposed placement of each
building.
      G.   Easement or rights-of-way where provided for or owned by public
services and any limitations on such easements or rights-of-way. Rights-of-way
shall be shown and accurately identified on the plan, and easements shall
either be shown or specifically described on the plan. Easements should be
located in cooperation with the appropriate public utilities.
      H.   Such private deed restrictions as may be imposed upon the property
as a condition to sale, together with a statement of any restrictions
previously imposed which may affect the title to the land being subdivided.
      I.   A statement of the intended use of all nonresidential lots or
parcels with reference to restrictions of any type which exist or will exist as
covenants in the deed for the lots or parcels contained in the subdivision and,
if covenants are recorded, including the book and page number of the County
Recorder of Deeds.
      J.   If the subdivision proposes a new street intersection with a state
legislative route, the occupancy permit number(s) shall be indicated for all
such intersections.
      K.   The location and elevation of all existing and proposed street
monuments as required by section.
      L.   A certification of ownership, acknowledgment of plan and offer of
dedication shall be lettered on the plan, and shall be duly acknowledged and
sign by the owner of the property and notarized.
      M.   A signature block for certification of approval of the plan by the
Borough Planning Commission and Borough Council.
      N.   Space shall be left, preferably adjacent to the Borough
certification, in which the review stamp and signature of the County Planning
Commission may be applied.
      O.   Space shall be left along the lower edge of the sheet, in order that
the County Recorder of Deeds may acknowledge receipt and recording of the plan
when it is presented.
      P.   If the final plan requires more than 1 sheet, key diagram showing
the relative location of the several sections shall be drawn on each sheet.
   4.   The final plan shall be accompanied by the following:
      A.   Plans showing:
         (1)   Location, size and invert elevation of all sanitary sewer, water
distribution and storm drainage systems and the location of all manholes,
inlets and culverts.
         (2)   Final profiles, cross sections and specifications for proposed
streets, sanitary sewers, water distribution systems and storm drainage systems
shall each be shown on 1 or more separate sheets.
      B.   Documentation from the Sewage Enforcement Officer that each lot has
been tested for on-lot sewage systems where applicable.
      C.   A completed and executed copy of the subdivision improvements
agreement as agreed upon by the developer and the Borough Council.
      D.   A performance guarantee in the amount of 120 percent of the cost of
all required improvements as set forth in §
22-503 as estimated by the Borough Engineer, in a form and with surety approved
by the Borough Solicitor, guaranteeing the construction and installation of all
such improvements within a stated period which shall not be longer than 1 year
from the date of final subdivision approval. Where the final plan is submitted
in stages or sections, the amount of the guarantee may also be provided in
stages if acceptable to the Borough Council.
      E.   A maintenance guarantee in an amount of not less than 5 percent of
the Borough Council’s estimate of the cost of all required improvements as set
forth in §
22-503, guaranteeing that the developer shall maintain all such improvements in
good condition for a period of 1 year after completion of construction and
installation of all such improvements and approval of all such improvements by
the Borough Council.
   5.   In the case of a subdivision or land development proposed to be
developed in stages or sections over a period of years, final plan requirements
as listed in subsections .1 through .5 of this section shall apply only to the
stage or section for which final approval is being sought. However, the final
plan presented for the stage or section must be considered as it relates to
information presented for the entire subdivision or land development in the
application for preliminary approval.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 320)
Part 4
Design Standards
§ 22-401.   Application.
   1.   The design standards and requirements outlined in this section will be
utilized by the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Council in determining
the adequacy of all plans for proposed subdivisions and land developments.
   2.   Development shall be planned, reviewed and carried out in conformance
with all Borough, state and other applicable laws and regulations.
   3.   Whenever other Borough ordinances or regulations impose more
restrictive standards and requirements than those contained herein, such other
regulations shall be observed.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 400)
§ 22-402.   General Standards.
   1.   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is be subdivided. Land
with unsafe or hazardous conditions such as open quarries, unconsolidated fill,
steep slopes or flood-prone areas shall not be subdivided unless the
subdivision plan provides for adequate safeguards which are approved by the
Borough Planning Commission and Borough Council.
   2.   Consideration shall be given to applicable provisions of the Borough
and the County Planning Commission’s Comprehensive Plan, emphasizing future
school sites, recreation sites, water supply and sewage treatment systems,
highway alignments and other public facilities. However, consideration must be
given to the need for the facilities and utilities mentioned above whether or
not they are proposed as part of a comprehensive plan.
   3.   The development of the proposed subdivision shall be coordinated with
adjacent existing development so that the area, as a whole, may develop
harmoniously.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 410)
§ 22-403.   Block and Lot Design Standards.
   1.   Block Layout. 1
      A.   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
         (1)   Provisions of adequate sites for buildings of the type proposed.
         (2)   Borough zoning requirements [Chapter 27].
         (3)   Topography.
         (4)   Requirements for safe and convenient vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, including the reduction of intersections with arterial streets.
   2.   Block Length.
      A.   Residential blocks shall ordinarily be no less than 500 feet in
length or no more than 1,800 feet in length.
      B.   In the design of block longer than 1,000 feet, special consideration
shall be given to the requirements of satisfactory fire protection.
      C.   Where practicable, blocks along arterial and collector streets shall
not be less than 1,000 feet long.
   3.   Block Depth.
      A.   Single-family residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to
accommodate 2 tiers of lots, except:
         (1)   Where reverse frontage lots are required.
         (2)   Where prevented by the size, topographical conditions or other
inherent conditions of property, in which case the Borough Planning Commission
and Borough Council may approve a single tier of lots.
   4.   Commercial and Industrial Blocks. Blocks in commercial, industrial,
multifamily and planned residential developments may vary from the elements of
design detailed above if required by the nature of the use. In all cases,
however, adequate provision shall be made for traffic and pedestrian
circulation, off-street parking and loading areas.
   5.   General Lot Design Standards.
      A.   Within the requirements of the Borough Zoning Ordinance [Chapter
27], the size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the type
of development and use contemplated.
      B.   Insofar as practical, side lot line shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      C.   Where feasible, lot lines shall follow Borough boundaries rather
than cross them, in order to avoid jurisdictional problems.
      D.   Generally, the depth of residential lots shall be not less than 1
nor more than 3 times their width.
      E.   Depth and width of parcels intended for nonresidential uses shall be
adequate for the use proposed and sufficient to provide satisfactory space for
on- site parking, loading and unloading, setbacks, landscaping and the like.
      F.   If after subdividing there exist remnants of land, they shall be
either:
         (1)   Incorporated in existing or proposed lots.
         (2)   Legally dedicated to public use, if acceptable to the Borough.
   6.   Lot Frontage. 2
      A.   All lots shall have direct access to an existing or proposed public
street or to a private street if it meets the street design requirements of
this Chapter.
      B.   Double or reverse frontage lots may be required to provide
separation of residential development from arterial streets or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography or other natural features of the proposed
subdivision tract.
      C.   All residential reverse frontage lots shall have a rear yard with a
minimum depth of 75 feet, measured along the shortest distance from the
proposed dwelling unit to the ultimate right-of-way and shall, within such rear
yard and immediately adjacent to the right-of-way, have a planting screen
easement of at least 10 feet in width, across which there shall be no right of
access.
   7.   Lot Access.
      A.   Residential lots having direct access to an arterial street shall be
avoided whenever possible. Where direct access to an arterial street cannot be
avoided, adequate turnaround space shall be provided behind the right-of-way
line.
      B.   Where access is permitted to a state road or highway, authorization
from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation must be proven by the
display of a valid highway occupancy permit. Driveways to single-family
residences shall intersect streets at angles of no less than 60 degrees. All
other driveways or access roads shall intersect streets at right angles, where
practicable, and in no case less than 75 degrees.
      C.   Widths of access roads or driveways shall be in accordance with the
following standards:
         (1)   Access roads for multifamily residential, mobile home parks and
all nonresidential subdivisions shall be no less than 20 feet in width, shall
not exceed 30 feet in width at the street line and shall be clearly defined by
use of curbing.
         (2)   Driveways for single-family residential subdivisions shall be no
less than 10 feet in width but shall not exceed 20 feet in width at the street
line.
      D.   To provide safe and convenient ingress and egress, access road and
driveway entrances shall be rounded at the following minimum radii:
         (1)   Access road entrances for multifamily residential developments,
mobile home parks and all nonresidential subdivisions shall be rounded at a
minimum radius of 10 feet.
         (2)   Driveway entrances for single-family residential subdivision
shall be rounded at a minimum radius of 5 feet.
      E.   Access road grades or driveway grades shall not exceed the following
grades within 50 feet of intersection with the street:
         (1)   Seven percent when access is to an arterial street.
         (2)   Ten percent when access is to a collector or local street.
      F.   The centerline of an access road or driveway at the point of access
to a street shall not be located closer to a street intersection than the
following distances:
         (1)   For single-family residential subdivisions:
            (a)   One hundred fifty feet if intersecting street is an arterial
street.
            (b)   One hundred feet if either street is a collector street.
            (c)   Seventy-five feet if both streets are local streets.
         (2)   For multifamily residential developments, mobile home parks and
all nonresidential subdivisions:
            (a)   Three hundred feet if either street is an arterial street.
            (b)   Two hundred feet if either street is a collector street.
            (c)   One hundred fifty feet if both streets are local streets.
         (3)   The centerline of an access road or a driveway shall not
intersect a street within 500 feet of an interchange with a limited access
highway.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 420)
 
Notes
     1Section 503(5) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §
  10503(5), permits provisions to encourage and promote flexibility, economy and
1 ingenuity in the layout and design of subdivisions and land development.
  Alternative block designs which vary from the suggested standards should be
  considered when such designs can more effectively be adapted to site
  characteristics, land uses or types of structures proposed.
     2As in block design, alternative lot configurations which vary from the
2 standards set forth here should be considered when such a configuration can more
  effectively be adapted to site characteristics, land uses and types of structures
  proposed.
§ 22-404.   Street Design Standards.
   1.   General Requirements.
      A.   Proposed streets shall be properly related to the road and highway
plans of the state, county and Borough. Streets shall be designed to provide
adequate vehicular access to all lots or parcels and with regard for
topographic conditions, projected volumes of traffic and further subdivision
possibilities in the area.
      B.   The street system of a proposed subdivision or land development
shall be designed to create a hierarchy of street functions which includes
collector and local streets.
      C.   The street system of a proposed subdivision or land development
shall be designed so as to minimize street intersections and pedestrian-
vehicular conflict points.
      D.   Proposed local street shall be designed so as to discourage through
traffic and excessive speeds. However, the developer shall give adequate
consideration to provision for the extension and continuation of arterial and
collector streets into and from adjoining properties.
      E.   Where, in the opinion of the Borough Planning Commission, it is
desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, streets shall be
extended, by dedication, to the boundary of such property. Distances between
access points to adjoining property shall be based on block length standards
set forth in §
22-403, subsection .2.
      F.   Where a subdivision abuts existing street of improper width or
alignment, the Borough Planning Commission may require the dedication of land
sufficient to widen the street or correct the alignment.
      G.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial traffic street, the Borough Planning Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage lots or other such treatment as will provide
protection for abutting properties, reduction in the number of intersections
with the arterial street and separation of local and through traffic. Where a
subdivision borders on or contains a limited access highway or a railroad
right-of-way, the Borough Planning Commission may require a service street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a distance
suitable for appropriate use of the intervening land between the right-of-way
and the service road. Such tracts of land may be used for park purposes in
residential districts or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate
districts.
      H.   Private streets (streets not to be offered for dedication) may be
approved by the Borough Planning Commission only if they meet the Commission
and Borough Council street design and improvement standards set forth in this
Chapter.
      I.   If the lots in the development are large enough for resubdivision,
or if a portion of the tract is not subdivided, suitable access and street
openings for such an eventuality shall be provided.
   2.   Street Right-of-Way and Cartway Widths.
      A.   Street right-of-way and cart way widths in proposed subdivisions
shall conform to the general standards below:
                          Street Design Standards
Classification of Streets Local Collector Arterial
                    Street Design Standards
Classification of   Local           Collector       Arterial
Streets
Right-of-Way Width1 0—50 ft.      50—60 ft.  80 ft.
Pavement Width      20—36 ft.     22—38 ft.  24—48 ft.
Traffic Lane Width2 10 ft.          11 ft.       12 ft.
Parking Lane Width3    8 ft. (when required)   
Sidewalk Width4     4 ft.           5 ft.           5 ft.
                    (when required) (when required) (when required)
Curbing5            Vertical curb, rolled curb and gutter or grassed drainage
                    swale with no curbing
1 Required street right-of-way widths may vary, depending upon what is
included within the street right-of-way. The main variables in determining
the required right-of-way width are the number of traffic lanes required,
whether or not parking lanes are required and whether curbs or drainage
swales are required.
2 The main variables in determining the required pavement width are the
number of traffic lanes required and whether or not parking lanes are
required.
3 The main variables in determining the required pavement width are the
number of traffic lanes required and whether or not parking lanes are
required.
4 The main variables in determining whether sidewalks should be required are
the density and type of the proposed development, nature of adjacent
development, the presence of sidewalks in adjacent developments and whether
the developer provides an interior pedestrian walkway system as an
alternative to sidewalks.
5 The main variables in determining whether curbs should be required or what
type of curb should be required are the traffic safety and storm drainage
requirements specific to the street and the presence of curbing in adjacent
developments. When traffic safety requirements and surrounding development
permit, grassed drainage swales are often preferable to curbs from the point
of view of lessening potential surface runoff problems.
 
      B.   The general standards set forth in §
22-404, subsection .2.A may be modified by the Borough Planning Commission upon
the recommendation of the Borough Engineer or PennDOT when an analysis of
proposed development densities, provisions for of-street parking, and projected
traffic volumes indicate a need for such modification. The burden of proof
shall be upon the developer to justify the adequacy of rights-of-way or cartway
widths which are less than those set forth in §
22-404, subsection .2.A.
   3.   Horizontal Curves.   
      A.   Whenever street centerlines are deflected more than 5 degrees within
500 feet, connection shall be made by horizontal curves.
      B.   Horizontal curves shall be designed to produce the following minimum
sight distances:
         (1)   Local streets–150 feet.
         (2)   Collector streets–300 feet.
         (3)   Arterial streets–600 feet.
      C.   A minimum tangent of 100 feet shall be required between curves on
collector and arterial streets and between a curve and a street intersection
where 1 of the intersecting streets is a collector or an arterial street.
   4.   Street Grades.   
      A.   There shall be a minimum centerline grade on all streets of 0.75
percent.
      B.   Unless approval is obtained from the Borough Planning Commission
uponrecommendation from the Borough Engineer, centerline grades shall not
exceed the following:
         (1)   Local streets–12 percent.
         (2)   Collector streets–8 percent.
         (3)   Arterial streets–6 percent.
      C.   Intersections shall be approached on all sides by leveling areas.
Such leveling areas shall have a minimum length of 75 feet (measured from the
intersection of the centerlines), within which no grade shall exceed a maximum
of 4 percent.
   5.   Vertical Curves.
      A.   Vertical curves shall be used in changes of grade exceeding 1
percent.
      B.   Vertical curves shall be designed to produce the following minimum
site distances:
         (1)   Local streets–150 feet.
         (2)   Collector streets–300 feet.
         (3)   Arterial streets–600 feet.
   6.   Street Intersections.
      A.   Streets shall intersect at right angles whenever practicable. When
local streets intersect collector or arterial streets, the angle of
intersection at the street centerlines shall in no case be less than 75
degrees. No 2 streets shall intersect with an angle of intersection at the
centerlines of less than 60 degrees.
      B.   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than 2 streets
shall be prohibited.
      C.   Two streets intersecting a third street from opposite sides shall
either intersect with a common centerline or their centerlines shall be offset
according to the following distances:
         (1)   The 2 streets shall be separated by a distance of 150 feet
between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when all 3 streets involved are local streets.
         (2)   The 2 streets shall be separated by a distance of 400 feet
between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when 1 or more of the streets involved is a collector street.
         (3)   The 2 streets shall be separated by a distance of 1,000 feet
between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when 1 or more of the streets involved is an arterial street.
      D.   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a tangential arc with
a minimum radius of:
         (1)   Twenty feet for intersections involving only local streets.
         (2)   Thirty feet for all intersections involving a collector street.
         (3)   Forty feet for all intersections involving an arterial street.
      E.   Street right-of-way lines shall be parallel to, or concentric with,
curb arcs at centerlines.
      F.   Clear sight triangles shall be provided at all street intersections.
Within such triangles no object greater than 2-1/2 feet in height and no other
object that would obscure the vision of the motorist shall be permitted. Such
triangles shall be established from a distance of:
         (1)   Seventy-five feet from the point of intersection of the
centerlines of 2 streets where both are local streets.
         (2)   One hundred feet from the point of intersection of the
centerlines of 2 streets where 1 is a collector street.
         (3)   One hundred fifty feet from the point of intersection of the
centerlines of 2 streets where 1 is an arterial street.
      G.   Wherever a portion of the line of such triangles occurs within the
proposed building setback line, such portion shall be shown on the final plan
of the subdivision and shall be considered a building setback line.
   7.   Cul-de-Sacs.   
      A.   Dead end streets are prohibited un less designed as cul-de-sac
streets or designed for future access to adjoining properties.
      B.   Any dead end street which is constructed for future access to an
adjoining property or because of authorized stage development, and which is
open to traffic and exceeds 200 feet in length, shall be provided with a
temporary, all-weather turning circle. The turning circle shall be completely
within the boundaries of the subdivision and the use of the turnaround shall be
guaranteed to the public until such time as the street is extended.
      C.   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed
1,000 feet in length or shall nor furnish access to more than 25 dwelling
units. In the case of the industrial parks, culs-de-sac shall not furnish
access to more than 100 employees. Exemptions from these requirements may be
granted where necessary due to unique characteristics of the site.
      D.   All cul-de-sac streets, whether permanently or temporarily designed
as such, shall be provided at the closed end with a fully paved turning circle.
The turning circle may be offset to the left but turnarounds offset to the
right shall be discouraged.
         (1)   If parking will be prohibited on the turning circle, the minimum
radius of the right-of-way line shall be 50 feet.
         (2)   If parking will be permitted on the turning circle, the minimum
radius to the pavement edge or curb line shall be 50 feet, and the minimum
radius of the right-of-way line shall be 60 feet.
      E.   The centerline grade on a cul-de-sac street shall not exceed 10
percent, and the grade of the diameter of the turnaround shall not exceed 5
feet.
   8.   Half Streets.
      A.   The dedication of new half streets at the perimeter of a new
subdivision is prohibited.
      B.   The subdivider shall provide the entire required right-of-way, or as
much thereof as is possible, within his or her property, along all existing
streets which traverse or abut the property.
   9.   Street Names and Street Signs.
      A.   Proposed streets which are in alignment with others already existing
and named shall bear the name of the existing streets.
      B.   In no case shall the name of a proposed street duplicate an existing
street name in the Borough and in the postal district, irrespective of the use
of the suffix street, road, avenue, boulevard, driveway, place, court, lane and
the like.
      C.   All street names shall be subject to the approval of the Borough
Council.
      D.   Street signs shall be provided at the intersection of all streets.
The type, height and design shall be approved by Borough Council.(Ord. 78-4, 5/
15/1978, § 430)
§ 22-405.   Sanitary Sewage Disposal.
   1.   The developer shall provide the most effective type of sanitary sewage
disposal consistent with the Borough’s official plan for sewage facilities
prepared in accordance with the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., and 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 71, of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection regulations. [A.O.]
   2.   The land development module, official plan supplement/revision
documentation and the results of on-lot sanitary sewer as required by 25
Pa.Code, Chapters 71 and 73, the Department of Environmental Protection’s
regulations shall all be submitted by the developer as part of the subdivision/
land development review process in accordance with §§ 22-302 and 22-303 of this
Chapter. [A.O.]
   3.   Connection to a public sanitary sewer system shall be required where
such a system is proposed by the Borough’s official plan for sewage facilities,
can feasibly be provided to the proposed subdivision tract and where such a
system can adequately fulfill the sewage disposal needs of the subdivision or
land development.
   4.   Where a public sanitary sewer system is not yet accessible to the site,
but is planned for extension to the subdivision within a 10-year period, the
developer shall install sewer lines, including lateral connections, as may be
necessary to provide adequate service to each lot when connection with the
sewer system is made. The sewer lines shall be suitably capped at the street
right-of-way line. When capped sewers are provided, on-site disposal facilities
shall also be provided. Design of the capped system shall be in accordance with
the standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and
shall be subject to the approval of the Borough Council. [A.O.]
   5.   Where a private centralized sanitary sewer system is proposed by the
developer, the Borough Council must revise the official plan for sewage
facilities, by resolution, indicating that the Borough has approved the system
concept. A copy of the resolution shall be submitted with the preliminary plan
supplemental materials. A permit for construction of a private centralized
sanitary sewer system must be issued to the developer before approval of the
final subdivision/land development plan. A copy of the permit shall be
submitted with the final plan supplement materials.
   6.   In subdivision/land developments where neither connection to a public
sewage system or a private centralized sewage system is contemplated, on-lot
sewage disposal systems shall be provided in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 73,
Department of Environmental Protection regulations and the requirements of the
Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer. Results of the on-lot system tests and the
requirements imposed by the Sewage Enforcement Officer for on-lot systems must
be submitted with the preliminary plan supplemental materials. [A.O.]
   7   Sanitary sewerage systems shall be located and/or designed to minimize
flood damage and minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system or discharges from the system into floodwaters.
   8.   On-lot sewage disposal systems shall be located and/or designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 440; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-406.   Water Supply and Distribution Systems.  3  2
   The developer shall provide a water supply and distribution system to
service the proposed subdivision through 1 of the following methods:
   A.   Connection to a public water supply system where such a system can
feasibly be provided to the proposed subdivision tract and where the capacity
of such a system can adequately fulfill the water supply demands of the
proposed subdivision. A distribution system shall be designed to furnish an
adequate supply of water to each lot. A copy of the approval document for such
a system by the appropriate public authority or utility company shall be
submitted with the final plan supplementary material.
   B.   Where a public water supply system is planned to serve the proposed
subdivision within 10 years, a centralized water system will be provided by the
developer where the subdivision involves 20 or more dwelling units unless the
average residential lot size is 1 acre or larger and may be provided otherwise.
Whenever such a system is provided, the water distribution lines should be
dedicated to the appropriate public authority and the authority will acquire
other parts of the water supply system such as wells, pumps and storage tanks
that can be integrated into the public water system. This will take place after
the improvements are completed so that the system can be operated by the public
authority. A copy of the approval of such a system by the appropriate public
authority shall be submitted with the final plan. Also, such a system shall be
designed and constructed in a manner that would permit adequate connection to a
public water supply system in the future. Design and construction standards for
centralized water systems are set forth in
Appendix 22-A.
   C.   Where a public water supply is not proposed within 10 years in the area
of the proposed subdivision and where the average residential lot size is to be
less than 1 acre, a centralized water system will be provided by the developer
unless the subdivision involves less than 20 dwelling units and may be provided
otherwise. Design and construction standards for centralized water supply
systems are set forth in
Appendix 22-A.
   D.   Where a centralized water system is contemplated, a feasible water
supply and distribution system shall be proposed before preliminary approval of
the subdivision/land development. Detailed plans and specifications for the
water system shall be submitted together with final plan materials. A permit
for the system must be granted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection before final approval of the subdivision/land development. [A.O.]
   E.   Centralized water systems shall be developed and maintained so as to
meet the standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
under 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 109, “Waterworks,” of its rules and regulations and
the “Public Water Supply Manual,” Bureau of Water Quality Management
Publication No. 15, 2nd edition. All centralized water systems that remain
privately owned shall be organized in a manner as to fall within the
jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. [A.O.]
   F.   Where individual on-lot well systems are to be utilized, Part 3 of
Department of Environmental Protection’s “Public Water Supply Manual” should be
consulted to determine general design and construction standards for water
supply wells. Required separation distances between on-lot water supply systems
and sewage disposal systems are contained in 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 73, of
Department of Environmental Protection regulations. [A.O.]
   G.   Water supply systems shall be located and designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 450; as amended by A.O.)
 
Notes
        The JPC report “Privately Owned Water Supply Systems,” indicates that adequate
  centralized water supply systems have not always been guaranteed by Pennsylvania
3 Department of Environmental Protection and Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
  regulations and enforcement procedures. Standards for centralized systems are offered
  in Appendix 22-A so the Borough can regulate such systems through the subdivi sion/
  land development process.
     3The JPC report “Privately Owned Water Supply Systems,” indicates that adequate
  centralized water supply systems have not always been guaranteed by Pennsylvania
2 Department of Environmental Protection and Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
  regulations and enforcement procedures. Standards for centralized systems are offered
  in Appendix 22-A so the Borough can regulate such systems through the subdivi sion/
  land development process.
§ 22-407   Storm Drainage Systems.
   1.   Storm drainage systems shall be provided in order to:
      A.   Permit unimpeded flow of natural watercourses except or as modified
by storm-water detention facilities required by subsection .3 below or open
channels pursuant to subsection .2.H below.
      B.   Ensure adequate drainage of all low points along the line of
streets.
      C.   Intercept stormwater runoff along streets at intervals related to
the extent and grade of the area drained.
      D.   Provide positive drainage away from on-site sewage disposal systems.
      E.   Take surface water from the bottom of vertical grades, lead water
from springs and avoid excessive use of cross gutters at street intersections
and elsewhere.
      F.   Prevent overloading of drainage systems and watercourses downstream
as a result of increased runoff caused by the proposed development.
   2.   General Requirements.
      A.   A site drainage plan for the proposed subdivision tract shall be
prepared which illustrates the following information:
         (1)   Mapping of the watershed area or areas in which the proposed
subdivision is located.
         (2)   Calculations of runoff for all points of runoff concentration.
         (3)   Complete drainage systems for the subdivision. All existing
drainage features which are to be incorporated in the design shall be so
identified. If the subdivision is to be developed in stages, a general drainage
plan for the entire subdivision shall be presented with the first stage and
appropriate development stages for the drainage system shall be indicated.
      B.   The existing points of natural drainage discharge onto adjacent
property shall not be altered without the written approval of the affected
landowners.
      C.   No stormwater runoff or natural drainage shall be so diverted as to
overload existing drainage systems, or create flooding or the need for
additional public lands, without approved provisions being made by the
developer for properly handling such conditions.
      D.   Storm drainage systems shall be designed to convey through the land
development the peak runoff that will occur when all tributary areas upstream
are developed to the extent reasonably projected during the next 40 years. 4
The calculation of this runoff rate shall take into account the land use and
development regulations, including runoff controls, in effect in the tributary
areas.
      E.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse other than
permanent streams, there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming
substantially with the line of such watercourse. The width of the easement
shall be adequate to provide for unimpeded flow of storm runoff based on
calculations made in conformance with subsection .4 below and to provide a
freeboard allowance of 1-1/2 feet above the design water surface level. The
terms of the easement shall prohibit excavation, the placing of fill or
structures and any alterations which may adversely affect the flow of
stormwater within any portion of the easement. Also, periodic cutting of
vegetation in all portions of the easement shall be required.
      F   Drainage facilities that are located on state highway rights-of-way
shall be approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and a letter
indicating such approval shall be directed to the Borough Planning Commission.
      G.   All streets shall be designed so as to provide for the discharge of
surface water away from their rights-of-way.
      H.   When it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Borough Engineer
that, due to topographic conditions, natural drainage swales on the site cannot
adequately provide for drainage, open channels may be constructed conforming
substantially to the line and grade of such natural drainage swales. Capacities
of open channels shall be calculated using the Manning equation as explained in
Appendix 22-C.
      I.   Storm drainage facilities and appurtenances shall be so designed and
provided as to minimize erosion in watercourse channels and at all points of
discharge.
   3.   Stormwater Detention.
      A.   Stormwater detention facilities shall be used whenever increased
runoff from the land development would overload drainage systems or cause
significant increases in flood levels in any watercourses downstream. This will
be determined by comparing the increase in runoff caused by the land
development with the existing runoff rates and capacity of downstream drainage
systems and watercourses.
      B.   Whenever detention facilities are required under subsection .3.A
above, facilities will be designed to provide that the peak runoff rate at all
points of discharge from the site, when developed, will not exceed the peak
runoff rate at each of those points prior to development unless existing or
planned detention facilities located elsewhere in the same drainage basin will
provide that the peak runoff rate from the drainage basin after the site is
developed will not exceed the peak runoff rate prior to development. In cases
where the developer is required to rely on detention facilities constructed by
the Borough which fee will be determined by prorating the total cost of such
detention facilities according to the fraction of the total storage capacity
required by the development. 5  3
      C.   Where detention facilities are included as part of the storm
drainage system, the following provisions will apply:
         (1)   Detention ponds shall be designed so that they return to normal
conditions within approximately 12 hours after the termination of the storm,
unless the Borough Engineer finds that downstream conditions may warrant other
design criteria for stormwater release.
      D.   The developer shall demonstrate that such ponds are designed,
protected and located to assure that public safety is maximized and health
problems are prevented.
      E.   The developer shall verify that the operation of the detention
facilities will not aggravate potential downstream peaking conditions.
      F.   Emergency overflow facilities shall be provided for detention
facilities to handle runoff in excess of design flows.
      G.   If the lands of the proposed land development will remain in common
ownership, the developer shall provide written assurances to the Borough that
the detention ponds will be properly maintained.
      H.   If the lands of the proposed land development will be conveyed to 2
or more separate owners, the developer shall provide written assurances to the
Borough that the detention ponds will be properly maintained, or dedicate the
land on which the detention ponds are located to the Borough, which shall then
be responsible for maintaining the detention ponds.
   4.   Calculations of Runoff and Design Storm Frequency.
      A.   Storm drainage systems required by this Chapter shall be designed to
provide protection from a 10- to 100-year storm as determined by the Borough
Planning Commission. A 10-year design storm would be appropriate where a storm
in excess of the design storm would have minor impact such as in convenience to
traffic on local streets. A 100-year design storm would be appropriate where a
storm in excess of the design storm would cause damage to existing or future
structures or their contents.
      B.   Stormwater runoff from watersheds of 200 or less acres shall be
calculated by the rational method as described in Manual Number 37 of the
American Society of Civil Engineers. The rational method of runoff calculation
is explained in Appendix 22-C. 6
      C.   Stormwater runoff from watersheds of more than 200 acres shall be
calculated using the soil cover complex method developed by the Soil
Conservation Service or other appropriate method acceptable to the Borough
Engineer.
      D.   The Manning equation explained in Appendix 22-C shall be used in
calculating capacities of watercourses and storm sewers except culverts, which
shall be designed using methods acceptable to the Borough Engineer.
      E.   Complete detailed drainage calculations certified by the design
engineer shall be submitted to the Borough Engineer.
   5.   Improvement Specifications.
      A.   Inlets shall be designed and/or located to prevent hazardous
conditions for vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians.
      B.   The Borough Engineer should add additional specifications which may
be necessary for:
         (1)   Spacing and type of inlets and manholes.
         (2)   Minimum pipe sizes.
         (3)   Materials and construction methods.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 460)
 
Notes
4 4 The Borough Engineer may recommend a different design period.
  5 The part of this section beginning with “unless existing or planned . . .” should
5 be included only if the municipality is planning to become involved in constructing
  detention basins to meet detention needs on a watershed basin.
     5The part of this section beginning with “unless existing or planned . . .” should
3 be included only if the municipality is planning to become involved in constructing
  detention basins to meet detention needs on a watershed basin.
     6The Borough Engineer may want to specify different required or alternate methods
6 of calculating runoff. This section is written to require use of the rational method
  only because it is the commonly used and accepted method in the area.
§ 22-408.   Underground Utilities and Utility Easements.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission
Investigation Docket No. 99, as amended from time to time, all electric utility
distribution lines shall be installed underground in subdivisions or land
developments of 5 or more dwelling units. In addition, the following design
requirements shall be observed:
      A.   Established public utility and state and federal governmental agency
design standards shall be observed in preparing the utility plan.
      B.   Utility lines to be installed within street rights-of-way shall be
located according to Borough or Borough authority requirements.
      C.   Whenever practicable, telephone and cable TV utilities shall be
installed underground in connection with the installation of electric utility
distribution lines.
      D.   Street lighting, where required, shall be provide at each
intersection of the development and at intervals not to exceed 350 feet between
intersections.
      E.   Utility lines shall be installed after final grading of roads,
curbs, sidewalks and driveways has been established. Utility lines shall be
installed at the greatest depth, being installed first.
   2.   Utility Easements.
      A.   Utility easements shall be provided for all utility lines servicing
the abutting lots when such utility lines are installed outside street rights-
of-way. No structures or trees shall be placed within such easements. The
location of utility easements shall be acceptable to the appropriate public
utility or Borough authority.
      B.   Whenever practicable within accepted safety standard, all utility
lines to be installed outside street rights-of-way and shall share a common
utility easement.
      C.   Utility easements shall be located either:
         (1)   Abutting the street right-of-way. In this case a minimum
easement width of 10 feet shall be required.
         (2)   Along rear or side lot lines. In this case, a minimum easement
width of 20 feet, 10 feet on each side of the lot line, shall be provided.
Where the lot line coincides with the subdivision boundary, a minimum easement
width of 15 feet may be required by the Borough Council.
   3.   Petroleum Transmission Lines.
      A.   No company intending to install any petroleum, petroleum products or
natural gas transmission line shall be allowed to construct the line on less
than a 50-foot right-of-way, such line to be installed in the center of the
right-of-way, and shall comply with the applicable standards imposed by state
and federal laws and regulations.
      B.   There shall be a minimum distance of 25 feet, measured from the
right-of- way line, between any proposed dwelling unit and any petroleum,
petroleum products or natural gas transmission line which traverses the
subdivision.
   4.   Floodproofing. Facilities for gas, electric and communication utilities
shall be elevated or floodproofed to a level at least 1 foot above the 100-year
flood elevation.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 470)
§ 22-409.   Environmental Protection and Open Space Preservation.
   1.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control.
      A.   All earthmoving activities shall be conducted in such way as to
prevent accelerated erosion and the resulting sedimentation.
      B.   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land; no grading,
excavating, removal or destruction of the topsoil, trees or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until a plan setting forth erosion and
sedimentation control measures for the site has been developed.
      C.   The soil erosion and sedimentation control plan and measures used to
control erosion and sedimentation shall meet the standards and specifications
set forth in the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection’s “Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Manual” and 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 102, of the
rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection. [A.O.]
      D.   All erosion and sedimentation control plans shall be submitted with
the final plan as set forth in §
22-303 of this Chapter.
      E.   Where the earthmoving activity affects 25 acres or more, the soil
erosion and sedimentation control plan must be submitted to the County
Conservation District, together with an application permit for an earthmoving
permit for review. An earthmoving permit must be granted by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection. [A.O.]
      F.   Where the earth moving activity affects less than 25 acres, the
Borough Planning Commission shall require submission of the erosion and
sedimentation control plan to the County Conservation District for their review
and recommendations at the discretion of the Borough Planning Commission in
cases where proposed earthmoving activity may contribute to potential erosion
and sedimentation problems.
   2.   Natural Feature Preservation.
      A.   The design and development of all subdivisions and land developments
shall preserve, whenever possible, natural features which will aid in providing
adequate open space for recreation and conditions generally favorable to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents. Some of these natural features are
the natural terrain of the site, woodland areas, large trees, natural
watercourses and bodies of water, wetlands, rock out-croppings and scenic
views. More detailed standards concerning the preservation of specific natural
features are set forth in the following subsections.
      B.   Floodplain Regulation.
         (1)   A map illustrating flood elevations for the tract for a 100-year
flood, where applicable, shall be submitted as part of the feasibility review
materials as set forth in §
22-301. The flood elevation map shall be based on the Borough Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) 7 . When not available, the map shall be based on estimated
100-year flood elevation or estimated areas subject to flooding based on best
available data.
         (2)   A developer shall adhere to the following standards within areas
designated as regulatory floodways and flood fringe areas on the flood
elevation map:
            (a)   No buildings are to be constructed in regulatory floodways.
Other encroachments may be permitted provided that the encroachment will not
cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation at any point. Consideration
of the effects of a proposed use shall be based on a reasonable assumption that
there will be an equal degree of encroachment extending for a significant reach
on both sides of the stream.
            (b)   Structures may be permitted in flood fringe areas provided
that the lowest floor (including basement) is elevated at least 1 foot above
the 100-year flood elevation and that the proposed improvements will not
increase the water surface elevation of the 100-year flood by more than 1 foot
at any point. The lowest floor of nonresidential structures may be constructed
below the 100-year flood elevation; provided, that below this elevation the
structure is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and is designed with structural components having the capability of
resisting forces caused by floodwaters.
      C.   Lake, Stream and River Frontage Preservation.
         (1)   An easement for maintenance purposes, a minimum of 20 feet in
width, but in all cases, of sufficient width to provide proper maintenance,
shall be provided along all stream and river banks and lake shores.
         (2)   Lake, stream and river frontage shall be preserved as open space
whenever possible. This area may be credited toward the open space requirement
set forth in subsection .3 below.
         (3)   Access to the water and maintenance easement area shall be
provided at intervals of not more than 1/2 mile. These access points shall not
be less than 100 feet in width.
      D.   Tree Preservation and Planting.
         (1)   Trees 6 inches or more in diameter (measured at a height 4-1/
2 feet above grade) shall not be removed unless they are located within the
proposed cartway or sidewalk portion of a street right-of-way or within 15 feet
of the foundation area of a new building. Areas in which trees are retained
shall remain at original grade level and undisturbed wherever possible.
         (2)   Where no existing trees are retained along street rights-of-way,
trees shall be planted at intervals of between 50 and 100 feet, but in no
instance shall there be less than 1 tree per lot.
         (3)   Trees shall not be retained or planted within 3 feet of the
street curb or the sidewalk. Trees may be retained or planted between the
street curb and the sidewalk if there is a minimum distance of 6 feet.
         (4)   For all commercial, industrial, planned residential, mobile home
park and multifamily developments a landscape plan shall be developed. The plan
shall show the plant cover which exists, and on the same or separate sheet,
that which will exist when the landscaping is completed.
         (5)   The landscape plan shall include trees in addition to those
required along the street right-of-way. The following standards are to be used
as a guide to the number, not the spacing or location, of additional trees
required:
            (a)   One tree per dwelling unit.
            (b)   One tree per 50 linear feet of interior street.
      E.   Topography. The natural terrain of the proposed subdivision tract
will be retained wherever possible with cut and fill operations being kept to a
minimum. Areas with slopes greater than 15 percent shall generally not be
planned for developed uses. If such land is planned for development, the
natural slope of the building site or sites shall be 15 percent or less. The
building site shall be at least 50 feet by 80 feet.
      F.   Topsoil Protection. Topsoil shall not be removed from the
development site or used as fill. Topsoil shall be removed from the areas of
construction and stored separately. The topsoil shall be stabilized to minimize
erosion during storage. Upon completion of the construction, topsoil must be
uniformly redistributed on the site.
   3.   Open Space and Recreation Areas.
      A.   In proposed subdivisions which are intended to provide housing for
more than 50 families, Borough Council, upon recommendation of the Borough
Planning Commission, may require that the developer dedicate land for open
space and recreation in accordance with the following guidelines:
 
Families to be Served            Minimum Open Space and Recreation Acreages
50—174                      3.0
175—374                     5.5
375—624                     6.5
625—800                     8.0
For each additional 175 families 1.5
 
      B.   Where a neighborhood recreation facility exists or is planned within
1/2 mile of all homes within the proposed subdivision, and where the recreation
area adequately fulfills the recreational needs of the residents of the
proposed subdivision, cash in lieu of open space dedication may be accepted at
the discretion of Borough Council. The cash in lieu of open space dedication
must be used for the purchase or development of the neighborhood recreational
area.
      C.   In proposed subdivisions intended to provide housing for less than
50 families, cash in lieu of open space dedication may be required by the
Borough Council and must be used for recreational purposes in accordance with
the standards set forth in subsection .3.B above.
      D.   Where cash in lieu of open space dedication is required, the amount
of such fee shall be based upon the fair market value of the amount of land
which would otherwise be required to be dedicated in accordance with the
standards set forth in subsection .3.B above.
      E.   Fair market value shall be determined at which time the final
subdivision or land development plan is submitted to the Borough Planning
Commission and in accordance with the following:
         (1)   The fair market value as determined by Borough Council as based
upon current appraisals.
         (2)   If the developer objects to such amount of evaluation he or she
may, at his or her expense, obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified
real estate appraiser approved by Borough Council, which appraisal may be
accepted by Borough Council if found reasonable.
         (3)   The Borough Council and the developer may agree as to the fair
market value.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 490; as amended by A.O.)
 
Notes
  7 Possible sources of data where a FIRM is not available are Flood Plain
  Informa tion Reports (Corps of Engineers), U.S.G.S. or DRBC reports, U.S.G.S.
7 maps of floodprone areas, FIA Flood Hazard Boundary Maps and alluvial soils.
  Flood elevation data are not available from some of these sources. For major
  proposals, some independent analysis by the developer’s engineer would be
  appropriate to estimate flood elevations.
Part 5
Improvement Specifications
§ 22-501.   General Requirements.
   1.   Physical improvements to the subdivision/land development tract shall
be provided, constructed and installed as shown on the record plan, in
accordance with the requirements of the Borough Council.
   2.   As a condition to review of a final plan by the Borough Planning
Commission, the developer shall agree with the Borough Council as to
installations of all improvements shown on the plan and required by this
Chapter. Before the record plan may be endorsed by the Borough Council, the
developer shall submit a completed and executed original copy of the
subdivision improvements agreements and performance and maintenance guarantees
in the amount required by §
22-503.
   3.   All improvements installed by the developer shall be constructed in
accordance with the design specifications of the Borough Council. The Borough
Council shall instruct the Borough Engineer to prepare improvement
specifications for a required improvement in cases where no applicable
municipal specifications exist.
   4.   Supervision of the installation of those improvements required by §
22-502, following, shall in all cases be the responsibility of the Borough
Council and Borough Engineer.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 500)
§ 22-502.   Required Improvements.
   Improvements shall be provided, constructed and installed by the developer
as stated in the improvements agreement, shown on the record plan, and in
accordance with the design standards set forth in Part 4 of this Chapter. The
following improvements will be required in all applicable cases:
   A.   Street excavating, grading, subgrade preparation, base course paving
and surface course paving, installed according to Borough specifications.
   B.   Concrete curbing of the vertical type, the rolled curb or gutter type
or stabilized shoulder and drainage swale with no curbing, installed according
to Borough specifications.
   C.   Concrete sidewalks or interior walkways installed according to Borough
specifications.
   D.   Sanitary sewer system improvements installed according to the
specification of the Borough, the appropriate government authority and the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. [A.O.]
   E.   Water supply and distribution system improvements installed according
to the specifications of the Borough, the appropriate governmental authority
and Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. [A.O.]
   F.   Storm drainage system improvements installed according to Borough
specifications.
   G.   Improvements installed to control soil erosion and sedimentation
installed according to the specifications of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection. [A.O.]
   H.   Monuments and markets installed according to Borough specifications.
   I.   Fire hydrants installed according to the specifications of the Borough
and the appropriate government authority.
   J.   Street lights in accordance with conditions to be agreed upon by the
developer, the Borough Council and the appropriate public utility.
   K.   Street signs installed according to Borough specifications.
   L.   Shade trees planted according to Borough specifications.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 510; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-503.   Improvements Guarantee Procedure.
   1.   Before the Borough Council approves any final plan and as a
prerequisite for approval, the developer shall deliver to the Borough Council a
performance guarantee in the amount of 110 percent of the cost of all
improvements required by this Chapter, as estimated by the Borough Engineer, in
a form and with a surety approved by the Borough Solicitor, guaranteeing the
construction and installation of all such improvements within a stated period
which shall not be longer than 1 year from the date of final subdivision
approval. Upon written application signed by both the obligor and surety of a
performance guarantee, in a form approved by the Borough Solicitor, the Borough
Council may, at their discretion, extend said period by not more than 3
additional years or, when the improvements have been partially completed,
reduce proportionally the amount of the performance guarantee by formal
resolution. In the event of default under a performance guarantee, the proceeds
of the performance grantee received by the Borough shall be used to construct
and install improvements.
   2.   Before Borough Council approves any final plan, and as a prerequisite
for approval, the developer shall deliver to Borough Council a maintenance
guarantee in an amount of not less than 5 percent nor more than 15 percent of
the Borough Engineer’s estimate of the cost of all improvements required by
this Chapter, guaranteeing that the developer shall maintain such improvements
in good condition for a period of 1 year after completion of construction and
installation of all such improvements and approval of all such improvements by
Borough Council.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 520; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-504.   Approval of Improvements and Release of Performance Guarantee by
Borough Council.
   1.   When the developer has installed or constructed all required
improvements as set forth in §
22-502, the developer shall notify the Borough Council, in writing, by
certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid improvements
and shall send a copy thereof to the Borough Engineer. The Borough Council
shall, within 10 days after receipt of such notice, direct and authorize the
Borough Engineer to inspect all of the aforesaid improvements. The Borough
Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report, in writing, with the Borough Council,
and shall promptly mail a copy of the same to the developer by certified or
registered mail. The report shall be made and mailed within 30 days after
receipt by the Borough Engineer of the aforesaid authorization from the Borough
Council; said report shall be detailed and shall recommend approval or
rejection of said improvements, either in whole or in part, and if said
improvements, or any portion thereof, shall not be recommended for approval by
the Borough Engineer, said report shall contain a statement of reasons for such
nonapproval or rejection.
   2.   The Borough Council shall notify the developer, in writing, by
certified or registered mail, of the action of said Borough Council with
relation thereto.
   3.   If the Borough Council or the Borough Engineer fails to comply with the
time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be deemed to
have been approved and the developer shall be released from all liability,
pursuant to its performance guarantee bond.
   4.   If any portion of the said improvements shall not be approved or shall
be rejected by the Borough Council, the developer shall proceed to complete the
same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as outlined
herein, shall be followed.
   5.   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question, by legal proceedings or otherwise,
any determination of the Borough Council or the Borough Engineer.
   6.   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this Chapter or in accord with the approved final plan
the Borough Council is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate bond
or other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If proceeds of
such bond or other security are insufficient to pay the cost of installation or
making repairs or corrections to all improvements covered by said security, the
Borough Council may, at its option, install part of such improvements in all or
part of the subdivision or land development and may institute appropriate legal
or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary to complete the remainder
of the improvements. All of the proceeds, whether resulting from the security
or from any legal or equitable action brought against the developer, or both,
shall be used solely for the installation of the improvements covered by such
security and not for any other Borough purpose.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 530)
Part 6
Administration
§ 22-601.   Amendments.
   Amendments to this Chapter shall become effective only after a public
hearing held pursuant to public notice in the manner prescribed for enactment
of a subdivision and land development ordinance by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. In addition, in case of
an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning Commission, the Borough
Council shall submit each such amendment to the Planning Commission for
recommendations at least 30 days prior to the date fixed for the public hearing
on such proposed amendment.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 600)
§ 22-602.   Appeals.
   The decisions of the Borough Planning Commission with respect to the
approval or disapproval of subdivision land development plans may be appealed
directly to court in the same manner and within the same time limit at as is
provided for zoning appeals in Article X of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 610)
§ 22-603.   Enforcement Remedies.
   1.   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this Chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the Borough, pay a judgment of not more
than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the Borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed,
levied or payable until the date of the determination of a violation by the
district justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the Borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the, applicable
rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate violation, unless the district justice determining that there has
been a violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the
person, partnership or corporation violating this Chapter to have believed that
there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been
only 1 such violation until the fifth day following the date of the
determination of a violation by the district justice and thereafter each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   2.   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of
the violation and judgment.
   3.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the Borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   4.   District justices shall have initial jurisdiction in proceedings
brought under this section.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 620; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-604.   Preventive Remedies.
   1.   In addition to other remedies, the Borough may institute and maintain
appropriate actions by law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
violations, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages and to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. The description by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the
process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the seller or transferor
from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   2.   The Borough may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop any real property which has been
developed or which has resulted from a subdivision of real property in
violation of this Chapter. This authority to deny such a permit or approval
shall apply to any of the following applicants:
      A.   The owner of record at the time of such violation.
      B.   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation.
      C.   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent to
the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
      D.   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired the
property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether such
vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
   3.   As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting of
an approval to any such owner, current owner, vendee or lessee for the
development of any such real property, the Borough may require compliance with
the conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978; as added by A.O.)
§ 22-605.   Validity and Conflicts.
   1.   Should any action or provisions of this Chapter be declared by the
courts to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
Chapter as a whole, nor the validity of any other section or provision of the
Chapter than the 1 so declared.
   2.   Whenever there is a conflict between minimum standards or requirements
set forth in this Chapter and those contained in other Borough ordinances and
regulations; or other applicable laws and regulations, the most stringent
standard or requirement shall apply.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 630)
§ 22-606.   Fees.
   1.   The Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, a collection
procedure and schedule of fees to be paid by the developer at the time of
filing of the preliminary and final plans.
   2.   Charges for field inspection shall be established on the basis of the
number of lots to be inspected in the case of a subdivision or the total
acreage of the tract in the case of a land development.
   3.   No final plan shall be approved unless all fees and charges are paid in
full. (Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 640)
Part 7
Definitions
§ 22-701.   General.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the
purpose of these regulations, have the meaning indicated:
   A.   Words in the singular include the plural and those in the plural
include the singular.
   B.   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   C.   The words “person,” “developer,” “subdivider” and “owner” include a
corporation, unincorporated association, a partnership or other legal entity as
well as an individual.
   D.   The word “building” includes structure and shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof.”
   E.   The words “should” and “may” are permissive; the words “shall” and
“will” are mandatory and directive.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 700)
§ 22-702.   Specific Definitions.
   Other terms or words used herein shall be interpreted or defined as follows:
   Applicant–a landowner or developer, as hereinafter defined, who has filed an
application for development including his or her heirs, successors and assigns.
   Block–property bounded on 1 side by a street and the other 3 sides by a
street, railroad right-of-way, waterway, unsubdivided area or other definite
barrier.
   Building, accessory–a detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental and subordinate to that of the principal building and
which is located on the same lot as that occupied by the principal building.
   Building, principal–a structure enclosed within exterior walls or fire
walls; built, erected and framed of component structural parts; designed for
the housing, shelter, enclosure and support of individuals, animals or property
of any kind; main structure on a given lot.
   Building setback line–the line within a property defining the minimum
required front yard distance between any building to be erected, and an
adjacent right-of-way.
   Clear sight triangle–an area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of the street centerlines.
   Common open space–a parcel or parcels of land, an area of water or a
combination of land and water within a development site designed and intended
for the use of street parking area, private yard space and areas set aside for
nonresidential and public facilities. “Common open space” shall be
substantially free of structures, but may contain such improvements as are
appropriate for recreational use by the residents.
   Comprehensive Plan–the maps, charts and textual material adopted by the
Council of Troy Borough in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., and designated, as a whole and in its
several parts, as a comprehensive plan for the continuing development of Troy
Borough.
   County Planning Commission–
   Cut–an excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground and
a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the material
removed in excavation.
   Designated municipal official–the Borough official charged by the Borough
Council with the responsibility of administering the subdivision application
submission procedure.
   Developer–any landowner, agent of such landowner or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision of
land or a land development.
   Double or reverse frontage lot–a lot extending between and having frontage
on 2 generally parallel streets with vehicular access from only 1 street.
   Dwelling unit–any structure, or part thereof, designated to be occupied as
living quarters as a single housekeeping unit.
   Easement–a right-of-way granted, but not dedicated, for limited use of
private land for a public or quasi-public purpose, and within which the owner
of the property shall not erect any permanent structures, but shall have the
right to make any other use of the land which is not inconsistent with the
right the grantee.
   Engineer–a professional engineer licensed as such in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   Erosion–the removal of surface materials by the action of natural elements.
   Flood, 100-year–the flood having a 1 percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   Flood fringe–floodprone areas which are not designated as a regulatory
floodway on the flood boundary and floodway map in the Borough’s Flood
Insurance Study prepared by the Flood Insurance Administration.
   Floodplain–the area along a natural watercourse which is periodically
inundated by water therefrom.
   Floodway, regulatory–the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year flood. The
“regulatory floodway” is designated on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map of
the Borough’s Flood Insurance Study prepared by the Flood Insurance
Administration.
   Improvements–those physical additions and changes to the land that may be
necessary to produce usable and desirable lots.
   Land development–any of the following activities:
      (1)   The improvement of 1 lot or 2 or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of 2 or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure;  or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among 2 or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land.
      (3)   “Land development” does not include development which involves:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semidetached dwelling into not more than 3 residential units,
unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of an accessory building, including farm building,
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         (c)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this subsection, an amusement park is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
[A.O.]
   Landowner–the legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to and condition), a lessee having a remaining term of not
less than 40 years or other person having a proprietary interest in land, shall
be deemed to be a “landowner” for the purpose of this Chapter.
   Lot–a parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership, use, development or
improvement and/or dedication.
   Lot area–the area contained within the property lines of a lot (as shown on
the plan), excluding space within all streets and within all permanent drainage
easements, but including the areas of all other easements.
   Maintenance guarantee–any security which may be accepted by Borough Council
to ensure that improvements will be kept in good condition for a period of 1
year after completion of construction and installation, including corporate
bonds, escrow agreements and other similar collateral or surety agreements.
   Marker–a metal pipe or pin of at least 1 inch outside diameter and at least
30 inches in length.
   Mobile home park–a parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of 2 or more mobile homes, occupied for
dwelling and for nontransient use.
   Monument–a stone or concrete monument with a flat top at least 4 inches in
diameter or square. It is recommended that the bottom sides or radius be at
least 2 inches greater than the top to minimize movements caused by frost. The
monument should contain a copper or brass dowel and be at least 30 inches in
length.
   Municipality–the Borough of Troy.
   Official map–the Borough map adopted by ordinance showing exact locations of
existing and proposed lines for public streets, watercourses and public
grounds, including widenings, narrowings, extensions, diminutions, opening or
closing of same for the entire Borough.
   Official plan, sewage facilities–a comprehensive plan for the provision of
adequate sewage systems adopted by the Borough or municipalities possessing
authority or jurisdiction over the provision of such systems and submitted to
and approved by the State Department of Environmental Protection, as provided
by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, and 25 Pa.Code Chapter 71, Rules and
Regulations, promulgated thereunder. [A.O.]
   Pavement width (roadway)–the portion of a street right-of-way, generally
paved, intended for vehicular use.
   Performance guarantee–any security which may be accepted by the Borough
Council to guarantee that the proper construction of improvements be made by
the developer as a condition for the approval of the plan, including corporate
bonds, escrow agreements and other similar collateral or surety agreements.
   Plan, feasibility review–an initial submission, by the developer, of maps
and other materials analyzing the natural features of the site as they relate
to its development potential. The proposed concept for development of the tract
is included in the submission.
   Plan, final–a complete and exact plan, with professional engineer’s seal
affixed and prepared for official recording as required by this Chapter, to
define property rights, streets and other proposed improvements.
   Plan, preliminary–a tentative plan, in lesser detail than the final plan,
showing proposed street and lot layout and such other information as required
by this Chapter.
   Planned residential development–an area of land, controlled by a landowner,
to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, the
development plan for which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
dwelling, density, lot coverage and required open space to the regulations
established in any 1 residential district created from time to time under the
Zoning Ordinance of Troy Borough [Chapter 27]. [A.O.]
   Resubdivision–any replatting or resubdivision of land, limited to changes in
lot lines on approved final plans or recorded plans as specified in this
Chapter. Other replattings shall be considered as constituting a new
subdivision of land. See also “subdivision.”
   Right-of-way–the total width of any land reserved or dedicated as a street,
sidewalk or for other public or quasi-public purposes.
   Runoff–the surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given watershed
after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs off the
surface of the land.
   Sanitary sewage disposal, public–a sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant, generally serving a major portion of a
municipality or municipalities, and operated by a governmental agency
governmental authority or public utility company.
   Sanitary sewage disposal, centralized–a sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant, commonly called a “package treatment plant,”
generally serving a single land development subdivision or neighborhood and
operated by a governmental agency, governmental authority, public utility
company or developer.
   Sanitary sewage disposal, on-lot–any structure designed to treat sanitary
sewage within the boundaries of an individual lot.
   Sedimentation–the process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by moving wind, water or gravity. Once this matter is deposited
(or remains suspended in water), it is usually referred to as “sediment.”
   Sight distance–the required length or roadway visible to the driver of a
motor vehicle at any given point on the roadway when the view is unobstructed
by traffic. Sight distance measurements shall be made from a point 4.5 feet
above the centerline of the road surface to a point 0.5 feet above the
centerline of the road surface.
   Slope–the face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. “Slopes” are usually expressed in
a percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   Storm drainage systems–all facilities and features such as pipes, culverts,
open channels, ditches, swales, stormwater detention facilities and the like
used to transmit or temporarily store surface water runoff.
   Stormwater detention facilities–basins, ponds, ponding areas, depression or
other structures or features used to temporarily store rainfall and release it
at a controlled rate.
   Street–a strip of land, including the entire right-of-way (i.e., not limited
to the cartway), intended for use as a means of vehicular and pedestrian
circulation to provide access to more than 1 lot. The word “street” includes
street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway, alley, viaduct and
any other ways used or intended to be used by vehicular traffic or pedestrians,
whether public or private. Streets are further classified according to the
functions they perform:
      Arterial street–a street serving a large volume of comparatively high-
speed and long distance traffic, including all facilities classified as main
and secondary highways by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
      Collector street–a street which, in addition to providing access to
abutting properties, intercepts local streets to provide a route giving access
to community facilities and other collector and arterial streets (streets in
industrial and commercial subdivisions shall generally be considered collector
streets).
      Cul-de-sac street–a local street intersecting another street at 1 end and
terminating in a vehicular turn-around.
      Half (partial) street–a street generally parallel and adjacent to a
property line, having a lesser right-of-way width than normally required for
improvement and use of the street.
      Local street–a street used primarily to provide access to abutting
properties.
      Marginal access street–a local street, parallel and adjacent to a major
street (but separated from it by a reserve strip), which provides access to
abutting properties and control of intersections with the major street.
      Service street (alley)–a minor right-of-way providing secondary vehicular
access to the side or rear of 2 or more properties.
   Structure–any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   Subdivision–the division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into 2 or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than 10 acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   Surveyor–a licensed surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Swale–a low lying stretch of natural or human-made land which gathers or
carries surface water runoff.
   Testing on-lot sanitary sewer systems–soil tests and percolation tests
conducted by the Borough Sewage Enforcement Officer in compliance with 25
Pa.Code, Chapter 73, of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
regulations and in order to determine whether a permit may be issued for
installation of on-lot sewage disposal system. [A.O.]
   Topsoil–surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris.
Topsoil is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the “A Horizon.”
   Water supply and distribution system, centralized–a system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to 2 or more dwellings and other
buildings, generally serving a single land development, subdivision or
neighborhood and operated by a governmental agency, governmental authority,
public utility company or a developer.
   Water supply and distribution system, on-lot–a system for supplying and
distributing water to a single dwelling or other building from a source located
on the same lot.
   Water supply and distribution system, public–a system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to dwellings and other buildings,
generally serving a major portion of a municipality or municipalities and
operated by a governmental agency, governmental authority or public utility
company.
   Watercourse–a permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook, creek,
channel, swale or ditch for water, whether natural or human-made.
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, § 710; as amended by A.O.)
Appendix 22-A   Design and Connection Standards for Centralized Water Systems
   1.   General Requirements.
      A.   Centralized water systems shall be developed and maintained so as to
meet the standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
under 25 Pa.Code Chapter 109, “Waterworks,” of its rules and regulations and
the “Public Water Supply Manual,” Bureau of Water Quality Management
Publication No. 15, 2nd edition. All centralized water systems shall be
organized in such a manner as to fall within the jurisdiction of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. [A.O.]
      B.   Where a centralized water system is contemplated in a new
subdivision or land development, a feasible water supply and distribution
system shall be proposed before preliminary approval of the subdivision or land
development. Detailed plans and specifications for the water system shall be
submitted to and approved by the Borough Engineer before final approval. A
permit for the system must be granted by Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection before final approval. [A.O.]
   2.   Water Supply.
      A.   Quantity.
         (1)   The water supply shall be drawn from an adequate and reliable
source which can supply, in combination with storage facilities, the water
demands of the proposed service area at all times. The water source, in
combination with storage facilities, shall be capable of meeting fire flow
demands according to § 2.C of this Appendix as well as average daily
consumption, except that in systems not required to provide fire flow, the
source, in combination with storage facilities, shall be capable of meeting the
peak hour demand.
         (2)   The water source shall be capable of supplying 110 gallons per
day per person (GPCD) and 400 GPD per dwelling unit for the design population
of the development or the service area. Testing procedures to determine the
reliable capacity of the water source are set forth in Part 4 of this Chapter.
         (3)   Water service to commercial or industrial developments shall
demonstrate adequacy to meet projected demand from the specific project.
      B.   Quality. Source shall conform to the quality requirements of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, as set forth in their
“Public Water Supply Manual,” Bureau of Water Quality Management Publication
No. 15, § 2.2. Treatment of the water supply shall be done in accordance with
requirements set forth in the “Public Water Supply Manual,” Parts 4 through 12.
[A.O.]
      C.   Reliability Criteria. All utilities shall have a standby pump or
pumps adequate to insure that the system can operate normally with the largest
pump out of service. In addition, the following storage and equipment
requirements shall be met by centralized water supply systems according to the
size of the system.
         (1)   Small utilities servicing less than 50 customers shall have
sufficient storage facilities to supply demand for a 24-hour time period with
the source cut off.
         (2)   Utilities serving greater than 50 but less than 100 customers
shall maintain a minimum distribution storage capability of 100 percent the
maximum 24-hour demand.
         (3)   Utilities serving greater than 100 but less than 200 customers
shall maintain a minimum distribution storage capacity of 100 percent of the
maximum 24-hour demand and an auxiliary power generation source.
         (4)   Utilities servicing greater than 200 customers shall provide
elevated storage facilities of sufficient capacity to meet National Insurance
Services Office recommendations for fire protection, shall provide fire
hydrants and shall meet design standards of the American Water Works
Association.
          The NISO minimum requirements for low or medium value residential and
commercial areas are indicated in the table below:
 
Zone        Rated Capacity GPM Time Duration (Hours) Residual Pressure at Rated
                                                     Capacity
Residential 500                2                  20 PSI
Commercial  1,000              2                  20 PSI
 
   3.   Distribution Systems.
      A.   Acceptable Pipe Materials. Pipe selected for distribution systems
shall have been manufactured in conformance with the latest standard
specifications issued by the American Water Works Association. The following
are generally acceptable materials for water main use:
         (1)   Cast iron pipe (cement lined).
         (2)   Ductile iron pipe (cement lined).
         (3)   Steel pipe (for large size mains).
         (4)   Reinforced concrete pipe (for large size mains).
      B.   Main Sizes. Water distribution mains shall be a minimum of 6 inches
inside diameter laid out in a well-gridded system. Whenever fire protection
capability is provided, main sizes shall be adequate so the system can meet the
water quantity and pressure standards in §§ 2.A and .2.C of this Appendix.
Supply mains not adequate for firefighting shall not be connected to fire
hydrants and can only be considered for use as special water service lines.
      C.   Water Pressure. A minimum static pressure during peak hourly flow of
50 pounds per square inch is desirable, but the minimum static pressure during
peak hourly flow shall not be less than 30 pounds per square inch. A minimum of
20 pounds per square inch should exist at any point in the system during
periods of fire flow.
      D.   Customer Connections.
         (1)   All service connections from the main to a single dwelling unit
shall be a minimum of 1 inch ID. The diameter of service connections to
multiple units shall meet the approval of the Borough Engineer.
         (2)   Customer service connections shall be 1 of the approved
materials for mains. Heavy wall copper may be used for service connections
where soils are not permeated or subject to acidic ground drainage waters.
         (3)   A curb stop shall be furnished for each customer service
connection.
         (4)   Cross Connections. A cross connection is any physical
connection, direct or indirect, which provides a potential opportunity for
nonpotable water to enter a conduit, pipe or receptacle containing potable
water. Such cross connections are prohibited.
      E.   Leakage Test.
         (1)   No installation shall be approved until the leakage is less than
the number of gallons per hour as determined by the formula:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71172275881e9f30686af12c63142af25e805c90/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1438.jpg]
 
 
where:      L = allowable leakage in gallons per hour.
      N = number of joints in the length of the pipe tested.
      D = nominal diameter of the pipe in inches.
      P = the average test pressure during test.
 
         (2)   Leakage tests are conducted by measuring the amount of water
which enters the test section under normal working pressures for a period of at
least 2 hours.
   4.   Water Storage and Pumping Stations.
      A.   Storage for finished water should be provide as an integral part of
each water supply system. Standards set forth in Part 14 of the “Public Water
Supply Manual; Tanks, Standpipes and Pressure Tanks,” shall be used in
designing storage systems. Equipment selected shall have been manufactured in
conformance with the latest standards and specifications issued by the American
Water Works Association.
      B.   Pumping stations within centralized water systems shall comply with
the standards and specifications set forth in Part 13 of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection “Public Water Supply Manual.”
   5.   Water Well Construction and Location.
      A.   Well construction shall take place according to the standards set
forth in Part 3 of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
“Public Water Supply Manual.” [A.O.]
      B.   The centralized water system well source shall be centrally located
within an open space water protection zone a minimum of 1 acre in size. No
structure other than water system pumping stations, standpipes and the like
shall be located within the protected zone. No on-lot sewage disposal system
shall be constructed within 200 feet of the water source well.
   6.   Well Capacity Testing Procedures.
      A.   A dynamic recovery rate and draw-down test shall be conducted to
determine the capacity and safe daily yield of the well source. Test procedures
shall be conducted as follows:
         (1)   Water pump, capable of variable output, having sufficient
capacity to exceed the dynamic recovery rate of the water source shall be
employed or said test. It is recommended that the capacity of the source pump
be such that draw-down to within 20 feet of the source pump be achieved in a
maximum of 3 hours.
         (2)   A suitable calibrated water meter capable of measuring the water
output shall be connected to the water source pump outlet.
         (3)   The exact location of the water source pump with respect to the
bottom of the well shall be recorded and maintained constant for the duration
of the test.
         (4)   The water source pump shall be operated at maximum capacity and
output for the first 6 hours of the test or until the water level in the source
well reaches a point 20 feet above the water source pump. The elapsed time and
rate of pumping shall be recorded at 60-minute intervals on the log data sheet
form supplied.
         (5)   Draw-down of the source well in feet shall be recorded at 60-
minute intervals as well as the water draw-down of any required peripheral test
hole wells 8  on the log data form.
         (6)   Reduce the maximum rate of pumping by 10 gallons per minute
(GPM) and continue pumping for the next 2 hours of test or until the water
level reaches a point 20 feet above the water source pump. The elapsed time,
rate of pumping and draw-down of the source well and, where required, the
peripheral test hole wells shall be recorded on the log data forms at 60-minute
intervals.
         (7)   Continue the above procedure using the 2-hour time periods or
the criteria of water level above the source pump until the conditions are such
that the dynamic recovery rate of the water source equals the pumping rate
(dynamic equilibrium). The Borough Engineer may increase the increment of GPM
reduction where on-site review of the data warrants such action. Note, as the
dynamic recovery rate is approached, the increment of GPM reduction will need
to be reduced from 10 GPM to 8 GPM to 5 GPM–to n GPM  0. At this point, no
detectable change in draw-down will occur. If any change in draw-down is
detected, either plus or minus, dynamic equilibrium has not been achieved.
         (8)   When said dynamic recovery rate is reached, record elapsed time,
pumping rate and draw-down on log data sheet and continue pumping at this rate
for the remainder of the 72-hour test time or a minimum of 24 hours, whichever
is the greater time. Elapsed time, pumping rate and draw-down of the source
well, and where required, the peripheral test wells, shall be recorded hourly.
         (9)   Measurements of static water level recovery shall be made on the
source well and peripheral test hole wells, where required. Measurements shall
be taken hourly and the data recorded for a minimum time period of 24 hours
upon cessation of the dynamic recovery rate test.
         (10)   Calculations of specific capacity and safe daily yield of the
source well shall be submitted to the Borough Engineer and the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection by the registered professional engineer
employed by the utility or developer for review and analysis. [A.O.]
   7.   Improvements Requirements.
      A.   Where a centralized water system is to be installed within a
proposed subdivision or land development, the improvement procedures and
requirements set forth within this Chapter shall be followed. Improvements,
agreements, guarantees, inspections and guarantee releases shall include
consideration of the centralized water company in carrying out the procedures
and requirements of this Chapter.
      B.   Final specifications for the design and installation of the
centralized water system shall be included as part of the improvements
agreement between the developer and the Borough Council. Final approval of the
subdivision or land development plan shall not take place until such
specifications are finalized within the improvements agreement and until the
necessary improvements and maintenance grantees are posted. Engineering review
of the specifications for the water system by an engineer shall take place
before signing of the improvements agreement and before approval of the final
development plan.
   Figure 22-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/71172275881e9f30686af12c63142af25e805c90/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1442.jpg]
 
(Ord. 78-4, 5/15/1978, Appendix A; as amended by A.O.)
 
Notes
  8 Peripheral test hole wells may be required in order to determine the area
  of influence of the source well and the capacity of the source well aquifer.
8 Peripheral test hole wells will generally be required in geological areas
  with slate and shale formations. The test hole wells shall be situated
  according to Figure 22-1 and have a minimum diameter of 6 inches.
Chapter 23
Swimming Pools
Part 1
Fencing
§ 23-101.   Fencing; Exemption
§ 23-102.   Repair
§ 23-103.   Penalty
Part 1
Fencing
§ 23-101.   Fencing; Exemption.
   All property owners installing pools after the adoption of this Part shall
also install a suitable fence around the perimeter of said pool with a height
of at least 5 feet, except that those pools which are at least 5 feet in height
above ground and have ladders that can fold inside or be taken away shall be
exempt from the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 78-2, 4/17/1978, § 1)
§ 23-102.   Repair.
   All property owners currently having pools with fences shall be liable to
keep said fences in good repair in order to comply with the provisions of this
Part.
(Ord. 78-2, 4/17/1978, § 2)
§ 23-103.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 78-2, 4/17/1978, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 24
Taxation, Special
Part 1
Earned Income Tax
§ 24-101.   Incorporation of Statute
§ 24-102.   Imposition of Tax
§ 24-103.   Declaration, Return and Payment of Tax
§ 24-104.   Collection at Source
§ 24-105.   Administration
§ 24-106.   Payment of Tax to Other Political Subdivisions or States as Credit
or Deduction; Withholding Tax
§ 24-107.   Applicability
§ 24-108.   Collection of Delinquent Earned Income Tax From Employers
Part 2
Occupation Tax
§ 24-201.   Occupation Tax Levied
§ 24-202.   Other Taxes
§ 24-203.   Collection
§ 24-204.   Collection From Spouse
§ 24-205.   Tax Enabling Act
Part 3
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 24-301.   Short Title
§ 24-302.   Authority
§ 24-303.   Definitions
§ 24-304.   Imposition of Tax; Interest
§ 24-305.   Exempt Parties
§ 24-306.   Excluded Transactions
§ 24-307.   Documents Relating to Associations or Corporations and Members,
Partners, Stockholders or Shareholders Thereof
§ 24-308.   Acquired Company
§ 24-309.   Credits Against Tax
§ 24-310.   Extension of Lease
§ 24-311.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale
§ 24-312.   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
§ 24-313.   Statement of Value
§ 24-314.   Civil Penalties
§ 24-315.   Lien
§ 24-316.   Enforcement
§ 24-317.   Regulations
Part 4
Per Capita Tax
§ 24-401.   Purpose
§ 24-402.   Per Capita Tax
§ 24-403.   Collection
Part 5
Discounts and Penalties
§ 24-501.   Rates of Discount; Penalty
Part 6
Tax Collector’s Compensation
§ 24-601.   Tax Collector Compensation
Part 1
Earned Income Tax
§ 24-101.   Incorporation of Statute.
   The provisions of § 13 of the Local Tax Enabling Act (Act 511 of 1965), 53
P.S. § 6913, its supplements and amendments, are incorporated herein by
reference, except that where options are provided in said § 13, this Part
designates the option selected, and except as and where hereinafter
specifically provided otherwise.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 1)
§ 24-102.   Imposition of Tax.
   A tax for general revenue purposes in the amount of 1/2 percent is hereby
imposed on earned income and net profits earned by residents of Troy Borough
during the taxable period beginning on the February 6, 1975, and continuing for
each taxable year thereafter.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 2)
§ 24-103.   Declaration, Return and Payment of Tax.
   1.   Net Profits. Every taxpayer making net profits in any year succeeding
1975 shall file a declaration of his or her estimated net profits for the
current year and shall pay the tax due thereon in quarterly installments and
shall file a final return and pay to the officer the balance of the tax due,
all as provided in § 13(III)(A)(1) of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   2.   Earned Income.
      A.   For years succeeding the year 1975, every taxpayer shall make and
file final returns and pay the taxes due, all as provided in § 13(III)(B),
first paragraph, of the Local Tax Enabling, its supplements and amendments.
      B.   Quarterly Returns. Every taxpayer who is employed for a salary, wage
or other compensation and who received any earned income not subject to the
provisions relating to collection at source shall make and file with the
officer quarterly returns and shall pay quarter-annually the amount of tax
shown as due on such returns, all as provided in § 13(III)(B)(2) of the Local
Tax Enabling Act, its supplements and amendments,
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 3; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980, § 3-2113)
§ 24-104.   Collection at Source.
   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse or
other place of business within the geographical limits of Troy Borough shall
deduct the tax imposed by this Part on the earned income due to his or her
employee or employees, and shall file quarterly returns and final returns and
pay quarterly to the officer the amount of taxes deducted, all as set forth in
§ 13, IV of said Local Tax Enabling Act, its supplements and amendments.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 4)
§ 24-105.   Administration.
   1.   The income tax officer shall be selected from time to time by
resolution of, and shall receive such compensation for his or her services and
expenses, as determined from time to time by Council. Such officer shall have
the powers and duties and be subject to the penalties provided in the Local Tax
Enabling Act, its supplements and amendments.
   2.   The Secretary of Troy Borough Council shall be the custodian of the
bond required to be given by the income tax officer.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 5)
§ 24-106.   Payment of Tax to Other Political Subdivisions or States as Credit
or Deduction; Withholding Tax.
   1.   Payment of any tax on salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation
or net profits of businesses, professions or other activities to a political
subdivision by residents thereof pursuant to a resolution or ordinance passed
or adopted under the authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act shall be credited
to and allowed as a deduction from the liability of such persons for any other
like tax respectively on salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation or on
net profits of businesses, professions or other activities imposed by this
Part. [Ord. 80-2]
   2.   Payment of tax on income of any political subdivision by residents
thereof pursuant to a resolution or ordinance passed or adopted under the
authority of Local Tax Enabling Act shall, to the extent that such income
includes salaries, wages, commission, other compensation or net profits of
businesses, professions or other activities, but in such proportion as
hereinafter set forth, be credited to and allowed as a deduction from the
liability of such persons for any other tax on salaries, wages, commissions,
other compensation or on net profits of businesses, professions or other
activities imposed under this Part. [Ord. 80-2]
   3.   Payment of any tax on income to any state or to any political
subdivision thereof by residents thereof, pursuant to any state or local law
shall, to the extent that such income includes salaries, wages, commission or
other compensation or net profits of businesses, professions or other
activities, but in such proportions as hereinafter set forth, be credited to
and allowed as a deduction from the liability of such person for any other tax
on salaries, wages, commissions, other compensation or net profits of
businesses, professions or other activities imposed under this Part, if
residents of Troy Borough receive credits and deductions of a similar kind, to
a like degree, from the tax on income imposed by the other state or political
subdivisions thereof.
   4.   Payment of any tax on income to any other state than Pennsylvania or to
any political subdivision located outside the boundaries of this Commonwealth
by residents of Troy Borough shall, to the extent that such income includes
salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation or net profits of
businesses, professions or other activities, but in such proportions as
hereinafter set forth, be credited to and allowed as a deduction from the
liability of such person for any other tax on salaries, wages, commissions,
other compensation or net profits of businesses, professions or other
activities imposed by this Part.
   5.   When a credit or a deduction is allowable in any of the several cases
hereinafter provided, it shall be allowed in proportion to the concurrent
periods for which taxes are imposed by the other state or respective political
subdivision, but not in excess of the amount previously paid for a concurrent
period.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 6; as amended by Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980)
§ 24-107.   Applicability.
   The tax imposed in §
24-102 of this Part shall not be levied on the net profits of any person,
institution or organization as to whom it is beyond the power of Council to
impose said tax under the Constitution of the United States of America or the
Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 8)
§ 24-108.   Collection of Delinquent Earned Income Tax From Employers.
   The officer shall demand, receive and collect from all corporations,
political subdivisions, associations, companies, firms or individuals employing
persons owing delinquent earned income taxes, or whose spouse owes delinquent
earned income taxes, or having in possession unpaid commissions or earnings
belonging to any person or persons owing delinquent earned income taxes, or
whose spouse owes delinquent earned income taxes, upon presentation of a
written notice and demand under oath or affirmation, containing the name of the
taxable person or the spouse thereof and the amount of the tax due. Upon the
presentation of written notice and demand, it shall be the duty of any such
corporation, political subdivision, association, company, firm or individual to
deduct from the wages, commissions or earnings of such individual employees
then owing or that shall within 60 days thereafter become due, or from any
unpaid commissions or earnings of any such taxable in its or his or her
possession, a sum sufficient to pay the respective amount of the delinquent
earned income taxes and costs, shown upon the written notice or demand, and to
pay the same to the officer of Troy Borough within 60 days after such notice
shall have been given. Such corporation, political subdivision, association,
firm or individual shall be entitled to deduct from the moneys collected from
each employee the costs incurred from the extra bookkeeping necessary to record
such transaction, not exceeding 2 percent of the amount of money so collected
and paid over to the officer. Upon the failure of any such corporation,
political subdivision, association, company, firm or individual to deduct the
amount of such taxes or to pay the same over to the officer, less the cost of
bookkeeping involved in such transaction as herein provided, within the time
hereby required, such corporation, political subdivision, association, company,
firm or individual shall forfeit and pay the amount of such tax for each such
taxable person whose taxes are not withheld and paid over, or that are withheld
and not paid over together with a penalty of 10 percent added thereto, to be
recovered by an action in assumpsit in a suit to be instituted by the officer
or by the proper authorities of Troy Borough as debts of like amount are now by
law recoverable, except that such person shall not have the benefit of any stay
of execution or exemption of law.
(Res. 1/6/1975, § 10; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Occupation Tax
§ 24-201.   Occupation Tax Levied.
   An occupation tax of 300 mills on the value of all occupations, as assessed
on the assessment rolls for Bradford county tax purposes, is hereby levied for
general purposes for the year commencing January 1, 1976, upon all persons
residing in the Borough of Troy, Bradford County Pennsylvania, 18 years of age
or over and made taxable by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for
county rates and levies.
(Ord. 12-1970, 12/28/1978, § 1; as amended by Ord. 12/10/1975A; and by Ord. 81-
4, 12/21/1981, § 3-2011)
§ 24-202.   Other Taxes.
   This occupation tax shall be in addition to all other taxes levied by the
Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 12-1970, 12/28/1978, § 2)
§ 24-203.   Collection.
   The Borough Secretary shall compute and add the amount of the tax levied
hereunder to the tax duplicate furnished to the tax collector. The tax levied
and assessed hereunder shall be collected by the tax collector in the same
manner as other taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same discount
for prompt payment and to the same penalties for nonpayment as provided by law
for other taxes.
(Ord. 12-1970, 12/28/1978, § 3)
§ 24-204.   Collection from Spouse.
   Every spouse against whose spouse said occupation tax is levied shall be
liable for the payment of said tax. Collection thereof from said spouse may be
made and enforced in the manner provided by law for the collection and
enforcement of other taxes owing by such spouse, including the collection
thereof from the spouse’s employer.
(Ord. 12-1970, 12/28/1978, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 24-205.   Local Tax Enabling Act.
   This Part has been adopted by virtue of the Local Tax Enabling Act, No. 511,
and the amendments thereto.
(Ord. 12-1970, 12/28/1978, § 5)
Part 3
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 24-301.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known as the “Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance” of the
Borough of Troy.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-302.   Authority.
   A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within the
Borough, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer took
place, as authorized by Article XI-D, “Local Real Estate Transfer Tax,” 72 P.S.
§§ 8101 et seq.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-303.   Definitions.
   Association– a partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorpo rated enterprise owned or conducted by 2 or more persons other than a
private trust or decedent’s estate.
   Borough–the Borough of Troy, Bradford County, Pennsylvania.
   Corporation–a corporation, joint-stock association, business trust or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States or any other state, territory, foreign country or dependency.
   Document–any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers, devises,
vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or devise of title of real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other instruments of
like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release thereof to the
debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years, or instruments which solely grant, vest or confirm a public
utility easement. “Document” shall also include a declaration of acquisition
required to be presented for recording under §
24-302.
   Family farm corporation–a corporation of which at least 75 percent of its
assets are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75 percent of
each class of stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the
same family. The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      A.   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing.
      B.   The raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets, or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities.
      C.   Fur farming.
      D.   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations.
      E.   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   Members of the same family– any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   Person–every natural person, association or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term
“person” as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   Real estate–
      A.   All lands, tenements or hereditaments within this Borough, including
without limitation buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals, oil, gas,
quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees and other
improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage or law pass with a
conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery and equipment
in an industrial plant.
      B.   A condominium unit.
      C.   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   Real estate company–a corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate, 90 percent or more
of the ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      A.   Derives 60 percent or more of its annual gross receipts from the
ownership or disposition of real estate.
      B.   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90 percent or more
of the value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets
which are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   Title to real estate–
      A.   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold.
      B.   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years but
which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right to
extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consist of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   Transaction–the making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   Value–
      A.   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length for
actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor, paid or
to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing before the
transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying indebtedness is
assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where such liens or
other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged against real
estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth a nominal
consideration, the “value” thereof shall be determined from the price set forth
in or actual consider ation for the contract of sale.
      B.   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon the
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties or the real estate of an acquired company,
the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting the
assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for the
common level ratio factor developed by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue
for Pennsylvania realty transfer tax base calculations.
      C.   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate, the
value of which is not determinable under paragraph .A or .B above, the actual
monetary worth of such interest.
      D.   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principal of the grantor of a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-304.   Imposition of Tax; Interest.
   1.   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1
percent of the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax
shall be payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for
recording or within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of
becoming an acquired company.
   2.   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the recorder of deeds whereon the
date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax and the signature of the
collecting agent shall be set forth.
   3.   It is the intent of this Part that the entire burden of the tax imposed
herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in
the Local Tax Enabling Act, Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall impose or
hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer then the tax
levied by the Borough Council under the authority of that Act shall during the
time such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, be 1/2 of the rate and such 1/2 shall become effective without any
action on the part of the Borough Council; provided, however, that the Borough
and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same person or
transfer may agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates to 1/2 of
the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively different rates, the
total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted under the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
   4.   The tax imposed under subsection .1 above and all applicable interest
and penalties shall be administered, collected and enforced under the Act of
December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, No. 511, as amended, known as the “Local Tax
Enabling Act”; provided, that if the correct amount of the tax is not paid by
the last date prescribed for timely payment, Township, pursuant to § 1102-D of
the Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. § 8102-D, authorizes and directs the
Department of Revenue of the Common wealth of Pennsylvania to determine,
collect and enforce the tax, interest and penalties.
   5.   Any tax imposed under subsection .1 above that is not paid by the date
tax is due shall bear interest as prescribed for interest on delinquent
municipal claims under the Act of May 16, 1923, P.L. 207, No. 153, 53 P.S. §§
7101 et seq., as amended, known as the “Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act.”
The interest rate shall be the lesser of the interest rate imposed upon
delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of the Act of April 9, 1929,
P.L. 343, No. 176, 72 P.S. § 806, as amended, known as the “Fiscal Code,” or
the maximum interest rate permitted under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens
Act for tax claims.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-305.   Exempt Parties.
   The United States, the Commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax
imposed by this Part. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall not,
however, relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the tax.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-306.   Excluded Transactions.
   The tax imposed by §
24-304 shall not be imposed upon:
   A.   A transfer to the Commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemna tion or deed or confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments provided said reconveyance is made within 1
year from the date of condemnation.
   B.   A document which the Borough is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States.
   C.   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district or
county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale.
   D.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest.
   E.   A transfer or division in kind for no or nominal actual consideration
of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by cotenants;
however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than their
undivided interest, tax is due on the excess.
   F.   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or spouse of a brother or sister, and between a grandparent and grandchild or
the spouse of such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee
within 1 year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such
transfer.
   G.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property passing
by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a decedent
to the decedent’s devisee or heir.
   H.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of an
ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if the
transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the recorder of deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries.
   I.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to a
beneficiary of an ordinary trust.
   J.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee.
   K.   A transfer: (1) for no or nominal actual consideration between
principal and agent or straw party; or (2) from or to an agent or straw party
where, if the agent or straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be
imposed under this Part. Where the document by which title is acquired by a
grantee or statement of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired
by the grantee from, or for the benefit of, his or her principal, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the property is the property of the grantee in his
or her individual capacity if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation
under this clause.
   L.   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation of a
corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where the
Department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this Part.
   M.   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held of
record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than 2 years.
   N.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or authority as
security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit industrial
develop ment agency or authority.
   O.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if: (1) the grantee shall
directly use such real estate for the primary purpose of manufacturing,
fabricating, compound ing, processing, publishing, research and development,
transportation, energy conversion, energy production, pollution control,
warehousing or agriculture; and (2) the agency or authority has the full
ownership interest in the real estate transferred.
   P.   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person.
   Q.   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or persons
holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not being or
has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
   R.   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, (68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities.
   S.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to a
family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least 75 percent of each class of the stock thereof.
   T.   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership interest
in a real estate company or family farm corporation.
   U.   A transaction wherein the tax is $1 or less.
   V.   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas or
minerals and assignments thereof.
   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true, full
and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of value. A
copy of the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax statement of value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas or minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-307.   Documents Relating to Associations or Corporations and Members,
Partners, Stockholders or Shareholders Thereof.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
24-306, documents which make, confirm or evidence any transfer or devise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this section, corporations and associations are entities separate
from their members, partners, stockholders and shareholders.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-308.   Acquired Company.
   1.   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transfer ring, directly or indirectly, 90 percent or
more of the total ownership interest in the company within a period of 3 years.
   2.   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this Part.
   3.   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax
declaration of acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-309.   Credits Against Tax.
   1.   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   2.   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as a consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   3.   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   4.   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was previously
sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount of the tax
paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax due upon
the deed.
   5.   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given under
this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is greater
than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be allowed.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-310.   Extension of Lease.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-311.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax, and the Sheriff, or
other officer, conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed out of
the first moneys paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of
the sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser
shall be liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-312.   Duties of Recorder of Deeds.
   1.   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983,
(P.L. 40, No. 21), the Recorder of Deeds shall be the collection agent for the
local realty transfer tax, including any amount payable to Borough based on a
redetermination of the amount of tax due by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of
the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax, without compensation from the Borough.
   2.   In order to ascertain the amount of the taxes due when the property is
located in more than 1 political subdivision, the Recorder shall not accept for
recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value showing
what taxes are due each municipality.
   3.   On or before the tenth of each month, the Recorder shall pay over to
the Borough all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2 percent for use
of the county, together with a report containing the information as is required
by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in reporting collections of the
Pennsylvania realty transfer tax. The 2 percent commission shall be paid to the
county.
   4.   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Recorder shall rerecord the deed or record
the additional realty transfer tax form only when both the state and local
amounts and a re-recording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-313.   Statement of Value.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true, full
and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part. A copy
of the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax statement of value may be submitted for
this purpose. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any excludable
real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on family
relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement of value executed
by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such connection
and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the reason, if
any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-314.   Civil Penalties.
   1.   If any part of any underpayment of taxes imposed by this Part is due to
fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50 percent of the
underpayment.
   2.   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this Part
on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure is due to
reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5 percent of the amount of
such tax if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 5
percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such failure
continues, not exceeding 50 percent in the aggregate.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-315.   Lien.
   The tax imposed by this Part shall become a lien upon the lands, tenements
or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated, wholly or in
part within the boundaries of the Borough, which lands, tenements,
hereditaments or interest therein are described in or conveyed by or
transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed and
levied by this Part, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under this
Part is due and payable, and continue until discharged by payment, or in
accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal or
tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of Bradford County, in accordance with
the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. §§ 7101
et seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-316.   Enforcement.
   All taxes imposed by this Part, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
§ 24-317.   Regulations.
   The Recorder of Deeds of Bradford County is charged with enforcement and
collection of tax and is empowered to promulgate and enforce reasonable
regulations for enforcement and collection of the tax. The regulations which
have been promulgated by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue under 72 P.S.
§§ 8101-C et seq. are incorporated into and made a part of this Part.
(Ord. 77-7, 5/12/1977; as revised by A.O.)
Part 4
Per Capita Tax
§ 24-401.   Purpose.
   This Part is enacted for the purpose of restatement of per capita taxes in a
single ordinance and does not impose a new, increased or additional amount of
tax.
(Ord. 79-22, 11/19/1979, § 1)
§ 24-402.   Per Capita Tax.
   An annual per capita tax of $10 per person on each and every resident and
inhabitant over 18 years of age in the Borough of Troy is hereby imposed under
authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act, Act 511 of 1965, approved December 31,
1965, as amended, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.
(Ord. 79-22, 11/19/1979, § 2)
§ 24-403.   Collection.
   The Tax Collector of the Borough of Troy is authorized and directed to
collect this tax.
(Ord. 79-22, 11/19/1979, § 3)
Part 5
Discounts and Penalties
§ 24-501.   Rates of Discount; Penalty.
   1.   The rates of discounts and penalties on the following taxes assessed by
the Borough of Troy shall be as herein set forth:
   A.   Tax on assessed value of real estate under the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§
45101 et seq.
   B.   Per capita tax under the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§ 45101 et seq.
   C.   Per capita tax under Act 511, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.
   D.   Occupation tax under Act 511, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.
   2.   For payment of the whole amount of tax within 2 months after the date
of the tax notice, the discount shall be 2 percent of the whole amount of the
tax.
   3.   For failure to make payment of the whole amount of the tax within 4
months after the date of the tax notice, the penalty shall be 10 percent of the
tax.
(Ord. 77-2, 2/10/1977, § 1)
Part 6
Tax Collector’s Compensation
§ 24-601.   Tax Collector’s Compensation.
   The rate of compensation to be paid to the Borough Tax Collector for
collecting those Borough taxes for which he or she is designated collector,
that is the real estate tax assessments, the per capita tax and the occupation
tax, is fixed as follows:
   A.   For the collection of real estate tax assessments, $7.50 per assessment
collected effectively January 1, 1998, and $5 per assessment collected
effectively January 1, 2002.
   B.   For the collection of per capita tax and occupation tax, 5 percent of
all such taxes collected.
(Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980; as amended by Ord. 80-4, 11/18/1980; and by Ord. 97-1,
2/14/1997)
Chapter 25
Trees
Part 1
Felling of Trees and Shrubs
§ 25-101.   Permit Required for Felling of Certain Trees and Shrubs
§ 25-102.   Issuance of Permit
§ 25-103.   Liability Insurance
§ 25-104.   Penalty
Part 1
Felling of Trees and Shrubs
§ 25-101.   Permit Required for Felling of Certain Trees and Shrubs.
   Hereafter, no tree or large shrub may be felled in the Borough of Troy
having a trunk diameter of more than 6 inches breast-height without a permit
from the Borough Secretary if said tree or shrub can, by falling, touch or fall
upon any public street, utility line, private way not wholly owned by the owner
of said tree or shrub, aboveground water or sewer line tap, access or valve or
other facility not wholly owned by the owner of said tree or shrub.
(Ord. 1-1972, 7/31/1972)
§ 25-102.   Issuance of Permit.
   It shall be the duty of the Borough Secretary to issue said permit upon
conditions to be prescribed by the Borough Superintendent of Streets and it
shall be the duty of said Superintendent to be reasonably satisfied that the
felling of said tree or shrub will in no way harm any person or property if the
prescribed conditions are met. The Superintendent may, at his or her option,
direct the performance of the work.
(Ord. 1-1972, 7/31/1972)
§ 25-103.   Liability Insurance.
   No permit shall be issued to an agent or contractor until said agent or
contractor shall satisfy the Borough Secretary that he or she is insured
against liability in at least the minimum amount of $300,000 bodily injury and
property damage.
(Ord. 1-1972, 7/31/1972; as amended by Ord. 79-17, 10/15/1979)
§ 25-104.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues or each section of this Part which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-1972, 7/31/1972; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 26
Water
Part 1
Water Rates
§ 26-101.   Rates
Part 2
Water Connections
§ 26-201.   Connection Charge
Part 3
Private Wells
§ 26-301.   Private Wells Prohibited Within Borough; Exceptions
Part 4
Stand-by Water for Fire Protection
§ 26-401.   Annual Charge
§ 26-402.   Due Date
§ 26-403.   Penalty
Part 5
Water Needs
§ 26-501.   Assessment and Evaluation
§ 26-502.   Insufficient Water Sources
§ 26-503.   Penalty
Part 6
Duty of Property Owner
§ 26-601.   Duty of Property Owner
Part 1
Water Rates
§ 26-101.   Rates.
   1.   Water rates for the consumption of water and the privilege of
connection shall be as follows:
      A.   There will be a service charge of $4 per quarter annum added to the
water bill for each meter. [Ord. 79-15]
      B.   The first 10,000 gallons used per quarter will be charged at the
rate of $1.90 per 1,000 gallons of water used. [Ord. 79-15]
      C.   Over 10,000 gallons and up to 50,000 used per quarter an additional
charge of $1 per 1,000 gallons.
      D.   Over 50,000 gallons and up to 100,000 gallons used per quarter an
additional $0.60 per 1,000 gallons.
   2.   Dwelling units of 2 or more on 1 meter will receive only 1 bill
addressed to the landowner.
   3.   A service charge, in an amount as established from time to time by
resolution of Borough Council, will be made turn-on/turn-off of water service.
[A.O.]
   4.   Remote meters will be installed at all new connections and upon
periodic replacement of old meters.
   5.   A penalty of 10 percent will be added to the bill on the fifteenth day
after date of bill, payable whether or not bill is actually received by the
property owner although bills will be mailed in the usual manner.
(Ord. 5-1974, 7/10/1974; as amended by Ord. 79-15, 9/17/1979; and by A.O.)
Part 2
Water Connections
§ 26-201.   Connection Charge.
   Each person or party desiring to connect to a property to the Troy Borough
water system shall pay a connection charge. In the case of a single-family
residence of a single occupant commercial property, the connection charge shall
be $500. In the case of a multifamily dwelling or a multioccupant commercial
property , the connection fee shall be $500 plus $250 per apartment or
commercial occupant. In addition thereto, the person or party requesting
connection to the Borough water system shall pay to the Borough Manager, or his
or her designee, the cost of all materials used or consumed by the Borough or
which the Borough Manager or his or her designee reasonably anticipates will be
used or consumed by the Borough in association with the connection of the
property to the community sewer system.
(Ord. –/–/1994; as amended by Ord. 96-2, 5/20/1996, § 2)
Part 3
Private Wells
§ 26-301.   Private Wells Prohibited Within Borough; Exceptions.
   Effective June 21, 1982, no private wells shall be dug or drilled in the
Borough of Troy. The entire Borough is served by the public water system and
exceptions to this prohibition may be granted by the Borough Council only on
fully documented data which the appellant shall be required to provide.
(Ord. 82-2, 6/21/1982, § 11-2009)
Part 4
Stand-by Water for Fire Protection
§ 26-401.   Annual Charge.
   There is hereby imposed an annual charge of $200 for stand-by water for fire
protection wherever sprinkler or other special systems are utilized.
(Ord. 77-9, 5/12/1977, § 1)
§ 26-402.   Due Date.
   Said annual charge shall become due on June 1 for the calendar year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of that year.
(Ord. 77-9, 5/12/1977, § 2).
§ 26-403.   Penalty.
   A penalty of 1 percent per month shall be added if said bill is not paid
within 10 days after receipt of payment notice from the Borough.
(Ord. 77-9, 5/12/1977, § 3)
Part 5
Water Needs
§ 26-501.   Assessment and Evaluation.
   The Borough Manager shall, from time to time, and as often as necessary,
assess and evaluate the water needs and water sources of the Borough to
determine whether the Borough’s water sources are sufficient to meet the
Borough’s water needs, considering all projected ordinary, necessary and
emergency uses of the same.
(Ord. 91-6, 7/21/1991, § 1)
§ 26-502.   Insufficient Water Sources.
   If the Borough Manager shall at any time find that the Borough’s water
sources are or may be insufficient to meet the projected water needs of the
Borough or that it is or may be necessary to restrict uses of water supplies of
the Borough in order to assure that sufficient water supplies exist to meet the
Borough’s ordinary, necessary or emergency uses, the Borough Manager shall:
   A.   Report his or her findings to the Borough Council at any regular
meeting of the Council or at any special meeting of the Council called for that
purpose, and shall propose any emergency measures deemed by him or her to be
necessary to preserve as much of the Borough’s water supply as possible to
assure that the water needs of the Borough may be served as long as possible.
   B.   If such proposed emergency restrictions are approved by a majority vote
of Council, the Borough Manager shall publish such restrictions twice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Borough.
(Ord. 91-6, 7/21/1991, § 2)
§ 26-503.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any such restriction or
provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 91-6, 7/21/1991, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
Part 6
Duty of Property Owner
§ 26-601.   Duty of Property Owner.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the property owner to:
      A.   Locate and protect all faucets, pipes and other appliances used to
supply water to the property owner so that they will freeze in cold weather,
and not allow water to run to prevent the freezing of pipes and appliances.
      B.   Close all faucets, pipes and appliances used to supply water when
not in use and have them so packed so that the water will not be wasted.
   2.   The Borough shall have the authority to shut off the water supply from
any property where water is wasted on account of defective appliances, frozen
pipes or any other cause.
(Ord. 80-2, 7/21/1980)
Chapter 27
Zoning
Part 1
Definitions
§ 27-101.   Definitions
Part 2
Districts
§ 27-201.   Designated Districts.
§ 27-202.   District Boundaries
§ 27-203.   Boundary Lines
§ 27-204.   Extension of Restrictions
Part 3
R-a Residence Districts
§ 27-301.   Application of Regulations
§ 27-302.   Erection, Alternation and Use of Buildings
§ 27-303.   Building Area
§ 27-304.   Front Yard
§ 27-305.   Front Yard; Corner Lots
§ 27-306.   Side Yards; One-Family Detached Dwelling
§ 27-307.   Side Yards; Other Buildings
§ 27-308.   Rear Yards
§ 27-309.   Conformance to Building Regulations
§ 27-310.   Frontage
Part 4
R-b Residence Districts
§ 27-401.   Application of Regulations
§ 27-402.   Erection, Alteration and Use of Buildings
§ 27-403.   Building Area
§ 27-404.   Front Yard
§ 27-405.   Front Yard; Corner Lot
§ 27-406.   Side Yards; One-Family or Two-Family Dwellings
§ 27-407.   Side Yard; One-Family Semidetached Dwelling
§ 27-408.   Side Yards; Other Buildings
§ 27-409.   Rear Yards
§ 27-410.   Conformance to Building Regulations
§ 27-411.   Multifamily Residences; Off-Street Parking
Part 5
C Business Districts
§ 27-501.   Application of Regulations
§ 27-502.   Erection, Alteration and Use of Buildings
§ 27-503.   Prohibitions
§ 27-504.   Rear Yard
§ 27-505.   Conformance to Building Regulations
Part 6
I Manufacturing and Industrial District
§ 27-601.   Application of Regulations
§ 27-602.   Unlawful Purposes
§ 27-603.   Rear Yard
§ 27-604.   Setback
§ 27-605.   Conformance with Building Regulations
Part 7
Signs
§ 27-701.   R-a and R-b Residence Districts
Part 8
Applications and Permits
§ 27-801.   Duty of Zoning Officer
§ 27-802.   Building Permit Application
§ 27-803.   Permit Issuance; Compliance
§ 27-804.   Unlawful to Commence Without Permit
§ 27-805.   Fee
§ 27-806.   Application Blanks
§ 27-807.   Zoning Officer Appointment
Part 9
Zoning Hearing Board
§ 27-901.   Appointment
§ 27-902.   Jurisdiction
§ 27-903.   Adoption of Rules
§ 27-904.   Hearings
§ 27-905.   Meetings; Minutes
§ 27-906.   Record
§ 27-907.   Appeal or Application Blanks
Part 10
Amendments
§ 27-1001.    Enactment of Zoning Ordinance Amendments
§ 27-1002.   Duty of Borough Council
§ 27-1003.    Opportunity to be Heard
Part 11
General Provisions
§ 27-1101.   Multifamily Dwellings
§ 27-1102.   Row Houses
§ 27-1103.   Buildings of Public Service Corporations
§ 27-1104.   Height Restriction
§ 27-1105.   Projection Into Front Yard
§ 27-1106.   Projection Into Side Yard
§ 27-1107.   Projection Into Rear Yard
§ 27-1108.   Obstruction of View
§ 27-1109.   Open Spaces
§ 27-1110.   Nonconforming Uses
§ 27-1111.   Interpretation, Purpose and Conflict
§ 27-1112.   Enforcement Notice
§ 27-1113.   Causes of Action
§ 27-1114.   Enforcement Remedies
§ 27-1115.   Eminent Domain
§ 27-1116.   Gambling Facilities
Part 12
Zoning Map Amendments
Part 1
Definitions
§ 27-101.   Definitions.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall, for the
purpose of this Chapter, have the meaning herein indicated.
   Accessory building–a building subordinate to the main building on a lot and
used for purposes customarily incidental to the main building.
   Alteration–as applied to a building, is any change or rearrangement in the
structural parts, or any enlargement, whether by extending on any side or by
increasing in height or moving from 1 location or position to another.
   Building–any structure affording shelter to persons, animals or chattels,
including a wall or solid fence over 4 feet high.
   Building area–the building area is the aggregate of the maximum horizontal
cross section area of the main building on a lot, excluding cornices, eaves,
gutters or chimneys, projection not more than 18 inches, steps, 1-story open
porches, bay windows not extending through more than 1-story and not projecting
more than 5 feet, balconies and terraces.
   District–a district includes all buildings and lots within certain
designated boundaries as indicated on the zoning map or maps.
   Front street–the street upon which a lot abuts. If a plot abuts upon more
than 1 street, it means the street designated as the “front street” in an
application for a building permit at the applicant’s election.
   Garage, minor–a building not a private garage, 1-story in height, used for
the storage of automobiles and not used for making repairs thereto.
   Garage, public–a building other than a private or minor garage, 1 or more
storied in height, used for the storage, maintenance and repair of automobiles.
   Height–the height of a building shall be measured from the mean level of the
ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest and
lowest points of the roof; provided, that chimneys, spires, towers, elevator
penthouses, tanks and similar projections shall not be included in the height.
   Lot–the parcel of land on which a principal building and its accessories are
placed, together with the required open space.
   Lot area–the area of a lot on which 1 building and its accessories are
located, provided, that the area shall be measured to the street line only.
   Lot, corner–a lot on the corner fronting not more than 50 feet on 1 street
and not more than 200 feet on an intersecting street.
   Multifamily dwelling–a building, not a 1-family dwelling nor a 2-family
dwelling, designed for and occupied exclusively as a home or residence such as
an apartment house, boarding house or hotel.
   Office building–a building designed or used primarily for office purposes,
no part of which is used for manufacturing. [A.O.]
   One-family detached dwelling–a house accommodating but a single family and
having no party wall or walls in common with an adjacent house or houses.
   Semidetached or twin dwelling–2 attached dwellings when separated from the
ground up by a division wall and with no communicating openings, designed and
occupied exclusively as a private home or residence for not more than 1 family
in each.
   Street–includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway,
lane, alley, viaduct or any other ways used or intended to be used by vehicular
traffic or pedestrians, whether public or private. [A.O.]
   Street line–the dividing line between a lot and a public street, road or
highway or a private street, road or highway over which 2 or more dominant
estates have the right-of-way.
   Structure–any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land. [A.O.]
   Two-family detached dwelling–a house accommodating altogether but 2
families, with on living over the other. Such dwelling has moreover no party
wall or walls in common with an adjacent house or houses.
   Yard, front–the required open space between the street line and the nearest
part of any building on the lot, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters or chimneys
projecting not more than 18 inches, steps, 1-story open or closed porches, bay
windows not extending through more than 1-story and not projecting more than 5
feet, open balconies and terraces.
   Yard, rear–a yard of the full width of the lot, located between the extreme
rear line of the building, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters, chimneys
projecting not more than 18 inches and uncovered steps, and the extreme rear
line of the lot, or the nearest side line of a street, driveway or alley.
   Yard, side–the required open space extending along the side lot line and
extending from the street to the rear of the yard, excluding cornices, eaves,
gutters and chimneys projecting not more than 18 inches and uncovered steps.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 100; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
Part 2
Districts
§ 27-201.   Designated Districts.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the Borough of Troy is hereby divided into
4 separate and definite districts which shall be designated as follows:
   A.   R-a Residence Districts.
   B.   R-b Residence Districts.
   C.   C Business Districts.
   D.   I Manufacturing and Industrial Districts.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 200; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-202.   District Boundaries.
   The boundaries of said districts shall be as shown upon the map attached to
and made a part of this Chapter, which shall be designated and known as the
“Zoning Map.” The said map with all the notations, references, measurements,
scales and other things shown thereon is hereby constituted and shall be as
much a part of this Chapter as if the matters and things shown by and upon said
map were all fully described herein.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 201; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-203.   Boundary Lines.
   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated, either the
center lines of highways or railroad rights-of-way, or such lines extended.
Where figures are shown on the Zoning Map between the street and a district
boundary line, they indicate that the district boundary line run parallel to
the street line at a distance therefrom equivalent to the number of feet so
indicated.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 202; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-204.   Extension of Restrictions.
   When a district boundary line divides a lot held in a single and separate
ownership at the time of the adoption of this Chapter, the regulations as to
the use in the less restricted district shall extend for a distance of not more
than 50 feet beyond the district boundary line; provided, that in no case of a
lot other than a corner lot, the regulation as to the use of a less restricted
district may extend a distance of more than 50 feet beyond the district
boundary line when authorized by a special exception by the Zoning Hearing
Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 203; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
Part 3
R-a Residence Districts
§ 27-301.   Application of Regulations.
   The following regulations shall apply to R-a Residence Districts.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 300; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-302.   Erection, Alternation and Use of Buildings.
   A building may be erected, altered or used, and a lot or premises may be
used for the following purposes, and no other:
   A.   One-family detached dwelling.
   B.   Club, fraternity house, lodge, when authorized as a special exception
by the Zoning Hearing Board, except where the principal activity is 1 carried
on as a business. [A.O.]
   C.   Educational, religious, and philanthropic use, including dormitories of
any educational institution when authorized as a special exception by the
Zoning Hearing Board, but excluding hospitals, sanatorium, penal or
correctional institutions. [A.O.]
   D.   Hospital or sanatorium, when authorized as a special exception by the
Zoning Hearing Board. [A.O.]
   E.   Accessory use on the same lot with, and customarily incidental to, any
of the above permitted uses, including a private garage; also professional
office or studio for personal use of a doctor or physician, surgeon, dentist,
artist, teacher, architect, musician, lawyer, real estate and/or insurance
broker, magistrate, or practitioner of a similar character to any of the
foregoing, or rooms used for home occupations, including dressmaking, millinery
or tailor, bed and breakfast, beautician, day care or tourist homes; provided,
that the office, studio or occupational room is located in the residence of the
practitioner or in a building attached thereto; and, provided further, that no
goods are publicly displayed nor business solicited other than by the display
of a sign not exceeding 2 square feet in dimension, placed between the front
sidewalk and the house or upon the house and no space is rented out or devoted
to the use of any other person than the owner or the tenant of said premises
and not more than 3 assistants are therein employed, and that the essential
character of the building as a residence is maintained. [A.O.]
   F.   Signs when erected and maintained in accordance with the provisions of
Part 7 hereof.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 301; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-303.   Building Area.
   The building area shall not exceed 33.33 percent of the lot area.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 302; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-304.   Front Yard.
   There shall be a front yard, the depth of which shall be at least 30 feet;
provided, that in the case of a lot extending through from 1 street to another
street, the lines of which are not more than 150 feet apart, the depth of the
front yard on the rear street line may be decreased, when authorized by the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 303; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-305.   Front Yard; Corner Lots.
   In the case of a corner lot, a front yard as provided for in §
27-304 shall be required on each street on which the lot abuts; provided, that
if at the effective date of this Chapter any corner lot with a width of less
than 50 feet be held in single and separate ownership, the depth of the front
yard on the long side of the lot may be decreased when authorized as a special
exception by the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 304; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-306.   Side Yards; One-Family Detached Dwelling.
   In the case of a 1-family detached dwelling, there shall be 2 side yards, 1
on each side of the main building, the aggregate width of which shall be not
less than 16 feet. Neither side yard shall be less than 6 feet wide; provided,
that if at the effective date of this Chapter, a lot with a width less than 50
feet be held in single and separate ownership, a 1-family detached dwelling may
be built thereon with side yards of less than the stipulated width, when
authorized as a special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board; and, provided
further, that in the case of 1-family detached dwelling constructed with its
greater dimension parallel with the front street, a 1-story porch, whether
enclosed or unenclosed, may project into 1 of the side yards, provided the
width of such side yard is not thereby reduced to less than the required
minimum of 6 feet.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 305; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-307.   Side Yards; Other Buildings.
   In the case of any building other than a 1-family detached dwelling or a
building accessory thereto, there shall be 2 side yards. If such building is
not over 40 feet high, the width of each of the 2 side yards shall be not less
than 16 feet; and if such building is over 40 feet high, this width shall be
increased 6 feet for each 12 feet or fractional portion thereof by which the
building exceeds 40 feet in height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 306; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-308.   Rear Yards.
   There shall be a rear yard, the depth of which shall be at least 15 feet;
provided, that if at the effective date of this Chapter any lot with a depth
less than 150 feet to be held in single and separate ownership, the depth of
the rear yard may be reduced to not less than 12 feet. In the case of a
building over 40 feet high, this depth shall be increased 6 feet for each 12
feet or fractional portion thereof by which the building exceeds 40 feet in
height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 307; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-309.   Conformance to Building Regulations.
   All buildings shall conform to the building regulations of the Borough in
effect at the time of the erection thereof.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 308; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-310.   Frontage.
   The lot shall have a frontage of at least 50 feet.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 309; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 4
R-b Residence Districts
§ 27-401.   Application of Regulations.
   The following regulations shall apply in R-b Residence Districts.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 400; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-402.   Erection, Alteration and Use of Buildings.
   A building may be erected, altered or used and a lot or premises may be used
for the following purposes, and no other:
   A.   Any use permitted in the R-a Residence Districts hereunder, without the
need to apply for or obtain any special exception or variance therefore and
without any requirement that the owner reside on the premises in order to
support or justify the use so made of the real estate. [Ord. 98-1]
   B.   Two-family detached dwellings; semidetached dwellings; multifamily
dwellings.
   C.   Penal or correctional institutions when authorized as a special
exception by the Zoning Hearing Board. [A.O.]
   D.   Minor garage, when authorized as a special exception by the Zoning
Hearing Board; provided, that the minor garage shall be built and located to
the rear of the rear line of the main building and be located not less than 20
feet from any street.
   E.   Funeral home or mortuary. [Ord. 98-1]
   F.   Banks and similar financial institutions may be permitted by the Troy
Borough Zoning Hearing Board as a conditional use; provided, that the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The design of the proposed structure is not inconsistent with the
nature of surrounding architecture.
      (2)   Adequate provisions are made for off-street parking and traffic
control.
      (3)   Illumination of the site will be kept to the minimum illumination
necessary for adequate security.
      (4)   Signs, not attached flat to the building shall be limited to 1 sign
nor more than 20 square feet in area; and, further provided, that they are kept
in good repair as required by Part 7 hereof.
[Ord. 01-2]
   G.   Signs in R-b Residence Districts shall be permitted; provided, that
they comply with the provisions set forth in Part 7 hereof. [Ord. 01-2]
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 401; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by Ord 98-1, 4/21/1998, §§ (B), (B); by Ord. 01-2, 6/11/2001, § 1; and by A.O.)
§ 27-403.   Building Area.
   Building area shall not exceed 33.33 percent of the lot area.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 402; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-404.   Front Yard.
   There shall be a front yard, the depth of which shall be not less than 20
feet; provided, that in the case of a lot extending through from 1 street to
another street, the lines of which are not more than 150 feet apart, the depth
of the front yard on the rear street line may be decreased when authorized a
special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 403; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-405.   Front Yard; Corner Lot.
   In the case of a corner lot, a front yard as provided for in §
27-404 shall be required on each street on which the lot abuts; provided, that
if at the effective date of this Chapter any corner lot with a width of less
than 40 feet be held in single and separate ownership, the depth of the front
yard on the long side of the lot may be decreased, when authorized as a special
exception by the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 404; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-406.   Side Yards; One-Family or Two-Family Dwellings.
   In the case of a 1-family or 2-family detached dwelling, there shall be 2
side yards, 1 on each side of the main building, the aggregate width of which
shall be not less than 12 feet. Neither side yard shall be less than 4 feet
wide; provided, if on the effective date of this Chapter a lot with a width of
less than 30 feet be held in single and separate ownership, a single-family
dwelling may be built thereon with side yards less than the stipulated width
when authorized as a special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board; and,
provided further, that in the case of a 1-family or 2-family detached dwelling
constructed with its greater dimension parallel with the front street a 1-story
porch, either enclosed or unenclosed, may project into 1 of the side yards,
provided that the width of such side yard is not thereby reduced to less than
the required minimum of 4 feet.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 405; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-407.   Side Yard; One-Family Semidetached Dwelling.
   In the case of a 1-family semidetached dwelling there shall 1 side yard
which shall be at least 6 feet.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 406; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-408.   Side Yards; Other Buildings.
   In any case of any building other than a 1-family detached dwelling or 2-
family detached dwelling or a 1-family semidetached dwelling or a building
accessory thereto, there shall be 2 side yards. If such building is not over 40
feet high, the width of each of the 2 side yards shall not be less than 9 feet
and if such building is over 40 feet high, this width shall be increased 5 feet
for each 12 feet or fractional portion thereof by which the building exceeds 40
feet in height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 407; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-409.   Rear Yards.
   There shall be a rear yard, the depth of which shall be at least 12 feet;
provided, that if at the effective date of this Chapter, any lot with a depth
of 100 feet or less be held in single and separate ownership, the depth of the
rear yard may be reduced to not less than 8 feet. In the case of a building
over 40 feet high, this depth shall be increased 5 feet for each 12 feet or
fractional portion thereof by which the building exceeds 40 feet in height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 408; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-410.   Conformance to Building Regulations.
   All buildings shall conform to the building regulations of the Borough in
effect at the time of the erection thereof.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 409; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-411.   Multifamily Residences; Off-Street Parking.
   In the case of multifamily residences, off-street parking shall be required
in the form of 2 parking spaces per apartment or household unit.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 410; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as added by
Ord. 78-5, 5/15/1978, § 1)
Part 5
C Business Districts
§ 27-501.   Application of Regulations.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C Business District.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 500; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-502.   Erection, Alteration and Use of Buildings.
   A building may be erected, altered or used and a lot or premises may be used
for any of the following purposes, and for no other:
   A.   All uses permitted in R-a or R-b Residence Districts.
   B.   Greenhouse.
   C.   Store.
   D.   Office, bank, financial institution, telephone or telegraph business.
   E.   Place of amusement or parking lot.
   F.   Motel, restaurant, excluding lunch wagons, automobiles and other
similar vehicles from which food is sold, bakery, pastry, candy, confectionery
or ice cream shop.
   G.   Public or minor garage; sale, service and repair shop and gas filling
station and battery service station, when authorized by special exception of
the Zoning Hearing Board, provided, that no pump or other filling or service
device shall be located within 20 feet of the curb. [A.O.]
   H.   Store house, express, carting or hauling office or station.
   I.   Carpenter, cabinet making, furniture or upholstery shop, electrician
shop, metal working, tinsmith, plumbing, gas, steam or hot water fitting shop,
paint store and paperhanger.
   J.   Creamery, butter or cheese making, milk bottling or distributing
station.
   K.   Laundry, dry cleaning or dyeing, tailoring, dressmaking, shoemaking and
repairing.
   M.   Jewelry, watches, clocks or optical goods, and musical, professional or
scientific instruments, repair or manufacture.
   N.   Hospital or sanatorium.
   O   Newspaper or job printing; bookbinding.
   P.   Barbershop, hairdressing or manicure establishment, beauty parlor.
   Q.   Undertaking and embalming.
   R.   Accessory use on the same lot with the customarily incidental to any of
the above permitted uses and not detrimental to the neighborhood.
   S.   Any use of the same general character as any of the uses hereinbefore
specifically permitted and not detrimental to the neighborhood, when authorized
as a special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board, in accordance with §§
27-901 and
27-906 of this Chapter. [A.O]
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 501; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-503.   Prohibitions.
   No building shall be erected, altered or used, and no lot or premises may be
used for any trade, industry or business that is noxious or offensive by reason
of odor, dust, smoke, gas or noise, or that is dangerous to the public health
and safety. No internal combustion engine shall be used unless objectionable
noise and vibration be eliminated and it is equipped and supplied with an
effective muffler and silencer.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 502; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-504.   Rear Yard.
   If a building lot is used in whole or in part as a dwelling, there shall be
a rear yard, the depth of which shall be at least 15 feet. In case such
building is over 40 feet high, the depth of the rear yard shall be increased 3
feet for each 12 feet or portion thereof by which the building exceeds 40 feet
in height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 503; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-505.   Conformance to Building Regulations.
   All buildings shall conform to the building regulations at the time of the
erection thereof.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 504; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 6
I Manufacturing and Industrial District
§ 27-601.   Application of Regulations.
   The following regulations shall apply in an I Manufacturing and Industrial
District.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 600; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-602.   Unlawful Purposes.
   A building may be erected, altered or used, and a lot or premises may be
used, for any lawful purpose, except the following:
   A.   Acetylene gas manufacture.
   B.   Acid manufacture.
   C.   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
   D.   Arsenal.
   E.   Asphalt manufacture or refining.
   F.   Candle manufacture.
   G.   Celluloid manufacture.
   H.   Coke ovens.
   I.   Creosote treatment or manufacture.
   J.   Disinfectants manufacture.
   K.   Distillation of bones, coal and wood.
   L.   Dyestuff manufacture.
   M.   Extermination or insect poison manufacture.
   N.   Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacture.
   0.   Fat rendering.
   P.   Fertilizer manufacture.
   Q.   Fish, smoking or curing.
   R.   Glue, size or gelatine manufacture.
   S.   Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
   T.   Lamp black manufacture.
   U.   Match manufacture.
   V.   Oil cloth or linoleum manufacture.
   W.   Oiled or rubber goods manufacture.
   X.   Ore reduction.
   Y.   Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish manufacture.
   Z.   Petroleum refining or storage.
   AA.   Plating works.
   BB.   Potash works.
   CC.   Printing ink manufacture.
   DD.   Proxlin manufacture.
   EE.   Rubber, caoutchouc or gutta percha manufacture or treatment.
   FF.   Salt works.
   GG.   Sauerkraut manufacture.
   HH.   Shoe blacking manufacture.
   II.   Smelters.
   JJ.   Soda and compound manufacture.
   KK.   Stock yards.
   LL.   Stove polish manufacture.
   MM.   Sulfuric, nitric or hydrochloric acid manufacture.
   NN.   Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining.
   00.   Tanning, curing or storage of leather, rawhides or skins.
   PP.   Tar distillation or manufacture.
   QQ.   Tar roofing or water proofing manufacture.
   RR.   Vinegar manufacture.
   SS.   Wool pulling or scouring.
   TT.   Yeast plant.
   UU.   Any use which may be noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of
odor, dust, fumes, smoke, gas, vibration or noise.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 601; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-603.   Rear Yard.
   If a building on a lot is used in whole or in part as a dwelling there shall
be a rear yard, the depth of which shall be at least 15 feet. In case such
building be over 40 feet high, the depth shall be increased 5 feet for each 12
feet or fractional portion thereof by which the building exceeds 40 feet in
height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 602; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-604.   Setback.
   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from the street line of any
street on which the lot abuts.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 603; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-605.   Conformance with Building Regulations.
   All buildings shall conform to the building regulations of the Borough in
effect at the time of erection thereof.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 604; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 7
Signs
§ 27-701.   R-a and R-b Residence Districts.
   In R-a and R-b Residence Districts, signs may be erected and maintained only
when in compliance with the following provisions of this section and in
compliance with any and all other ordinances and regulations of the Borough of
Troy relating in any way to the erection, alteration or maintenance of signs,
billboards, banners and other advertising devices:
   A.   Signs advertising the sale and/or rental of the premises upon which
they are erected, when erected by a broker or other person interested in the
sale and rental of such premises, may be erected and maintained; provided: (1)
the size of any such sign is not in excess of 6 square feet; and (2) not more
than 1 sign be placed upon any property in single and separate ownership,
unless such property fronts upon more than 1 street, in which event 1 sign may
be erected on each frontage.
   B.   Signs advertising the sale and/or development of the premises upon
which they are erected, when erected in connection with the development of the
premises by a builder, contractor, developer or other person interested in such
sales and development, may be erected and maintained; provided: (1) the size of
any such sign is not in excess of 20 square feet; and (2) not more than 1 sign
be placed upon any property in single and separate ownership unless such
property fronts upon more than 1 street, in which event, 1 sign may be erected
on each frontage.
   C.   Signs indicating the location and direction of premises available for
or in process of development, but not erected upon such premises, and having
inscribed thereon the name of the owner, developer, builder or agent may be
erected and maintained; provided: (1) the size of any such sign is not in
excess of 6 square feet and not in excess of 4 feet in length; and (2) not more
than 1 sign is erected on each 500 feet of street frontage. Such signs may have
arrows painted thereon but such signs may not be in any form except a square or
parallelogram.
   D.   Signs bearing the word “sold” or the word “rented” with the name of the
person effecting the sale or rental may be erected and maintained; provided,
the conditions specified in paragraph .A hereof are complied with.
   E.   Signs of mechanics, painters and other artisans may be erected and
maintained during the period such persons are performing work on the premises
on which such signs are erected; provided: (1) the size thereof is not in
excess of 12 square feet; and (2) such signs are removed promptly upon
completion of the work. This provision shall not be deemed to permit the
erection of signs advertising that furnishings or such signs are hereby
prohibited.
   F.   In R-b Residential Districts, churches may erect signs no larger than
30 square feet in area, provided that:
      (1)   The church building fronts on a street other than the street from
which motor vehicle traffic enters the church parking lot.
      (2)   The sign conveys no more information that the name of the church
and words indicating the existence of an entrance or parking lot for the same.
      (3)   The sign and its lettering are symmetrical, made of durable wood or
metal materials resistant to weathering and consist of gold lettering and trim
on a green background.
      (4)   Any such sign which becomes cracked, chipped of paint, rusted or
dilapidated shall be repaired to new condition or removed.
[Ord. 91-3]
   G.   In addition to the other requirements of this section, every sign
referred to in this Chapter must be constructed of durable materials, must be
kept in good condition and repair, and not allowed to become dilapidated.
Except as provided in other ordinances or regulations of the Borough of Troy,
the construction or erection of any such signs within the lines of public
highways is prohibited.
   H.   No permit will be required for the erection, alteration or maintenance
of any signs referred to in this section.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 700; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; as amended by
Ord. 90- 2A, 5/20/1990; and by Ord. 91-3, 5/21/1991)
Part 8
Applications and Permits
§ 27-801.   Duty of Zoning Officer.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer and he or she is hereby given the
power and authority to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 800; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-802.   Building Permit Application.
   The Zoning Officer, before granting any building permits, shall require that
the applications shall be accompanied by a plot plan containing all the
information necessary to enable him or her to ascertain whether the proposed
building complies with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 801; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-803.   Permit Issuance; Compliance.
   No building permit shall be issued until the Zoning Officer has certified
that the proposed building or alteration of any existing building complies with
all the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 802; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-804.   Unlawful to Commence Without Permit.
   It shall be unlawful for any firm or corporation, or any agents, contractors
or subcontractors or employees thereof to commence or prosecute work for the
erection or material alteration or construction, reconstruction, raising,
moving, extending, enlarging, or material repairing of any building until a
building permit has been duly issued therefor, where such permit is required by
existing ordinance and until the provisions of this Chapter have been duly met:
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 803; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-805.   Fee.
   A filing fee shall be determined by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 804; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-806.   Application Blanks.
   Building permit application blanks may be obtained from the Borough
Secretary or Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 805; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-807.   Zoning Officer Appointment.
   The Zoning Officer shall be appointed by the Council at the first meeting in
January. His or her appointment shall be for 1 year but it may be terminated at
any time by a vote of the Council.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 806; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 9
Zoning Hearing Board
§ 27-901.   Appointment.
   The Borough Council of the Borough of Troy shall appoint a Zoning Hearing
Board, to consist of 3 members, 1 of whom shall be designated to serve until
the first day of January, 1959, 1 until the first day of January, 1960, and 1
until the first day of January, 1961. Their successor shall be appointed, on
the expiration of their respective terms, to serve for 3 years.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 900; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-902.   Jurisdiction.
   1.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      A.   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except those brought before the Borough pursuant to §§ 609.1 and 916.1(a)(2) of
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter “MPC”), 53 P.S. §§
10609.1, 10916.1.
      B.   Challenges to the validity of a land use ordinance raising
procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or
adoption, which challenges shall be raised by an appeal taken within 30 days
after the effective date of said ordinance. Where the ordinance appealed from
is the initial zoning ordinance of the Borough and a Zoning Hearing Board has
not been previously established, the appeal raising procedural questions shall
be taken directly to court.
      C.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application therefor, the issuance of any cease and desist order or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure or lot.
      D.   Appeals from a determination by the Borough Engineer or the Zoning
Officer with reference to the administration of any floodplain or flood hazard
ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance.
      E.   Applications for variances from the terms of this Chapter and flood
hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance, pursuant to §
910.2 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10910.2.
      F.   Applications for special exceptions under this Chapter or floodplain
or flood hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance,
pursuant to § 912.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10912.1.
      G.    Appeals from the determination of any officer or agency charged
with the administration of any transfer of development rights or performance
density provisions of this Chapter.
      H.   Appeals from the Zoning Officer’s determination under § 916.2 of the
MPC, 53 P.S. § 10916.2.
      I.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Borough
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and stormwater management
insofar as the same relate to development not involving applications under
Article V or VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq., 10701 et seq.
   2.   The Borough Council, shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      A.   All applications for approval of planned residential developments
under Article VII of the MPC pursuant to the provisions of § 702 of the MPC, 53
P.S. § 10702.
      B.   All applications pursuant to § 508 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10508, for
approval of subdivisions or land developments under Article V of the MPC, 53
P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.
      C.   Applications for conditional use under the express provisions of
this Chapter.
      D.   Applications for curative amendment to this Chapter or pursuant to
§§ 609.1 and 916.1(a) of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10609.1,10916.1(a).
      E.   All petitions for amendments to land use ordinances, pursuant to the
procedures set forth in § 609 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10609.
      F.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or the Borough
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provisions thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and stormwater management
insofar as the same relate to applications for land development under Articles
V and VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq., §§ 10701 et seq. Where such
determination relates only to development not involving an Article V or VII
application, the appeal from such determination of the Zoning Officer or the
Borough Engineer shall be to the Zoning Hearing Board pursuant to this section.
Where the applicable land use ordinance vests jurisdiction for final
administration of subdivision and land development applications in the Planning
Commission, all appeals from determinations under this subsection .2 shall be
to the Planning Commission and all appeals from the decision of the Planning
Commission shall be to court.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 901; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-903.   Adoption of Rules.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter, governing the manner of filing appeals, or applications for
special exceptions, or for variance from the terms of this Chapter, and shall
require the payment in advance of a filing fee in an amount as established from
time to time by resolution of the Borough Council, and a further payment of the
estimated cost of giving notice of the hearing of such application, as
hereinafter required, fees of Borough Officers, if any, and other incidental
expenses. Unless said rules are complied with and said filing fee and estimated
costs are paid, the Zoning Hearing Board shall not be required to act upon any
application.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 903; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-904.   Hearings.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in
accordance with the following requirements:
   A.   Public notice shall be given and written notice shall be given to the
applicant, the Zoning Officer and to any person who has made timely request for
the same. Written notices shall be given at such time and in such manner as
shall be prescribed by rules of the Board. In addition to the written notice
provided herein, written notice of said hearing shall be conspicuously posted
on the affected tract of land at least 1 week prior to the hearing.
   B.   The hearing shall be held within 60 days from the date of the
applicant’s request, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension
of time.
   C.   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board or the Board may appoint
any member as a hearing officer. The decision or, where no decision is called
for, the findings shall be made by the Board, however, the appellant or the
applicant, as the case may be, in addition to the Borough may, prior to the
decision of the hearing, waive decision or findings by the Board and accept the
decision or findings of the hearing officer as final.
   D.   The parties to the hearing shall be the Borough, any person affected by
the application who has made timely appearance of record before the Board, and
any other person including civic or community organizations permitted to appear
by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons who wish
to be considered parties enter appearances in writing on forms provided by the
Board for that purpose.
   E.   The Chairperson or Acting Chairperson of the Board or the hearing
officer presiding shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and
papers, including witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
   F.   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and shall
be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument and
cross- examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
   G.   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
   H.   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or hearing officer or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Board if such appeal is made, and in either event the cost of
additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such copy or copies.
In other cases the party requesting the original transcript shall bear the cost
thereof.
   I.   The Board or the hearing officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his or her representatives in connection with any
issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate, shall not take notice of any communication, reports, staff
memoranda or other materials, except advice from their solicitor, unless the
parties are afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed and
shall not inspect the site or its surroundings after the commencement of
hearings with any party or his or her representative unless all parties are
given an opportunity to be present.
   J.   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall render a
written decision or, when no decision is called for, make written findings on
the application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board or
hearing officer. Where the application is contested or denied, each decision
shall be accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together
with the reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of this Chapter
or of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation shall contain a reference to the
provision relied on and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed appropriate in
the light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer,
and there has been no stipulation that his or her decision or findings are
final, the Board shall make his or her report and recommendations available to
the parties within 45 days and the parties shall be entitled to make written
representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or entry of
findings, and the Board’s decision shall be entered no later than 30 days after
the report of the hearing officer. Where the Board fails to render the decision
within the period required by this paragraph .J, or fails to hold the required
hearing within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s request for a hearing,
the decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in favor of the applicant
unless the applicant has agreed in writing or on the record to an extension of
time. When a decision has been rendered in favor of the applicant because of
the failure of the Board to meet or render a decision as hereinabove provided,
the Board shall give public notice of the said decision within 10 days from the
last day it could have met to render a decision in the same manner as provided
in paragraph .A of this section. If the Board shall fail to provide such
notice, the applicant may do so. Nothing in this paragraph .J shall prejudice
the right of any party opposing the application to appeal the decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   K.   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for, of
the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him or
her not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have
filed their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
   L.   The Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, fees with respect
to hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 903; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-905.   Meetings; Minutes.
   All meetings of the Zoning Hearing Board shall be open to the public. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board, and shall be a public
record.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 904; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-906.   Record.
   The officer or department from whose action the aforesaid appeal is taken
shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning Hearing Board all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 905; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-907.   Appeal or Application Blanks.
   The Zoning Hearing Board appeal or application blanks may be obtained from
Board members or from the Borough Secretary.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 906; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
Part 10
Amendments
§ 27-1001.   Enactment of Zoning Ordinance Amendments
   1.   The Borough Council may from time to time amend, supplement or repeal
any of the regulations and provisions of this Chapter. The procedure for the
preparation of a proposed zoning ordinance as set forth in § 607 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10607, is hereby declared
optional.
   2.   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the Borough Council
shall hold a public hearing thereon, pursuant to public notice. In addition, if
the proposed amendment involves a zoning map change, notice of said public
hearing shall be conspicuously posted by the Borough at points deemed
sufficient by the Borough along the perimeter of the tract to notify
potentially interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be posted at
least 1 week prior to the date of the hearing.
   3.   In the case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning
Commission the Borough Council shall submit each such amendment to the Planning
Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment to
provide the Planning Commission an opportunity to submit recommendations.
   4.   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially, or is revised to include land previously
not affected by it, the Borough Council shall hold another public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on the amendment.
   5.   At least 30 days prior to the public hearing on the amendment by the
Borough Council, the Borough shall submit the proposed amendment to the County
Planning Agency for recommendations.
   6.   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to this Chapter
shall be forwarded to the County Planning Agency.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1000, 1001; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as
amended by A.O.)
§ 27-1002.   Duty of Borough Council.
   Whenever the owners of 50 percent or more of the frontage in any district,
or part thereof, shall present to the Borough Council of the Borough of Troy a
petition duly signed requesting the amendment, supplement, change, modification
or repeal of the regulation hereby prescribed for such district, or part
thereof, it shall be the duty of the Borough Council of the Borough of Troy to
hold a public hearing thereon and to cause notice thereof to be given in the
manner prescribed in §
27-1002.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 100; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1003.   Opportunity to Be Heard.
   At such public hearing, full opportunity to be heard shall be given to any
citizen and all parties in interest.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1003; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
Part 11
General Provisions
§ 27-1101.   Multifamily Dwellings.
   Multifamily dwellings shall be limited to 4 stories in height when located
in residence districts. They shall be used for residential purposes only and no
stores or shops shall be provided for in their construction.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1100; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1102.   Row Houses.
   It shall be unlawful to build or construct solid row houses in the Borough
of Troy and no permits shall be issued or permission given for the construction
of such houses.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1101; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1103.   Buildings of Public Service Corporations.
   This Chapter shall not apply to any existing or proposed building, or
extension thereof, used or to be used by a public service corporation, if, upon
petition of the corporation, the Public Utility Commission shall, after public
hearing, decide that the present or proposed situation of the building in
question is reasonably necessary for the convenience or welfare of the public.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1102; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1104.   Height Restriction.
   No building shall exceed 85 feet in height.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1103; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1105.   Projection into Front Yard.
   No building and no part of a building shall be erected within, or shall
project into, the front yard prescribed herein, except cornices, eaves, gutters
or chimneys projecting not more than 18 inches and steps and 1-story open or
enclosed porches, bay windows not extending through more than 1 terrace;
provided, that no porch enclosed or unenclosed shall project into the front
yard more than 12 feet, or shall be closer to the side line of the lot than 8
feet.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1104; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1106.   Projection into Side Yard.
   No building and no part of a building shall be erected within, or shall
project into, the side yard prescribe hereunder, except cornices, eaves,
gutters or chimneys projecting not more than 18 inches and steps and terraces;
provided, that an accessory building may be built or constructed within 1 of
the side yards if entirely separated from the main building and located at
least 10 feet farther back from the front street line than the rearmost portion
of the main building, and at least 5 feet from any party lines.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1105; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1107.   Projection into Rear Yard.
   No building and no part of a building shall be erected within, or shall
project into, the rear yard prescribed hereunder, except cornices, eaves,
gutters or chimneys projecting not more than 1-story and not projecting more
than 5 feet and steps, 1-story open porches, open balconies and terraces;
provided, that an accessory building may be built or constructed within the
rear yard if entirely separated from the main building and located at least 10
feet farther back from the front street line than the rearmost portion of the
main building; and, provided further, that if the distance from the rear line
of the lot to the line limiting the rear by any covenant or restriction in the
title to the lot be less than 75 feet, then a portion of the main building not
wider than 20 percent of the width of the lot may project not more than 20 feet
into the rear yard.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1106; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1108.   Obstruction of View.
   On no corner lot shall a wall, fence or other structure be erected or
altered, or a hedge, tree, shrub or other growth be maintained so as to cause
danger to street traffic by obscuring the view.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1107; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1109.   Open Spaces.
   No lot area shall be so diminished or reduced that the dimensions or any of
the open spaces shall be smaller than herein prescribed.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1108; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1110.   Nonconforming Uses.
   1.   The lawful use of a building or premises as existing on the effective
date of this Chapter or authorized by a building permit issued prior thereto,
may be continued, even though such use does not conform with the provisions of
this Chapter; and such nonconforming use may be extended throughout such parts
of a building as were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
effective date of this Chapter. In specific cases, the Zoning Hearing Board may
permit further extension of nonconforming uses existing at said effective date.
[A.O.]
   2.   A nonconforming use may, at any time, be changed to a use of the same
or higher classification according to the provisions of this Chapter. Whenever
the classification of a district shall hereafter be changed, any than existing
nonconforming use in such changed district may be continued or changed to a use
of similar or higher classification; provided, all other regulations governing
the new use are complied with. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has
been discontinued or changed to a higher classification or to a conforming use,
such use shall not thereafter be changed to a use of lower classification.
   3.   No building which has been damaged by fire or by other cause, to an
extent exceeding 75 percent of its value, shall be repaired or rebuilt except
in conformity with the regulations of this Chapter.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1109; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-1111.   Interpretation, Purpose and Conflict.
   1.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Chapter, the same
shall be considered as establishing the minimum requirements for the promotion
of the health, safety and morals and general welfare of the Borough.
   2.   It is not intended by this Chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul the rules and regulations of the Board of Health of the Borough of Troy,
or the provisions of the building code of this Borough, or any rules,
regulation or permits previously adopted or used thereunder; provided, however,
that where this Chapter imposes greater restrictions upon the use of buildings
or permits, or upon the height of the buildings or require larger open spaces
than are required by such ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, the
provisions of this Chapter hereafter shall control.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1110; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964)
§ 27-1112.   Enforcement Notice.
   1.   If it appears to the Borough that a violation of this Chapter has
occurred, the Borough shall initiate enforcement proceedings by sending an
enforcement notice as provided in this section.
   2.   The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record of the
parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed a
written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that parcel and to any
other person requested in writing by the owner of record.
   3.   An enforcement notice shall state at least the following:
      A.   The name of the owner of record and any other person against whom
the Borough intends to take action.
      B.   The location of the property in violation.
      C.   The specific violation with a description of the requirements which
have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of this
Chapter.
      D.   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced and
the date before which the steps must be completed.
      E.   That the recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the
Zoning Hearing Board within a period of 10 days.
      F.   That failure to comply with the notice within the time specified,
unless extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a violation,
with possible sanctions clearly described.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1111; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-1113.   Causes of Action.
   In case any building, structure, landscaping or land is, or is proposed to
be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained or used
in violation of this Chapter, the Borough Council or, with the approval of the
Borough Council, an officer of the Borough, or any aggrieved owner or tenant of
real property who shows that his or her property or person will be
substantially affected by the alleged violation, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such building, structure, landscaping or land, or to prevent,
in or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a
violation. When any such action is instituted by a landowner or tenant, notice
of that action shall be served upon the Borough at least 30 days prior to the
time the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint on the Borough
Council. No such action may be maintained until such notice has been given.
(Ord. 4/29/1957; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as added by A.O.)
§ 27-1114.   Enforcement Remedies.
   1.   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon being
found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
Borough, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the Borough as a result thereof. No
judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the
determination of a violation by the district justice. If the defendant neither
pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the Borough may enforce the judgment
pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation, unless the district justice
determining that there has been a violation further determines that there was a
good faith basis for the person, partnership or corporation violating this
Chapter to have believed that there was no such violation, in which event there
shall be deemed to have been only 1 such violation until the fifth day
following the date of the determination of a violation by the district justice
and thereafter each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   2.   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
   3.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the Borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   4.   District justices shall have initial jurisdiction over proceedings
brought under this section.
(Ord. 4/29/1957, § 1112; as reenacted by Ord. 7-1964, 12/7/1964; and as amended
by A.O.)
§ 27-1115.   Eminent Domain.
   A.   Authorization.  The Borough of Troy, acting through the Troy Borough
Council, is hereby authorized to enter upon, appropriate, injure or destroy
private lands, property or material for public purposes in accordance with
Chapter 15 of the Pennsylvania Borough Code and Title 26 of the Pennsylvania
Consolidated Statutes, known as the Eminent Domain Code.
   B.   Procedure.  All actions taken by Troy Borough shall he in accordance
with the procedures and restrictions set forth in Chapter 15 of the
Pennsylvania Borough Code with regard to the public purposes, restrictions as
to certain property, declarations of intent, the application of Title 26
Pa.C.S., and the right to damages when appropriate, therein expressed.
(Ord. 01-2017, 8/15/2017)
§ 27-1116.   Gambling Facilities.
   Category 4 casinos are prohibited within the bounds of Troy Borough.
(Res. 17-2, 12/28/2017)
Part 12
Zoning Map Amendments
Ord. Date Location
Ord. Date  Location
1/         Defining Commercial Zone 3 as bounded by the Industrial Zone on the east; by the
25/       Industrial Zone and Residential-B Zone 6 on the north; by the Borough line on the
1960       south; by a line 200 feet equidistant from Canton Street on the west.
           Rezoning of lands bounded on the south by the Borough line, George E. Kennedy and
3-   2/11/ land lands of Dr. George E. Boyer; on the east by George E. Kennedy, Dr. George
1964 1964  E. Boyer, Ronald Pine, Charles Losey, Robert Darrow and Walter Wood; on the north
           by Weigester Street and Terrace Lane properties; on the west by the Borough line,
           rezoned industrially.
77-  7/14/ Rezoning 2 lots which front Fallbrook Street (tax map location 9-6) from
12   1977  residential to commercial.
77-  9/8/  Rezoning a parcel of land owned by Town and Country Estates from R-a to R-b.
13   1977
77-  10/   Rezoning a parcel of land formerly known as the “Crumbling Lot” and presently
14   13/   owned by Earl Cunningham from R-b to commercial.
     1977
79-  11/   Rezoning the property of Mr. and Mrs. Clifford Davis, Jr., located at 265
20   19/   Redington Avenue, from Residential 1-a to Residential 1-b.
     1979
82-1 3/15/ Rezoning the property of Mr. and Mrs. William L. Egerter, located at 160 Center
     1982  Street, from Residential 1-a to Residential 1-b.
     4/21/ Rezoning the property situated at 410 Canton Street being Tax Parcel No. 52-
98-1 1998  068.03-015-000 being the lands conveyed by Robert W. Cook, et al, to Oak Hill
           Veneer, Inc., from R-a Residence District to the R-b Residence District.
           Rezoning the property situated at 483, 495, 475 and 465 Elmira Street presently
98-3 6/19/ owned by John and Lori Koch, George and Eileen Page and the lands of the McClure
     1998  Motor Company Auto Sales from the R-b Residence District to the Class C
           Commercial District.
     10/
99-1 20/   Rezoning land situated at 9 Fallbrook Road, 485 Prospect Street from Ra to Rb.
     1999
     11/   Advertising for a zoning hearing which will amend our zoning map to change the
02-3 20/   zoning at 425 Elmira Street from Res-B to Commercial. The hearing will be held
     2002  December 18, 2002; 6:30 p.m., at the Allen F. Pierce Library, 110 Elmira Street,
           Troy, PA.
02-        Rezoning to show that the real estate situated at 425 Elmira Street, Troy,
06   –/Pennsylvania, identified as Tax Parcel No. 52-068.01-090, shall be and is hereby
           changed from zoning classification Residential - B (R-B) to Commercial (C).
           Rezoning real estate located at 115 West Main Street, being Tax Parcel No. 52-
06-  12/   068.02-207 from zoning classification Residential B (R-B) to Commercial (C) and
05   20/   changing the zoning classification of the real estate situated at 160 West Main
     2006  Street, being Tax Parcel No. 52-068.02-179 from Residential-A (R-A) to
           Residential-B (R-B)
           Rezoning a parcel of real estate owned by Lorenzo and Cummings Real Estate
13-  2/19/ Partnership, identified as tax parcel no. 52-068.01-090-000-000 and containing by
01   2013  survey 0.71 acres, more or less, with a dwelling house and garage situated
           thereon from its current zoning as Residential-B classification to a commercial
           classification.
 
Appendix
   The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical or administrative interest, it
has not been considered necessary to include their entire text. Instead, they
are arranged in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group
listed by title in chronological order. The annual budget and tax ordinances
have been listed only in the "Table of Disposition of Ordinances." Any person
who desires to read the full text of any of the ordinances or resolutions may
do so by consulting the original Ordinance Books on file in the Borough
Offices.
   The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
         
A         Annexation of Territory
         
B         Bond Issues and Loans
         
C         Franchises and Services
         
D         Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
         
E         Plan Approval
         
F         Public Property
         
G         Sewers
         
H         Streets and Sidewalks
         
I         Water
         
J         Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Appendix A
Annexation of Territory
 
Ord./Res    Date       Subject
                       Approving the petition for annexing to the Borough of
Ord. 5-1960 10/24/1960 Troy a section of Troy Township, adjacent to and west of
                       the Borough.
                       Approving the petition for annexing to the Borough of
Ord. 3-1962 4/30/1962  Troy a section of Troy Township, adjacent to and west of
                       the Borough.
                       Approving the petition for annexing to the Borough of
Ord. 1-1964 1/27/1964  Troy a section of Troy Township, adjacent to and north
                       of the Borough.
 
Appendix B
Bond Issues and Loans
Ord./Res Date Subject
Ord./ Date     Subject
Res
R-1/
1/    1/1/1924 Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $11,500.
1924
Ord.  11/2/
11/2/ 1932     Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $12,500.
1932
Ord.  8/31/
8/31/ 1936     Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $28,000.
1936
Ord.
12/   12/26/   Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of $28,000.
26/   1936
1936
Ord.  11/10/   Refunding existing debt of the Borough in the amount of $52,950, by the
77-15 1977     issuance of a general obligation note.
Ord.  12/22/   Refunding existing debt of the Borough in the amount of $52,950 by the
77-17 1977     issuance of a general obligation note.
R-87- –/–/1Accepting a revenue loan proposal submitted by Star Savings and Loan
1              Association in the amount of $105,000.
Res.  3/11/    Increasing the nonelectoral indebtedness of the Borough in the amount of
87-1  1987     $700,000 by the issuance of general obligation bonds for improvements to the
               sewage collection system.
Ord.  5/12/    Authorizing the issuance of a general obligation note in the amount of
98-2  1998     $465,000 for the purpose of refunding the Borough’s General Obligation Bonds
               of 1987.
Ord.  12/18/   Authorizing the Borough of Troy to incur nonelectoral debt in the principal
2002- 2002     amount of $1,528,048.
5
      
 
Appendix C
Franchises and Services
Ord./Res Date Subject
Ord./Res       Date      Subject
                         Granting permission to the Troy Electric Light, Heat
Ord. 2/23/1905 2/23/1905 and Power Company to erect and maintain its lines of
                         poles and wires over and under any or all streets,
                         lanes and alleys of the Borough.
                         Authorizing the Bell Telephone Company to construct,
Ord. 1/29/1917 1/29/1917 maintain and operate all necessary apparatus on, over,
                         along, underneath and through the streets, alleys and
                         highways of the Borough.
                         Authorizing the Bradford County Telephone Company to
Ord. 5/3/1929  5/3/1929  erect, construct, reconstruct, maintain and operate a
                         telephone system in the Borough.
                         Authorizing Allegheny Gas Company to construct,
                         reconstruct, maintain and operate its main, pipes,
Ord. 3/2/1931  3/2/1931  conduits and all other necessary overhead and
                         underground fixtures and appliances upon, over, under,
                         across and along the streets, alleys and highways of
                         the Borough.
                         Entering into a contract with Pennsylvania Electric
Ord. 2-1965    5/24/1965 Company for the furnishing of electric street lighting
                         service to the Borough.
Ord. 80-2      7/21/1980 Amendment to Ord. 5/3/1929.
                         Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Communicable,
Ord. 84-1      2/20/1984 Inc., to operate and maintain a community television
                         system.
Ord. 99-2      2/17/1999 Renewing a franchise held by Blue Ridge Cable for a
                         like term of 15 years.
Res. 17-5      -/-/2017  Opposing House Bill 1620, entitled the “Wireless
                         Infrastructure Deployment Bill”.
                        
 
Appendix D
Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
Ord./Res Date Subject
Ord./   Date     Subject
Res
Ord.    11/24/
11/24/  1913     Directing the Borough Secretary to procure and keep a new ordinance book.
1913
R-6/19/ 6/19/    Petitioning the State Highway Department to enter upon the repair and
1922    1922     maintenance for the state aid highway within the Borough and to provide payment
                 therefor.
R–/– A      Resolving to cover cost of street maintenance for 1923.
                 Rejecting the request of the School Board of Troy Borough to submit to the
                 voters of Troy a proposition to hire the Borough in the sum of $50,000 for the
R–/– B      improvement of its water system to the end and purpose that the gift of that
                 amount, offered to the Borough by D. E. Pomeroy, be directed to the use of the
                 school district for the building of a school house.
R-1/A/  8/25/    Authorizing participation in the Social Security system for Borough officers and
1952    1952     employees.
R-8/25/ 8/25/    Suspending the police pension annuity contract on the life of Raymond L. Haven,
1952    1952     making him eligible for Social Security.
Ord. 3- 6/26/    Approving the designation of the Endless Mountains Association as the tourist
1961    1961     promotion agency to represent the County of Bradford in all matters relevant to
                 and for all purposes of the Tourist Promotion Law.
                 Reenacts Ord. 4-1952, Ord. 5-1952, Ord. 6-1952, Ord. 1-1954, Ord. 2-1957, Ord.
Ord. 7- 12/7/    2-1960, Ord. 3-1960, Ord. 5-1960, Ord. 3-1961, Ord. 5-1962, Ord. 6-1962 and the
1964    1964     Zoning Ordinance of 1957 to correct defects in the original enactments thereof,
                 including loss of original.
                 Recognizing the Northern Tier Regional Planning and Development Commission as
R-7/27/ 7/27/    the representative agency to continue area wide planning for this and adjoining
1970    1970     regions, to perform planning for the Northern Tier area and to act as the area
                 wide review agency.
R-4/16/ 4/16/    Adopting the Northern Tier Solid Waste Management Plan as the officially adopted
1973    1973     plan of the Borough and recommending establishment of a region-wide solid waste
                 authority.
R-5/21/ 5/21/    Resolving that the Borough of Troy has a positive interest in securing flood
1973A   1973     insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program and to comply with the
                 regulations thereof.
R-5/21/ 5/21/    Resolving to take certain official action to carry out the objectives of the
1973B   1973     National Flood Insurance Program.
R-5/28/ 5/28/    Adopting amendments to the bylaws of the West Brad-Co Council of Governments.
1974    1974
R-77-1  2/10/    Supporting the CETA program.
        1977
R-77-2  3/10/    Amending the bylaws of West Brad-Co Council of Governments.
        1977
R-77-3  5/12/    Authorizing the Borough of Troy to participate in purchase contracts of the
        1977     Department of General Services.
R-77-4  7/14/    Authorizing John D. Berchtold to file application for federal financial
        1977     assistance under the Disaster Relief Act.
R-77-5  7/14/    Authorizing the Borough Manager to purchase a certificate of deposit in the name
        1977     of the Troy Borough Police Pension Fund in the amount of $9,500.
R-77-6  8/11/    Setting the time, date and place for a zoning hearing concerning a certain
        1977     rezoning within the Borough.
R-77-7  9/8/1977 Setting the time, date and place for a zoning hearing concerning a certain
                 rezoning within the Borough.
R-77-8  10/13/   Protesting the proposed regulation to increase the speed limit in school zones.
        1977
R-77-9  10/13/   Setting the time, date and place for a zoning hearing concerning a certain
        1977     rezoning within the Borough.
        12/8/    Resolving to adhere to the standards for training as established by the
R-77-10 1977     Municipal Police Officers’ Education and Training Commission while receiving
                 state funds pursuant to Act 120.
R-77-11 12/8/    Thanking Mayor Donald A. Jones for his devotion and dedication to duty and
        1977     wishing him good health, peace of mind and prosperity in the years to come.
R-77-12 12/8/    Thanking Councilmen Art Wilston and John Gelwicks for the guidance, concern and
        1977     assistance during their terms of office.
R-77-13 12/8/    Thanking Councilmen Art Wilston and John Gelwicks for the guidance, concern and
        1977     assistance during their terms of office.
R-77-14 12/8/    Urging state legislation to permit continued use of part-time police officers by
        1977     the Borough.
        1/16/    Authorizing John Parsell, President of Council, and John Berchtold, Borough
R-78-1  1978     Manager, to sign a lease rental extension of the Van Dyne Civic Building to the
                 U.S. Postal Service at an annual rate of $12,000.
R-78-2  2/20/    Appointing D. O. Rockwell to fill the unexpired term of Mayor.
        1978
R-78-3  3/20/    Directing the Borough Manager to solicit bids for the sale of a 1971 Dodge truck
        1978     and to sell a wooden desk that was formerly in the Manager’s office.
R-78-4  3/20/    Setting the time, date and place for a hearing concerning a proposed amendment
        1978     to the Zoning Ordinance of 1957.
R-78-5  4/17/    Opposing House Bill 721, Senate Bill 721 and House Bill 2178.
        1978
        5/15/    Requesting that the Public Utilities Commission evaluate the rate increase
R-78-6  1978     proposed by Pennsylvania Electric Company and consider consequent tax increases
                 that would be required if the proposed filing is approved.
R-78-7  –/–/1Requesting the Honorable Henry Hager and the Honorable Roger Madigan to cast
                 negative votes for Senate Bill 94.
R-78-8  9/7/1978 Authorizing the President and Secretary of Council to sign the deed and other
                 papers pertaining to the sale of the Van Dyne Civic Building.
R-79-1  1/15/    Requesting that Act 170 of 1978 be amended to exclude Borough officials and that
        1979     a separate code of ethics be inserted in the Borough Code.
        2/19/    Urging the Pennsylvania General Assembly to earmark 20% of any proposed gasoline
R-79-2  1979     tax increase to municipalities to help offset the rising costs of local highway
                 construction and maintenance and keep the real property tax from rising.
R-79-4  6/18/    Urging the President and the Congress to work for an early reenactment of the
        1979     Federal General Revenue Sharing Program as it now exists.
R-79-5  7/16/    Resolving to adhere to the standards of training for police officers established
        1979     by Act 120.
R-79-6  9/24/    Setting the time, date and place for a zoning hearing concerning a certain
        1979     rezoning within the Borough.
                 Opposing House Bill 1 or any other constitutional spending limit introduced in
R-80-1  2/18/    the Senate or House of Representatives and resolving that the legislature
        1980     withhold consideration of spending and tax limitations until the Governor’s tax
                 commission has submitted a report.
R-80-4  4/21/    Agreeing to have Bradford County Commissioners act as agent for the Borough in
        1980     the Critical Bridge Inventory Program.
                 Requesting a grant from the Department of Commerce of the Commonwealth of
        4/21/    Pennsylvania, under the Community Facilities Act, to be used for rehabilitation
R-80-5  1980     of water facilities and designating President of Council and the Borough Manager
                 as the officials to
                 execute and file all agreements, documents and forms pertaining thereto.
R-80-6  4/21/    Resolving to sell a cinder spreader to the highest bidder.
        1980
R-80-7  4/21/    Resolving to sell a 1977 Plymouth Fury police car, less radios, to Athens
        1980     Township for $1,200.
R-80-8  5/19/    Authorizing the Borough Manager to sell certain surplus personal property with a
        1980     value of less than $200.
                 Determining to use the 25% of Liquid Fuel Tax moneys required to be used for
        7/21/    road and street improvement for the purpose of maintenance and repair of
R-80-9  1980     existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and for the lining of
                 streams incidental to the drainage
                 of highways.
                 Resolving to accept a Community Facilities grant of $15,000 from the
R-80-11 8/18/    Pennsylvania Department of Commerce and agreeing to all conditions and
        1980     restrictions placed on the grant by the Department; and also resolving to
                 establish two separate project accounts.
        8/18/    Delegating the responsibility of police communications to Bradford County for
R-80-12 1980     the purpose of acquiring upgraded police communications equipment, which
                 equipment shall be operated by the police force of the Borough of Troy.
        10/20/   Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Secretary to sign the
R-80-13 1980     deeds, agreements and any other papers pertaining to the purchase of two
                 residential building lots adjacent to the water filter plant.
R-80-15 12/22/   Authorizing the use of Liquid Fuels Tax funds by the Borough for the purpose of
        1980     maintenance and repair of existing roads and streets of the Borough.
R-12/   12/22/   Approving the Community Development Program and filing of a preapplication for
22/1980 1980     financial assistance.
R-81-1  2/23/    Appointing Nina Wilson as Assistant Secretary.
        1981
                 Requesting a grant from the Department of Commerce of the Commonwealth of
        4/20/    Pennsylvania under the Community Facilities Act, to be used for rehabilitation
R-81-2  1981     of water facilities and designating the President of Council and the Borough
                 Manager as the officials to execute and file all agreements, documents and forms
                 pertaining thereto.
                 Resolving that Borough pay $838.14 as its prorata share of the start-up costs of
R-2/16/ 2/16/    the Emergency Communications System of Bradford County on a per capita basis in
1981    1981     proportion to other boroughs and townships in the County and, once the system is
                 implemented, to pay its proportionate share of maintenance cost.
        4/27/    Resolving to pledge funds to pay the local share of the proposed improvement of
R-81-3  1981     water facilities contingent upon receipt of the Commonwealth’s Community
                 Facilities grant, requested by R-81-2.
R-81-4  8/17/    Resolving that the Borough is unable to accept the bequest of the Holcombe house
        1981     for use as a library and museum.
                 Accepting the Community Facilities grant of $25,000 from the Department of
        8/17/    Commerce of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to be used for repair of the water
R-81-5  1981     distribution system and designating the President of Council and the Borough
                 Manager as the officials to execute and file all agreements, documents and forms
                 pertaining thereto.
                 Resolving to accept a Community Facilities grant of $25,000 from the
R-81-6  8/17/    Pennsylvania Department of Commerce and agreeing to all conditions and
        1981     restrictions placed on the grant by the Department; and also resolving to
                 establish two separate project accounts.
R-81-8  12/21/   Authorizing the use of Liquid Fuels Tax funds by the Borough for the purpose of
        1981     maintenance and repair of existing roads and streets of the Borough.
8-83-1  –/–/1Urging the President and the Congress to work for an early reenactment of the
                 Federal General Revenue Sharing Program as it now exists.
R-83-2  –/–/1Appointing Gerard Vollmer to the office of Troy Borough Councilman.
R-88-3  –/–/1Filling vacancies existing on various boards and commissions of the Borough.
R-83-4  –/–/1Appointing Charlotte Morgan as Borough Assessor.
R-84-1  –/–/1Filling vacancies existing on various boards and commissions of the Borough.
R-84-2  1/20/    Appointing Richard Garrison to the Borough Council.
        1984
R-84-3  3/19/    Approving the action of the Troy Borough Industrial Development Authority to
        1984     finance the Cummings Lumber Company project.
R-84-4  3/19/    Supporting passage of Senate Bill 1137 and House Bill 1709, increasing to 20%
        1984     the share of gasoline tax earmarked for municipal road maintenance.
R-84-8  8/20/    Approving the action of the Troy Borough Industrial Development Authority to
        1984     finance the Cummings Lumber Company project.
        1/21/    Granting permission to the Troy Municipal Authority to seek a matching grant
R-85-1  1985     from the Department of Community Affairs to aid and assist the Troy community
                 swimming pool.
        2/18/    Urging the President and the Pennsylvania senators and congressmen to reinsert
R-85-2  1985     federal revenue sharing funding in the 1985-86 budget at its fully authorized
                 funding level.
        3/18/    Adding names to the personal tax duplicates for 1985 and directing the Borough
R-85-3  1985     Manager to issue tax billings through the appropriate elected tax collector’s
                 office.
R-85-4  3/18/    Granting permission to the Troy Borough Municipal Authority to seek a matching
        1985     grant from the Department of Community Affairs to aid and assist Alparon Park.
R-85-6  5/21/    Approving the action of the Troy Industrial Development Authority to finance the
        1985     Paper Magic Group, Inc. project.
R-85-7A 7/29/    Resolving to pursue and copy the police working arrangement being used at
        1985     Smethport, PA, for economic reasons.
R-85-7B 11/19/   Authorizing the Borough Manager to sell property of the Borough which has a
        1985     value of less than $200.
                 Approving a loan in the amount of $332,000 by Equibank to Donald R. and Naomi L.
R-86-1  12/23/   Crisman and Communicable, Inc., and the pledge to the Bank of Troy Borough Cable
        1986     Television System of all shares of stock in Communicable, Inc., and the Troy
                 Borough Cable Television franchise as collateral for the same.
R-87-3  5/18/    Approving the Emergency Management Plan as developed by Tom Close.
        1987
R-92-2  10/19/   Authorizing the President of Council to sign a reimbursement agreement.
        1992
R-95-1  12/27/   Authorizing the joining of Troy Borough into the Western Bradford County Council
        1995     of Governments.
R-96-4  7/15/    Agreeing to join the Pennsylvania State Association of Borough’s Pension Plan
        1996     for their non-uniform employees.
        7/15/    Authorizing the Borough Manager to execute on behalf of the Borough of Troy all
R-96-5  1996     required forms and documents for the purpose of obtaining financial assistance
                 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.
R-96-6  7/15/    Appointing the Borough Manager Trustee for the Troy Borough 457 Deferred
        1996     Compensation Plan with American Funds Service Co.
R-96-8  12/16/   Requesting permission to participate in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
        1996     Cooperative Purchasing Program.
R-98-1  1/21/    Resolving to advertise for a zoning hearing to amend zoning map.
        1998
R-98-2  2/18/    Resolving to advertise for a zoning hearing to amend zoning map.
        1998
R-98-3  2/18/    Resolving to allow the Troy Area Ambulance Association to implement a junior
        1998     program.
        12/16/   Resolving that the President of the Eastern Bradford County Council of
R-98-4  1998     Governments sign an agreement authorizing the contract between the Eastern and
                 Western Bradford Council of Governments and Memorial Hospital.
                 Supporting the Pennsylvania Environmental Council’s application to PA DCNR to
R-99-1  2/2/1999 develop a Rivers Conservation Plan for the North Branch of the Susquehanna River
                 Watershed.
R-99-3  8/18/    Resolving to advertise for a zoning hearing to amend zoning map.
        1999
R-99-4  9/15/    Appointing Debra J. Huislander Trustee for the Troy Borough 457 Deferred
        1999     Compensation Plan with American Funds Service Co.
Res.    11/15/   Resolving that it shall accept donations of real estate from Paxar pursuant to
01-1    2001     the Agreement prepared by the Borough Solicitor.
Res.    3/20/    Resolving that Daniel J. Close shall be and is hereby appointed Trustee for the
02-1    2002     Troy Borough 457 Deferred Compensation Plan with American Funds Service Co.
                 Signifying the intention and desire of the Council of this Borough, to amend the
Res.             articles of incorporation of an industrial development authority under
02-2    3/–/200provisions of Economic Development Financing Law of 1993, as amended, at 73 P.S.
                 §§ 371 et seq.; adopting a new name for the said Industrial Development
                 Authority.
Res.    7/7/2002 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
02-4             Community and Economic Development (DCED).
Res.    2/19/    Mandating that all municipalities prepare, maintain and keep current an
03-1    2003     emergency operations plan for the prevention and minimization of injury and
                 damage caused by a major emergency, or disaster within the municipality.
Res.    –/–/2Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
03-02            Community and Economic Development (DCED), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Res.    –/–/2Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
03-03            and Economic Development (DCED), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
                 Administering and enforcing the provisions of the Pennsylvania Construction Code
Res.    6/15/    Act, Act 45 of 1999, as amended from time to time, and its regulations, through
04-01   2004     an intermunicipal agreement with the Eastern and Western Bradford County
                 Councils of Government and their appointed, certified third party agency, Code
                 Inspections, Inc.
                 Recognizing that coordination of services enables each municipality in the COG
Res.    6/28/    to minimize the costs of administration of a code enforcement program and that
04-02   2004     the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development encouraged
                 municipalities to enter into such agreements for sharing of code enforcement
                 services.
Res.    9/2/2004 Authorizing a River Conservation Plan.
04-04
                 Resolving that the Borough Manager is authorized and directed to file with the
Res.    9/2/2004 Secretary of the Commonwealth for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania the Municipal
04-05            Statement of Revival, for the purpose of reviving the Troy Borough Municipal
                 Authority.
Res.             Resolving that no person or party may place a sign or banner across SR 6 or SR
04-06   9/2/2004 14 in the Borough of Troy unless the placement of the same has been approved by
                 the Troy Borough Manager and by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
                 Authorizing the submission of the attached request for the Pennsylvania
                 Department of Transportation to provide a fixed 48.9 percent reimbursement of
Res.    8/20/    the Borough of Troy for all costed incurred in relocating our water main
04-07   2003     facilities affected by the Canton Street Bridge Relocation project necessitated
                 by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Highway Improvement in Bradford
                 County.
Res.    10/11/   Desiring to undertake the Troy pool electrical and bath house renovation. The
04-08   2004     applicant desires to apply to the Department of Conservation and Natural
                 Resources for a grant for the purpose of carrying out this project.
Res.    11/14/   Resolving that the Chamber of Commerce may place lights across SR 6 at Segment
04-09   2004     150 Offset 36 and SR 14 at segment 360 Offset 315 in the Borough of Troy for the
                 purpose of Christmas decorations.
Res.    12/15/   Obtaining banner permits for the erection of banners across state Highways
04-10   2004     located within the Borough.
Res.    1/19/    Authorizing and directing to sign the Reimbursement Agreement and the Borough
05-01   2005     Secretary be authorized and directed to attest and seal the same.
                 Resolving that the Borough Manager, now Daniel J. Close, is hereby authorized to
Res.    1/19/    sell, assign and endorse for transfer, certificates representing stocks, bonds
05-02   2005     or other securities now registered or hereafter in the name of this Borough of
                 Troy.
Res.    12/15/   Obtaining banner permits for the erection of banners across state highways
05-03   2004     located within the Borough.
Res.    1/19/    Resolving by authority that the Council President of said partner be authorized
05-04   2005     and directed to sign the agreement or amendment on its behalf.
Res.    4/13/    Approving and adopting by the Troy Borough, Bradford County, Pennsylvania, on
05-05   2005     the date hereinafter set forth.
Res.    5/18/    Resolving that much of the timber growing on the 9 acres, more or less, owned by
05-06   2005     the Borough and situated in Troy Township and commonly referred to as the
                 Borough Reservoir lands mature and ripe for harvest.
Res.    7/20/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
05-07   2005     Community and Economic Development (DCED), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
                 Resolving that Borough of Troy desires to sell its 1997 Ford Crown Victoria
Res.             Police Cruiser. The sale to be made directly to Western Alliance Emergency
05-08   8/–/200Services, Inc., a volunteer ambulance service located within the Borough of
                 Troy. The sale shall comply with Article XII, § 1201 of the Borough Code as
                 established by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
                 Creating a joint Planning Commission with Troy Township known as the Troy
Res.    9/21/    Community Planning Commission and has charged that Planning Commission with the
05-09   2005     duty to create a Joint Community Comprehensive Plan for Troy Borough and Troy
                 Township, Bradford County, Pennslyvania.
Res.    11/16/   Accepting the resignation of Borough Councilman Gary Cummings and that William
05-10   2005     McBratney, Jr. shall be and is hereby appointed to the position of Borough
                 Councilman to serve the remaining term of Councilman Cummings.
Res.    11/16/   Accepting the resignation of Borough Councilman Shawn Bruce and that Kenneth
05-11   2005     Krise shall be and is hereby appointed to the position of Borough Councilman to
                 serve the remaining term of Councilman Bruce.
Res.    12/21/   Resolving that the Borough Manager, now Daniel J. Close, and Borough Secretary,
05-12   2005     now Debra J. Hulslander, are hereby authorized to sign all documents necessary
                 to administrate the Borough or Troy Police Pension Plan for the Borough of Troy.
                 The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania administers the Enterprise Zone Program through
Res.    12/21/   the Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) with the purpose
05-15   2005     being to provide state grants to assist financially disadvantaged communities in
                 preparing and implementing business development strategies within a multi-
                 municipal Enterprise Zone through the New Communities Program.
Res.    2/15/    The Internet Revenue Code “Title 26 U.S.C. 125” allows employees to redirect a
06-01   2006     portion of their salaries to pay for certain allowed expenses on a pre-tax
                 basis.
                 Resolving that the Borough Manager, Daniel J. Close, is hereby authorized to
Res.    5/1/2006 sign all documents necessary to administrate the Reimbursement Agreement between
06-02            Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Transportation and Borough of Troy
                 for the Transportation Enhancements Program.
Res.    8/16/    Accepting the resignation of Borough Councilman Jeffery Bower and that Craig
06-04   2006     Havens shall be and is hereby appointed to the position of Borough Councilman to
                 serve the remaining term of Councilman Bower.
Res.    7/19/    Resolving that the Borough of Troy desires to sell its 2001 Ford Crown Victoria
06-05   2006     police cruiser. The sale shall comply with Article XII, § 1201 of the Borough
                 Code as established by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Res.    9/27/    Desiring to apply to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
06-06   2006     (“Department”) for a grant for the purposes of carrying out his project.
Res.    10/18/   Operating and intermunicipally, cooperative project to purchase a high pressure
06-08   2006     water jetting unit.
Res.    12/13/   Operating an intermunicipally, cooperative project to purchase a high pressure
06-10   2006     water jetting unit.
Res.    –/–/2Desiring to join with the Canton Borough Sewer Authority and Troy Township, for
07-01            the purchase and use of a high pressure water jetting unit.
Res.    2/21/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
07-02   2007     Community and Economic Development (DCED), Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Res.    7/18/    Implementing the National Incident Management System.
07-04   2007
Res.             Recognizing the threat that natural hazards pose to people and property withing
08-01   7/9/2008 our county; and undertaking hazard mitigation action will reduce the potential
                 for harm to people and property from future hazard occurrences.
Res.    7/9/2008 Obtaining banner permits for the erection of banners across state highways
08-02            located within the Borough.
Res.    10/8/    Desiring to join with Troy Borough and Sylvania Borough in the preparation of a
08-03   2008     joint Emergency Operations Plan.
                 Resolving that the Borough Manager, now Daniel J. Close, and Borough
Res.    11/12/   Administrative Assistant, now Tina M. Woodward, are hereby authorized to sign
08-04   2008     all documents necessary to administer the Borough of Troy Police Pension Plan
                 for the Borough of Troy.
                 Resolving that the Borough Manager, now Daniel J. Close, and Borough
                 Administrative Assistant, now Tina M. Woodward, are hereby authorized to sign
                 all documents necessary to administer the Borough of Troy Non-uniform Pension
Res.    3/18/    Plan for the Borough of Troy. I, Jerry L. May, President of Troy Borough
09-01   2009     Council, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of a resolution duly
                 adopted by the Troy Borough Council of said Troy Borough at a meeting held the
                 4th Day of November, 2008, at which a quorum was present and voting and that the
                 same has not been repealed or amended and remains in full force and effect and
                 does not conflict with the Borough of Troy Non-uniform Pension Plan.
                 Authorizing the adoption of a Premium Only Plan. Whereas, the Municipality makes
                 group medical insurance benefits available for its employees and pays a portion
Res.    8/19/    of the premium required for coverage; and whereas, the Municipality desires to
09-02   2009     allow its employees to pay their portion of the premium contribution with pre-
                 tax dollars; and whereas, the Municipality desires to establish a salary
                 reduction plan for its employees (the “Plan”) that complies with § 125 of the
                 Internal Revenue Code.
                 Recognizing the fire company organization known as “Oscoluwa and Engine & Hose
Res.    5/20/    Company, Inc.” and issuing, from time to time, obligations to finance projects
09-03   2009     and intending that such obligations be qualified for exemption from federal
                 income taxation under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                 amended (the “Code”).
                 Desiring to comply with Act 32 of 2008 enacted by the General Assembly of the
                 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and; whereas: Act 32 requires a county-wide
                 committee be established to develop bylaws and guidelines on how it wants to
Res.    5/20/    collect the local earned income tax and will select an appropriate tax
09-04   2009     collection officer through an RFP process (request for proposal), and; whereas:
                 Act 32 requires the governing bodies of school districts, townships, boroughs
                 and cities appoint one voting delegate and one or more alternate delegates to be
                 their new Tax Collection Committee (TCC) representative, and whereas the
                 Bradford County Commissioners have requested the names of the delegate.
                 The Troy Borough, Bradford County, Pennsylvania is most vulnerable to natural
                 and human-made hazards which may result in loss of life and property, economic
                 hardship, and threats to public health and safety, and whereas, § 322 of the
                 Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 (DMA 2000) requires state and local governments
                 to develop and submit for approval to the President a mitigation plan that
Res.    2/17/    outlines processes for identifying their respective natural hazards, risks, and
10-01   2010     vulnerabilities, and whereas, the Troy Borough acknowledges the requirements of
                 § 322 of DMA 2000 to have an approved Hazard Mitigation Plan as a prerequisite
                 to receiving post-disaster Hazard Mitigation Grant Program funds, and whereas,
                 the Bradford County 2009 Hazard Mitigation Plan has been developed by the
                 Bradford County Department of Planning and the Bradford County Department of
                 Emergency Management in cooperation with other county departments, officials and
                 citizens of Troy Borough.
                 Allowing for a timely response to local crime, safety, fire and codes
                 enforcement issues; and whereas, eliminating local governments will lead to
                 larger, more corrupt government to preside over a larger constituency of
                 citizens; and whereas, several county governments in the Commonwealth are
                 already under investigation for corruption; and whereas, these two bills will
Res.    7/21/    bail out the large cities that have improperly spent their funds over the last
10-02   2010     several decades while punishing the smaller communities that have spent frugally
                 and have strived to make intelligent fiscal decisions while spreading limited
                 resources in a manner that would most benefit the community; and whereas, the
                 borough supports the voluntary merger or consolidation of local governments if
                 the process is initiated at the local level and it has the support of the
                 majority of the residents of all affected municipalities; and whereas, the
                 Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs opposes HB 2431 and SB 1357.
                 Accepting the resignation of Borough Council member Craig Havens and that
Res.    11/16/   Veronica Seymour a duly authorized elector of the Borough of Troy shall be and
10-04   2010     is hereby appointed to the position of Borough Council to serve the remaining
                 term of Craig Havens.
                 Amending the Troy Borough non-uniformed employee pension plan to extend the time
Ord.    7/17/    during which an employee who’s service has ended may return to the service of
02-03   2002     the Borough without forfeiture of certain non-vested portions of the employee’s
                 pension plan
Ord.    12/17/   Providing changes mandated by Act 30 of 2002, which amended the Act of May 29,
03-04   2003     1956, P.L. 1804 (Act 600).
Ord.    10/15/   Amending Ord. 96-4 in order to comply with Revenue Ruling 2002-27, the Economic
03-02   2003     Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001.
                 Establishing and continuing a Police Pension Plan pursuant to Act 600 of 1956,
                 53 P.S. §§ 761 et seq., and providing for administration, eligibility for
Ord.    7/21/    benefits, source and allocation funds, calculation of retirement benefits,
04-03   2004     return of participant contributions, vesting terms of retirement benefits,
                 disability retirement, death benefit and other matters associated with the
                 establishment and continuation of the Police Pension Plan.
                 Joining with other political subdivisions as a member of the Northeast
Ord.    12/11/   Pennsylvania Municipal Insurance Cooperative (Nepmic) and the Pennsylvania
07-01   2007     Municipal Insurance Cooperative (PMHIC), to enter into intergovernmental
                 agreements for the purpose of joining and participating as a member of the
                 Nepmic and PMHIC.
                 Desiring to enter into an intergovernmental cooperation agreement to adopt a
                 joint Emergency Operations Plan as their municipal operations plan; and whereas,
                 said municipalities, for the purpose of carrying the provisions of the
Ord.    12/19/   Intergovernmental Cooperation Act into effect, deem it appropriate to enter into
07-02   2007     such an agreement; and Whereas, said municipalities have determined that the
                 residents of each municipality will be best served by adopting the joint
                 Emergency Operations Plan as their own plan rather than having numerous,
                 separate emergency operations plans in each of their respective municipalities.
Ord.    2/18/    Amending the Code of Ordinances, Chapter 96, Article 4, entitled Borough of Troy
08-02   2009     Nonuniformed Employees Pension Plan in order to comply with federal laws and
                 regulations in effect as of January 1, 2008.
                 Amending the Code of Ordinance, Chapter 89, Article 2, entitled Borough of Troy
Ord.    2/10/    Police Pension Plan in order to comply with the Pension Funding Equity Act of
08-03   2009     2004, Pension Protection Act of 2006, and the final regulations issued under
                 internal revenue code section 415 effective as provided in the amendment.
Ord.    12/16/   Amending the Code of Ordinances entitled Borough of Troy Police Pension Plan in
09-01   2009     order to comply with Act 600 of 1956, as amended by Act 51 of 2009, the
                 Emergency and Law Enforcement Personnel Death Benefits Act.
                 Amending the Code of Ordinances, entitled Borough of Troy Nonuniformed Employees
Ord.    9/20/    Pension Plan in order to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the
11-01   2011     Workers Retirees and Employers Relief Act of 2008 (WRERA) and the Heroes
                 Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008  (HEART) effective as provided in
                 the amendment.
                 Amending the Code of Ordinances entitled Borough of Troy Police Pension Plan in
Ord.    9/20/    order to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and the Heroes Earnings
11-02   2011     Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008 (HEART) effective as provided in the
                 amendment.
Ord.    5/20/    Amending the Code of Ordinances, entitled Borough of Troy Nonuniformed Employees
14-02   2014     Pension Plan in order to comply with state laws and regulations effective May
                 20, 2014.
Ord.    5/20/    Amending the Code of Ordinances, entitled Borough of Troy Police Pension Plan in
14-03   2014     order to comply with state laws and regulations effective May 20, 2014.
Res.    9/28/    Adopting amendments to the 1974 bylaws of the Western Bradford County Council of
16-03   2016     Governments.
Res.             Supporting maintenance of all current policies and procedures related to EIT
18-07   -/-/2018 collections/distributions; opposing any legislative initiatives to consolidate
                 EIT services at the state level.
Ord.    8/30/    Authorizing the Board of School Directors of the Troy Area School District to
18-02   2018     assume the hiring and oversight of school crossing guards.
        
 
Appendix E
Plan Approval
 
Ord./Res Date       Subject
                    Approving the sewage planning modules submitted by Warrior
                    Run Development Corporation and resolving that Council sees
R-92-1A  2/17/1992  no obvious violation of Borough ordinances concerning the
                    construction of a senior citizens and disabled persons
                    housing complex to be constructed on East Main Street.
                    Approving the sewage planning modules submitted by Warrior
                    Run Development Corporation and resolving that Council sees
R-92-1B  11/16/1992 no obvious violation of Borough ordinances concerning the
                    construction of a senior citizens and disabled persons
                    housing complex to be constructed on East Main Street.
                    Adopting and submitting to the Pennsylvania Department of
R-96-3   6/17/1996  Environmental Protection for its approval as a revision to
                    the Official Sewage Facilities Plan of the Fullbrook Road
                    Sewer Extension for sewer tap-ins, sewer extension.
                   
 
Appendix F
Public Property
Ord./Res Date Subject
Ord./ Date Subject
Res
R-79- 12/  Authorizing the President of Council and Borough Secretary to sign the
7     9/   deed and any other papers pertaining the sale of certain real property
      1979 within the Borough.
      2/   Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Secretary to sign
R-80- 18/  the deeds, agreements and other papers pertaining to transactions
2     1980 where the Borough may acquire, without monetary cost, rights-of-way or
           parcels of real property during the year 1980.
      7/   Authorizing the President of Council and Borough Secretary to sign the
R-80- 21/  deeds and any other papers pertaining to the sale of 119 acres of real
10    1980 property belonging to the Borough, shown as seven lots on George K.
           Jones and Associates survey map 10234.
      7/   Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Secretary to sign
R-80- 21/  the deeds, agreements and any other papers pertaining to the division
14    1980 into separate lots, the remaining property of the Borough shown on
           George K. Jones and Associates survey map 10234.
R-81- 9/   Approving the sale of real property owned by the Borough and located
7     21/  adjacent to the property of Robert R. Kendall at 1 Courtney Drive.
      1981
           Seeking redevelopment of parcel number: 52-068.03-128-000-000, a
Res.  5/   property formally occupied by Penn-Troy Manufacturing and other
06-03 14/  previous users, located in the Borough of Troy. The property is
      2006 located on Willow Street and is included in the Borough’s Industrial
           Zone.
          
 
Appendix G
Sewers
Ord./Res Date Subject
Ord./ Date     Subject
Res
Ord.  7/27/    Authorizing the Burgess and Borough Secretary to enter into a contract with
7/27/ 1914     George G. Beardsley to construct a sewage disposal plant.
1914
R-80- 3/17/    Authorizing the filing of an application for a federal grant for the
3     1980     construction of a sewage treatment plant.
R-85- –/–/1Approving the sewer system evaluation survey final report, March 1984, in
5              its entirety.
R-84-          Adopting a 201 Facility Plan for the Borough which recommends utilizing the
6     –/–/1existing Halmur Process with rotating contractors as an amendment to the
               official Act 537 plan.
R-84- –/–/1Authorizing the filing of an application for a federal grant for the
7A             construction of a sewage treatment works.
R-84- –/–/1Authorizing the filing of an application for a federal grant for the
7B             construction of a sewage treatment works.
R-87- 3/11/    Announcing the Borough’s intent to award a contract to the General Crushed
2     1987     Stone Company for the rehabilitation of the wastewater collection system.
               Awarding contracts to Crushed Stone Company, Schoonover Plumbing and
Ord.  4/20/    Heating, Inc. and G. R. Noto and Son, Inc., for the rehabilitation of the
87-5  1987     sewage collection system and upgrading the existing sanitary sewage
               treatment plant.
R-94- 12/19/   Resolving that the Troy Municipal Authority shall be the agent for the
20    1994     provision of sewerage services to those improved properties within Troy
               Township that are connected to the Troy Borough community sewerage system.
R-00- 2/16/    Resolving to assign to the Troy Borough Sewer and Water Authority a portion
1     2000     of the total daily sewage treatment capacity at its sewage treatment plant.
R-18- 2/15/    Requesting a PA Small Water and Sewer Program Grant to be used for the Waste
04    2018     Water Treatment Plant Chlorine Neutralization Project.
      
 
Appendix H
Streets and Sidewalks
   This appendix contains an alphabetical listing of streets, and, under each
street, a listing of all ordained activities.
Name Activity Location Ord./Res. Date
Name     Activity     Location                                                        Ord./ Date
                                                                                      Res.
Canton                From station 25 24 + 69.5 to station 25 24 + 00.5, a distance   Ord.  10/
Street   Improvements of 40.55 feet.                                                  10/9/ 9/
                                                                                      1933A 1933
Canton                From its junction with Redington Avenue and Railroad Street and Ord.  6/1/
Street   Sidewalks    Fall Brook Road.                                                6/1/  1937
                                                                                      1937
Canton                From station 754 plus 06.66 to station 798 plus 00.78, a        Ord.  7/
Street   Improvements distance of 4,394.1 feet.                                       7/30/ 30/
                                                                                      1936  1936
Canton                From Station 754 - 71.00 to station 798 - 96.00, a distance of  Ord.  6/
Street   Improvements 4,425 feet.                                                     4-    25/
                                                                                      1962  1962
Canton                East side of Canton Street, between Willow Street and Ronan’s Ord.  6/
Street   Sidewalks    Bridge.                                                         6/10/ 10/
                                                                                      1916  1916
Center                                                                                Ord.  6/1/
Street   Improvements Both sides of Center Street                                     6/1/  1938
                                                                                      1938
Center                According to the maps and plans prepared by Jesse S. Ritchey,   Ord.  9/
Street   Improvements Engineer.                                                       9/27/ 27/
                                                                                      1937  1937
Courtney                                                                              Ord.  9/
Drive    Ordained     An additional of 600 feet.                                      10-   28/
                                                                                      1970  1970
Courtney                                                                              Ord.  5/
Drive    Ordained     From Newland Drive to dead-end, a distance of 149 feet.         1-    27/
                                                                                      1968  1968
East                  South side of East Main Street, between Paine Street and Sarah  Ord.  6/
Main     Sidewalks    Belaughs west line.                                             6/27/ 27/
Street                                                                                1916  1916
Edgewood                                                                              Ord.  7/
Drive    Ordained     A total of 226 feet.                                            1-    30/
                                                                                      1975  1975
Elmira                From station 822 - 03 to station 824 - 51.5, a distance of      Ord.  8/
Street   Improvements 244.86 feet.                                                    8/26/ 26/
                                                                                      1940  1940
Elmira                                                                                Ord.  6/
Street   Improvements From station 319 + 04 to station 333 + 32.                      2-    25/
                                                                                      1956  1956
Elmira                From Main Street to the bridge near the property of Harold      Ord.  6/
Street   Sidewalks    French.                                                         6/26/ 26/
                                                                                      1935  1935
Elmira                From station 798 + 61 to station 828 + 24, a distance of 2,963  Ord.  12/
Street   Improvements feet.                                                           12/3/ 3/
                                                                                      1934  1934
Eureka                From the intersection of Canton and Fallbrook Streets east 581  Ord.  7/
Drive    Ordained     feet, to its termination.                                       5-    16/
                                                                                      1962  1962
High                  According to the maps and plans prepared by Jesse S. Ritchey,   Ord.  9/
Street   Improvements Engineer.                                                       9/27/ 27/
                                                                                      1937  1937
High                  From its intersection with Center Street to its intersection    Ord.  6/1/
Street   Improvements with King Street.                                               6/1/  1938
                                                                                      1938
John                  According to the maps or plan prepared by Jesse S. Ritchie,     Ord.  5/9/
Street   Improvements Engineer.                                                       5/9/  1941
                                                                                      1941
Label                 From prospect Street to the Borough line, a distance of 257     Ord.  5/
Lane     Accepted     feet.                                                           1-    27/
                                                                                      1968  1968
Morgan                                                                                Ord.  5/
Circle   Ordained     From Newland Drive to dead-end, a distance of 198 feet.         1-    27/
                                                                                      1968  1968
Newland               From Redington Avenue to the Borough line, a distance of 1,160  Ord.  5/
Drive    Ordained     feet.                                                           1-    27/
                                                                                      1968  1968
                                                                                      Ord.  11/
Peck     Opening      From the north side of Elmira Street to lands of the Troy       11/   24/
Place                 School Association.                                             24/   1930
                                                                                      1930
Rockwell                                                                              Ord.  9/
Drive    Ordained     An additional 200 feet.                                         10-   28/
                                                                                      1970  1970
Rockwell                                                                              Ord.  5/
Drive    Ordained     From Newland Drive to the Borough line, a distance of 443 feet. 1-    27/
                                                                                      1968  1968
Taylor                                                                                Ord.  5/
Street   Open         From Elmira Street to lands of the Troy Area School District.   94-2  16/
                                                                                            1994
Unnamed                                                                               Ord.  7/
Circle   Ordained     One hundred feet in diameter with a 50 foot right-of-way.       1-    30/
                                                                                      1975  1975
Valley                                                                                Ord.  7/
View     Ordained     A total of 436.35 feet.                                         1-    30/
Street                                                                                1975  1975
Woodland                                                                              Ord.  9/
Drive    Ordained     A total of 754 feet                                             10-   28/
                                                                                      1970  1970
 
Appendix I
Water
 
Ord./Res    Date      Subject
                      Agreeing to use the $50,000 contribution of Daniel
R-1/29/1923 1/29/1923 Pomeroy to complete the work on the N. M. Pomeroy
                      Memorial Reservoir.
Res. 18-03  2/15/2018 Requesting a PA Small Water and Sewer Program grant to be
                      used for the US Route 6 Water Main Extension project.
            
 
Appendix J
Zoning; Prior Ordinances
[Reserved]
Fee Schedule
Subject Fees
Subject                                                                                Fees
Assessment Permit
   Detached garage less than 500 ft.                                                $50
   Pole barn or other agricultural                                                  $50 plus $0.10/sq. ft. over 500 sq. ft.
   All other structures (gazebos, storage buildings, sheds)                         $50 plus $0.10/sq. ft. over 500 sq. ft.
Bad Check Fee                                                                          $47.50 plus costs incurred by Borough for collection
Building Permits
   Estimated cost of proposed construction
      $0—$1,000                                                                $5
   Add’l $1,000 or part thereof over $1,000                                       $1
Garage and Yard Sales
   Initial permit within a 12-month period                                          $25 for each
Licenses
   Cable television franchise
      Application                                                                $300
   Junkyards
      Per year                                                                   $200
      Transfer of License                                                        $25
   Transient retail license
      Per month                                                                  $25
      Per week                                                                   $15
      Per day                                                                    $3
Permit Fees
   Detached garage less than 500 ft.                                                $50
   Mobile home and/or manufactured home                                             $50
   Open deck with floors less than 30 in. in above grade                            $50
   Pole barn or other agricultural                                                  $50 plus $0.10/sq. ft. over 500 sq. ft.
   All other structures (gazebos, storage buildings, sheds)                         $50 plus $0.10/sq. ft. over 500 sq. ft.
Real Estate Tax Fee
   Compensation for providing tax certification service                             $5
Real Estate Tax Certification Fee
   Service fee                                                                      $5
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
   Sewer Rates
      1.   Minimum charge per quarter for sanitary sewer service available    $13.49/qtr.
      2.   Charge per month for each 1,000 gallons of water used              $9.77/1,000 gal.
      3.   Charge for new/additional sewer service connections per EDU        $1,000
      4.   Charge for service terminations                                    $25
      5.   Charge for re-establishing service after termination               $25
      6.   Deposit for new accounts                                           $0
      7.   Charge per/qtr., per/person for sewer only accounts                $39.28
      8.   Rate for township sanitary sewer per 1,000 gallons                 $6.06/1,000 gal.
                                                                                       $500 plus $250 per apartment or commercial occupant in the case of a
   Tapping fee single-family residence or a single occupant commercial property     multifamily residence or multi-occupant commercial occupant; plus cost of all
                                                                                       materials used or consumed by the Borough in association with the connection
Streets and Sidewalks
   Street openings                                                                  $5 per lineal foot, 2 ft. wide
Subdivision and Land Development
   Application submission feasibility review                                        $75
   Final plan submission                                                            $150 minimum plus add’l legal and engineering fees in excess of the minimum
                                                                                       fee
   Preliminary plan submission                                                      $150 minimum plus add’l legal and engineering fees in excess of the minimum
                                                                                       fee
Water
   Fire protection                                                                  $200/year
   Turn-on/turn-off charge                                                          $5
   Water rates
      1.   Minimum charge per quarter for water service available             $11.52/QTR
      2.   Charge per quarter for each 1,000 gallons of water used            $8.69/1,000 GAL
      3.   Charge per year for standby water for fire sprinkler system/buildin$238
      4.   Charge for new/additional water service connections                $500
      5.   Charge for water service terminations                              $25
      6.   Charge for re-establishing water service after termination         $25
      7.   Charge for water meter damage                                      $250
      8.   Deposit for new water accounts                                     $0
      9.   Charge for bulk water sales                                        $16/1,000 gal
      10.   Charge per month per meter to maintain a sinking fund exclusively $11.69/mon
payment of guaranteed sewer revenue note of 2003 (Pennvest)
Zoning
   Application for appeal/special exceptions/variance                               $5
 
Table of Disposition of All Ordinances
Ordinance Date Disposition Subject
Ordinance       Date        Disposition                 Subject
2/18/1868       2/18/1868   Repealed by 80-2            Construction and Repair
                                                        of Sidewalks
9/19/1871       9/19/1871   Repealed by 80-2            Conduct
5/26/1890       5/26/1890   Repealed by 80-2            Conduct
12/19/1893      12/19/1893  Repealed by 80-2            Health and Safety
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
1/29/1894       1/29/1894   Repealed by 80-2            General Business
                                                        Regulations
7/11/1895       7/11/1895   Repealed by 80-2            American Telegraph and
                                                        Telephone Franchise
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
3/29/1897       3/29/1897   Repealed by 80-2            General Business
                                                        Regulations
                                                        Farmers Mutual
4/22/1901A      4/22/1901   Repealed by 80-2            Telephone Company
                                                        Franchise
4/22/1901B      4/22/1901   Repealed by 80-2            Streets and Sidewalks
2/23/1905       2/23/1905   Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
3/24/1913       3/24/1913   Repealed by 80-2            Streets and Sidewalks
                                                        Governmental and
11/24/1913      11/24/1913  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
7/27/1914       7/27/1914   Appendix G                  Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
6/10/1916       6/10/1916   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/10/1916       6/10/1916   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/27/1916       6/27/1916   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/27/1916       6/27/1916   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
1/29/1917       1/29/1917   Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
7/30/1923       7/30/1923   Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
5/2/1927A       5/2/1927    Repealed by 80-2            Water
5/2/1927B       5/2/1927    Repealed by 80-2            Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
4/30/1928       4/30/1928   Repealed by 80-2            General Business
                                                        Regulations
5/3/1929        5/3/1929    Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
6/24/1929       6/24/1929   Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
6/30/1930       6/30/1930   Repealed by 80-2            Interstate Public
                                                        Service Co. Franchise
11/24/1930      11/24/1930  Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
11/24/1930      11/24/1930  Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
3/2/1931        3/2/1931    Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
12/30/1931      12/30/1931  Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
11/2/1932       11/2/1932   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
11/2/1932       11/2/1932   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
10/9/1933B      10/9/1933   Expired                     Streets and Sidewalks
10/9/1933A      10/9/1933   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
10/9/1933A      10/9/1933   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
12/3/1934       12/3/1934   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
12/3/1934       12/3/1934   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/26/1935       6/26/1935   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/26/1935       6/26/1935   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
7/30/1936       7/30/1936   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
7/30/1936       7/30/1936   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
8/31/1936       8/31/1936   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
8/31/1936       8/31/1936   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
12/26/1936      12/26/1936  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
12/26/1936      12/26/1936  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
6/1/1937        6/1/1937    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/1/1937        6/1/1937    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
9/27/1937       9/27/1937   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
9/27/1937       9/27/1937   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
9/27/1937       9/27/1937   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
1/31/1938       1/31/1938   Tax Rate 1938                
6/1/1938        6/1/1938    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/1/1938        6/1/1938    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6/1/1938        6/1/1938    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
1/12/1939       1/12/1939   Tax Rate 1939                
5/29/1939       5/29/1939   Repealed by 80-2            Solid Waste
2/5/1940        2/5/1940    Tax Rate 1940                
8/26/1940       8/26/1940   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
8/26/1940       8/26/1940   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
2/3/1941        2/3/1941    Tax Rate 1941                
3/31/1941       3/31/1941   Repealed by 80-2            Solicitation License
5/9/1941        5/9/1941    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
5/9/1941        5/9/1941    Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
2/2/1942        2/2/1942    Tax Rate 1942                
1/25/1943       1/25/1943   Tax Rate 1943                
1/31/1944       1/31/1944   Tax Rate 1944                
4/26/1948       4/26/1948   Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
2/14/1949       2/14/1949   Tax Rate 1949                
1/30/1950       1/30/1950   Tax Rate 1950                
1/29/1951       1/29/1951   Tax Rate 1951                
1-1952          –/–/1952Tax Rate 1952                
2-1952          –/–/1952Repealed by 80-2            Per Capita Tax
3-1952          –/–/1952Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4-1952          5/19/1952   §§ 1-1001—1-1006        Administration and
                                                        Government
5-1952          –/–/1952Repealed by 80-2            On-Street Metered
                                                        Parking
6-1952          –/–/1952Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
1-1953          –/–/1953Tax Rate 1953                
1-1954          –/–/1954Repealed by 8-1970          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
2-1954          –/–/1954Tax Rate 1954                
1-1955          –/–/1955Tax Rate 1955                
1-1956          –/–/1956Tax Rate 1956                
2-1956          6/25/1956   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
1-1957          –/–/1957Tax Rate 1957                
2-1957          –/–/1957Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4/29/1957       4/29/1957   §§ 27-101—              Zoning
                            27-1114, Part 12
1-1958          –/–/1958Tax Rate 1958                
1-1959          –/–/1959Tax Rate 1959                
1-1960          –/–/1960Tax Rate 1960                
1/25/1960       1/25/1960   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
2-1960          1/26/1960   § 1-1201                   Administration and
                                                        Government
3-1960          –/–/1960Repealed by 80-2            Buildings
                                                         
4-1960                                                 Sewers and Sewage
§§ 1, 2       –/–/1960Superseded by 87-3          Disposal
§§ 3-5                    Superseded by 87-4          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
5-1960          10/24/1960  Appendix A                  Annexation of Territory
1-1961          –/–/1961Tax Rate 1961                
2-1961          –/–/1961Repealed by 80-2            Water
                                                        Governmental and
3-1961          6/26/1961   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
1-1962          –/–/1962Tax Rate 1962                
2-1962          –/–/1962Repealed by 80-2            Taxation
3-1962          4/30/1962   Appendix A                  Annexation of Territory
4-1962          6/25/1962   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
5-1962          7/16/1962   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
6-1962          12/12/1962  §§ 20-101                 Solid Waste
                            —20-106
1-1963          –/–/1963Repealed by 80-2            Water
2-1963          –/–/1963Tax Rate 1963                
3-1963          –/–/1963Repealed by 4-1967          Water Rates; Water
                                                        Connections
4-1963          –/–/1963Repealed by 77-8            Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
1-1964          1/27/1964   Appendix A                  Annexation of Territory
2-1964          2/11/1964   § 1-1101                   Independent Auditor
3-1964          2/11/1964   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
4-1964          –/–/1964Tax Rate 1964                
5-1964          –/–/1964Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
6-1964          –/–/1964Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
                            §§ 1-1001                 Administration and
                            —1-1006, 1-1201,          Government
                            §§ 20-101                  
7-1964          12/7/1964   —20-106 ,                 Solid Waste
                            §§ 27-101                 Zoning
                            —27-1114,                 Governmental and
                            Part 12, Appendix D         Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
1-1965          –/–/1965Tax Rate 1965                
2-1965          5/24/1965   Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
3-1965          6/28/1965   §§ 21-401—              Streets and Sidewalks
                            21-407
4-1965          –/–/1965Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
1-1966          –/–/1966Tax Rate 1966                
2-1966          –/–/1966Superseded by 87-4          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
3-1966          –/–/1967Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
1-1967          –/–/1967Tax Rate 1967                
2-1967          –/–/1967Tax Rate 1968                
3-1967          –/–/1967Superseded by 87-3          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
4-1967          –/–/1967Repealed by 5-1974          Water
1-1968          5/27/1968   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
2-1968          –/–/1968Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
3-1968          –/–/1968Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4-1968          –/–/1968Repealed by 80-2            Conduct
5-1968          –/–/1968Tax Rate 1969                
1-1969          –/–/1969Repealed by 4-1971          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
2-1969          –/–/1969Tax Rate 1970                
1-1970          –/–/1970Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
2-1970          2/23/1970   §§ 21-301—              Health and Safety
                            21-303
3-1970          –/–/1970Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4-1970          2/23/1970   §§ 4-101—4-105          Buildings
5-1970          –/–/1970Superseded by 89-2          Administration and
                                                        Government
6-1970          –/–/1970Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
7-1970          2/23/1970   §§ 4-201—4-202          Buildings
8-1970          –/–/1970Repealed by 77-8            Water and Sewer
                                                        Connections
9-1970          –/–/1970Repealed by 79-15           Water and Sewer Bills
10-1970         9/28/1970   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
11-1970         –/–/1970Repealed by 80-4            Occupational Privilege
                                                        Tax
12-1970         12/28/1978  §§ 24-201—              Taxation, Special
                            24-205
13-1970         –/–/1970Tax Rate 1971                
1-1971          –/–/1971Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
2-1971          –/–/1971Superseded by 87-4          Holding Tanks
3-1971          –/–/1971Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4-1971          –/–/1971Repeals 1-1969               
5-1971          –/–/1971Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
1-1972          7/31/1972   §§ 25-101—              Trees
                            25-104
1-1974          –/–/1974Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
2-1974          –/–/1974Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
3-1974          –/–/1974Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
4-1974          10/9/1974   §§ 1-201—1-209          Administration and
                                                        Government
5-1974 § 3     7/10/1974   § 26-101                   Water
                            Repealed by 77-8
–/–/A       –/–/— Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
1-1975          7/30/1975   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
2-1975          –/–/1975Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
3-1975          –/–/1975Repealed by 79-15           Water Rates
5/14/1975       5/14/1975   Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
12/10/1975A     12/10/1975  § 24-201                   Taxation, Special
12/10/1975B     12/10/1975  Tax Rate 1976                
1-1976          –/–/1975Rescinded by 77-5           Real Estate and
                                                        Occupation Tax
77-1            –/–/1977Superseded by 02-2          Streets and Sidewalks
77-2            2/10/1977   § 24-501                   Taxation, Special
77-3            –/–/1977Repealed by 79-15           Water Rates
77-4            –/–/1977Repealed by 79-16           Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
77-5            –/–/1977Tax Rate 1977                
                            Rescinds 76-1
77-6            5/12/1977   §§ 1-801—1-806          Administration and
                                                        Government
77-7            5/12/1977   §§ 24-301—24-317        Taxation, Special
                                                        Sewers and Sewage
77-8            –/–/1978Repealed by A.O.            Disposal and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
77-9            5/12/1977   §§ 26-401—26-403        Water
77-10           5/12/1977   Superseded by A.O.          Administration and
                                                        Government
77-11           –/–/1977Repealer                     
77-12           7/14/1997   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
77-13           9/8/1977    Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
77-14           10/13/1977  Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
77-15           11/10/1977  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
77-16           –/–/1977Tax Rate 1978                
77-17           12/22/1977  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
77-15           11/10/1977  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
77-17           12/22/1977  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
78-1            3/19/1979   Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
78-2            4/17/1978   §§ 23-101—23-103        Swimming Pools
78-3            5/8/1978    §§ 11-101—11-105        Housing
78-4            5/15/1978   §§ 22-101—22-702        Subdivision and Land
                                                        Development
78-5            5/15/1978   § 27-411                   Zoning
78-6            –/–/1978Repealed by 80-2            Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
78-7            –/–/1978Tax Rate 1979                
79-1            3/19/1979   §§ 21-101—21-106        Streets and Sidewalks
79-2            3/19/1979   §§ 21-404—21-406        Streets and Sidewalks
79-3            3/19/1979   §§ 10-201—10-205        Health and Safety
79-4            3/19/1979   §§ 2-101—2-105          Animals
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
79-5            3/19/1979   §§ 13-101—13-109        General Business
                                                        Regulations
79-6            3/19/1979   §§ 10-101—10-104        Health and Safety
79-7            3/19/1979   §§ 7-101—7-105          Fire Prevention and
                                                        Fire Protection
79-8            3/19/1979   §§ 6-101—6-103          Conduct
79-9            5/12/1977   §§ 1-301—1-305          Administration and
                                                        Government
79-10           3/19/1979   §§ 6-401—6-404          Conduct
79-11           –/–/1979Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
79-12           –/–/1979Superseded by 89-2          Administration and
                                                        Government
79-13           –/–/1979Superseded by 89-2          Administration and
                                                        Government
79-14           –/–/1979Tax Rate1979                 
79-15           9/17/1979   § 26-101                   Water
79-16           –/–/1979Superseded by 87-3          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
79-17           10/15/1979  § 25-103                   Trees
79-18           11/19/1979  Superseded by 2004-1        Building Permits
79-19           11/19/1979  § 1-501                    Administration and
                                                        Government
79-20           11/19/1979  Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
79-21           11/19 /1979 §§ 1-801, 1-803—1-805   Administration and
                                                        Government
79-22           11/19/1979  §§ 24-401—24-403        Taxation, Special
79-23           –/–/1979Tax Rate 1979                
80-1            –/–/1980Superseded by 87-3          Sewer Rental
                                                        Animals
                                                        Fire Prevention and
80-2                        § 2-105                    Fire Protection
                           § 7-105                    Health and Safety
               7/21/1980   § 10-104                   Streets and Sidewalks
                          § 21-104                   Taxation, Special
                          §§ 24-103, 24-106, 24-601 Water
                          § 26-601                   Franchises and Services
                          Appendix C                  Use and Construction of
§§ 1-1001----            Superseded by A.O.          Code
1-1009                                                 
§§ 7-1001----            Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
7-1047                                                 Traffic
§§ 7-1061----             Superseded by A.O.           
7-3005                                                  Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
                                                         
80-3            9/15/1980   §§ 21—201-208           Streets and Sidewalks
                            § 1-804                    Administration and
80-4            11/18/1980  Repeals § 11-1970          Government
                            § 24-601                    
                                                        Taxation; Special
80-5            –/–/1980Tax Rate 1981                
81-1            –/–/1981Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
81-2            –/–/1981Superseded by 00-2          General Business
                                                        Regulations
81-3            7/20/1981   Superseded by 2004-1        Buildings
81-4                        Tax Rate 1982               Real Estate Tax
               12/21/1981  § 24-201                   Taxation, Special
§ 111A                     Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
81-4A           –/–/1981Tax Rate 1982                
81-5            12/21/1981  Superseded by 2004-1        Buildings
82-1            3/15/1982   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
                                                         
82-2                                                   Sewers and Sewage
§ 11-2001      6/21/1982   Repealed by A.O.            Disposal
§ 11-1002                  §§ 21-201—21-209        Streets and Sidewalks
                           Superseded by 87-4          Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
82-3            –/–/1982Tax Rate 1983                
83-1            –/–/1983Superseded by 89-2          Administration and
                                                        Government
83-2            –/–/1983Superseded by 96-1          Floodplains
83-3            –/–/1983Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
83-4            –/–/1983Tax Rate 1984                
84-1            2/20/1984   Appendix C                  Franchises and Services
84-2            –/–/1984Tax Rate 1985                
85-1            3/18/1985   §§ 6-201—205            Conduct
85-2            –/–/1985Tax Rate 1986                
86-1            –/–/1986Tax Rate 1987                
86-2            –/–/1986Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
87-1            3/11/1987   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
87-2            –/–/1987Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
87-3            4/20/1987   §§ 18-201—18-241        Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
87-4            4/20/1987   §§ 18-101—18-162        Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
87-5            4/20/1987   Appendix G                  Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
87-6            –/–/1987Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
87-7            –/–/1987Tax Rate 1988                
87-8            –/–/1987Superseded by 89-2          Administration and
                                                        Government
88-1            –/–/1988Tax Rate 1989                
89-1            –/–/1989Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
89-2            4/17/1989   §§ 1-401—1-415          Administration and
                                                        Government
89-3            –/–/1989Missing                      
89-4            –/–/1989Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
90-1            –/–/1990Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
90-2A           5/20/1990   § 27-701                   Zoning
90-2B           –/–/1990Tax Rate 1991                
91-1            –/–/1991Missing                      
91-2            –/–/1991Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
91-3            5/21/1991   § 27-701                   Zoning
91-4            –/–/1991Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
91-5            –/–/1991Superseded by A.O.          Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
91-6            7/21/1991   §§ 26-501—26-503        Water
91-7            –/–/1991Tax Rate 1992                
92-1            –/–/1992Missing                      
92-2            –/–/1992Superseded by 96-1          Floodplains
92-3            6/8/1992    § 18-132                   Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
92-4            9/21/1992   §§ 6-301—6-302          Conduct
3/15/1993       3/15/1993   §§ 1-901—1-906          Administration and
                                                        Government
12/20/1993      12/20/1993  § 18-123                   Sewers and Sewage
                                                        Disposal
–/–/1994    –/–/1994§ 26-201                   Water
94-1            –/–/1994Missing                      
94-2            5/16/1994   Appendix H                  Streets and Sidewalks
95-1            11/20/1995, § 4-102                    Buildings
95-2            –/–/1995Tax Rate 1996                
96-1            1/5/1996    Superseded by 14-01         Floodplains
96-2            5/20/1996   Repealed by A.O.  § 26-201Sewers and Sewage
§ 2                                                    Disposal Water
96-3            –/–/1996Tax Rate 1997                
96-4            12/16/1996  § 1-421                    Administration and
                                                        Government
97-1            2/14/1997   § 24-601                   Taxation, Special
97-2            –/–/1997Tax Rate 1998                
98-1            4/21/2998   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
                            § 27-402
98-2            5/12/1998   Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
98-3            6/19/1998   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
98-4            –/–/1998Tax Rate 1999                
99-1            10/20/1999  Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
00-1            –/–/2000Tax Rate 2000                
00-2            7/19/2000   §§ 10-301—10-309        Health and Safety
00-3            –/–/2000Missing                      
00-4            12/29/2000  § 21-421                   Administration and
                                                        Government
01-1            –/–/2001Tax Rate 2001                
01-2            6/11/2001   § 27-402                   Zoning
01-3            11/14/2001  § 1-421                    Administration and
                                                        Government
02-02           4/–/2002  §§ 21-501—21-504        Streets and Sidewalks
                                                        Governmental and
02-03           7/17/2002   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
02-05           12/18/2002  Appendix B                  Bond Issues and Loans
02-06           –/–/2002Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
03-1            2/19/2003   Tax Rate 2003                
                                                        Governmental and
03-02           10/15/2003  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
03-3            1/5/2004    Tax Rate 2004                
                                                        Governmental and
03-04           12/17/2003  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
04-01           6/15/2004   §§ 5-101—5-108          Code Enforcement
04-02           6/15/2004   §§ 5-201—5-210          Code Enforcement
                                                        Governmental and
04-03           7/21/2004   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
05-01           4/13/2005   Superseded by A.O.          Fee Schedule
05-13           12/21/2005  Tax Rate 2006                
06-01           2/15/2006   §§ 7-103—7-105          Fire Prevention and
                                                        Fire Protection
06-02           –/–/2006§§ 2-301—2-304          Animals
                                                        Licenses, Permits and
06-03           –/–/2006§§ 13-207—13-207        General Business
                                                        Regulations
06-04           12/20/2006  Tax Rate 2007                
06-05           12/20/2006  Zoning Map Amendment        Zoning
                                                        Governmental and
07-01           12/11/2007  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
                                                        Governmental and
07-02           12/19/2007  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
07-03           12/19/2007  Tax Rate 2008                
08-01           12/10/2008  Tax Rate 2009                
                                                        Governmental and
08-02           2/18/2009   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
                                                        Governmental and
08-03           2/10/2009   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
                                                        Governmental and
09-01           12/16/2009  Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
09-02           12/16/2009  Tax Rate 2010                
10-01           12/21/2010  Tax Rate 2011                
                                                        Governmental and
11-01           9/20/2011   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
                                                        Governmental and
11-02           9/20/2011   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
11-03           12/20/2011  Tax Rate 2012                
12-01           3/20/2012   §§ 1-1301, 1-1302         Administration and
                                                        Government
12-02           6/19/2012   §§ 15-1201—15-1206      Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
12-03           6/19/2012   §§ 15-6A01—15-6A06      Motor Vehicles and
                                                        Traffic
12-04           12/18/2012  Tax Rate 2013                
13-01           2/19/2013   Chapter 27, Part 12         Zoning
13-02           12/17/2013  Tax Rate 2014                
14-01           10/15/2014  §§ 8-101—8-901          Floodplains
                                                        Governmental and
14-02           5/20/2014   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
                                                        Governmental and
14-03           5/20/2014   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
14-04           12/18/2014  Tax Rate 2015                
15-01           12/17/2015  Tax Rate 2016                
16-01           12/28/2016  Tax Rate 2017                
17-01           8/15/2017   § 27-1115                  Zoning
17-02           12/28/2017  Tax Rate 2018                
18-01           -/-/2018    §§ 6-901—6-908           
                                                        Governmental and
18-02           8/30/2018   Appendix D                  Intergovernmental
                                                        Affairs
18-03           12/27/2018  Tax Rate 2019                
                                                      
 
Table of Disposition of Significant Resolutions
Resolution Date Disposition Subject
Resolution Date       Disposition         Subject
–/–/A  –/–/–Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
–/–/B  –/–/–Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
6/19/1922  6/19/1922  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
1/29/1923  1/29/1923  Appendix I          Water
1/1/1924   1/1/1924   Appendix B          Bond Issues and Loans
2/24/1931  2/24/1931  Superseded by A.O.  Firemen's Relief Association
8/25/1952  8/25/1952  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
1-A-1952   8/25/1952  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
7/27/1970  7/27/1970  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
4/16/1973  4/16/1973  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
5/21/1973B 5/21/1973  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
5/21/1973A 5/21/1973  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
4/6/1974   4/6/1974   §§ 1-1011—1-1013Administration and Government
5/28/1974  5/28/1974  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
1/6/1975   1/6/1975   §§ 24-101—24-108Taxation
77-1       2/10/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-2       3/10/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-3       5/12/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-4       7/14/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-5       7/14/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-6       8/11/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-7       9/8/1977   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-8       10/13/1977 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-9       10/13/1977 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-10      12/8/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-11      12/8/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-12      12/8/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-13      12/8/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
77-14      12/8/1977  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-7       –/–/197Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-9       –/–/197Tax Rate 1979        
78-1       1/16/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-2       2/20/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-3       3/20/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-4       3/20/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-5       4/17/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-6       5/15/1978  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
78-8       9/7/1978   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-8       –/–/197Tax Rate 1980        
79-1       1/15/1979  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-2       2/19/1979  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-4       6/18/1979  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-5       7/16/1979  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-6       9/24/1979  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
79-7       12/9/1979  Appendix F          Public Property
80-1       2/18/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-2       2/18/1980  Appendix F          Public Property
80-3       3/17/1980  Appendix G          Sewers
80-4       4/21/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-5       4/21/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-6       4/21/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-7       4/21/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-8       5/19/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-9       7/21/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-10      7/21/1980  Appendix F          Public Property
80-11      8/18/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-12      8/18/1980  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-13      10/20/1980 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
80-14      7/21/1980  Appendix F          Public Property
80-15      12/22/1980 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
12/22/1980 12/22/1980 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
2/16/1981  2/16/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-1       2/23/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-2       4/20/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-3       4/27/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-4       8/17/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-5       8/17/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-6       8/17/1981  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
81-7       9/21/1981  Appendix F          Public Property
81-8       12/21/1981 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
83-1       –/–/198Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
83-2       –/–/198Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
83-3       –/–/198Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
83-4       –/–/198Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
84-1       –/–/198Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
84-2       1/20/1984  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
84-3       3/19/1984  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
84-4       3/19/1984  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
84-6       –/–/198Appendix G          Sewers
84-7A      –/–/198Appendix G          Sewers
84-7B      –/–/198Appendix G          Sewers
84-8       8/20/1984  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-1       1/21/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-2       2/18/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-3       3/18/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-4       3/18/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-5       –/–/198Appendix G          Sewers
85-6       5/21/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-7A      7/29/1985  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
85-7B      11/19/1985 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
86-1       12/23/1986 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
87-1       3/11/1987  Appendix B          Bond Issues and Loans
87-2       3/11/1987  Appendix G          Sewers
87-3       5/18/1987  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
92-1A      2/17/1992  Appendix E          Plan Approval
92-2       10/19/1992 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
92-1B      11/16/1992 Appendix E          Plan Approval
94-20      12/19/1994 Appendix G          Sewers
95-1       12/27/1995 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
96-2       –/–/199Superseded by A.O.  Cable T.V. Application Fee
96-7       –/–/199Superseded by A.O.  Fee Resolution
96-1       1/15/1996  §§ 1-701—1-718  Administration and Government
96-3       6/17/1996  Appendix E          Plan Approval
96-4       7/15/1996  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
96-5       7/15/1996  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
96-6       7/15/1996  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
96-8       12/16/1996 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
98-1       1/21/1998  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
98-4       2/16/1998  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
98-2       2/18/1998  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
98-3       2/18/1998  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
99-1       2/2/1999   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
99-2       2/17/1999  Appendix C          Franchises and Services
99-3       8/18/1999  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
99-4       9/15/1999  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
00-1       2/16/2000  Appendix G          Sewers
01-1       11/15/2001 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
02-1       3/20/2002  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
02-2       3/–/2002 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
02-3       11/20/2002 Chapter 27, Part 12 Zoning
02-4       7/17/2002  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
03-01      2/19/2003  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
03-02      –/–/200Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
03-03      –/–/200Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-01      6/15/2004  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-03      6/15/2004  Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
04-02      6/28/2004  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-04      9/2/2004   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04–05    9/2/2004   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-06      9/2/2004   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-07      8/20/2003  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-08      10/11/2004 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-09      11/17/2004 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
04-10      12/15/2004 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-01      1/19/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-02      1/19/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-03      12/15/2004 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-04      1/19/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-05      4/13/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-06      5/18/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-07      7/20/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-08      8/–/2005 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-09      9/21/2005  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-10      11/16/2005 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-11      11/16/2005 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-12      12/21/2005 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
05-14      12/21/2005 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
05-15      12/21/2005 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-01      2/15/2006  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-02      5/1/2006   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-03      5/17/2006  Appendix F          Public Property
06-04      8/16/2006  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-05      7/16/2006  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-06      9/27/2006  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-07      9/20/2006  Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
06-08      10/18/2006 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-09      9/20/2006  § 15-406           Motor Vehicles and Traffic
06-10      12/13/2006 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
06-11      12/20/2006 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
07-01      –/–/200Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
07-02      2/21/2007  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
07-03      4/18/2007  Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
07-04      7/18/2007  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
07-06      12/19/2007 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
07-07      12/19/2007 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
08-01      7/9/2008   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
08-02      7/9/2008   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
08-03      10/18/2008 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
08-04      11/12/2008 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
08-05      11/12/2008 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
09-01      3/18/2009  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
09-02      8/19/2009  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
09-03      5/20/2009  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
09-04      5/20/2009  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
09-05      12/16/2009 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
09-06      12/16/2009 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
10-01      2/17/2010  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
10-02      7/21/2010  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
10-04      11/16/2010 Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
10-05      12/21/2010 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
10-06      12/21/2010 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
16-03      9/28/2016  Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
16-04      12/28/2015 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
16-05      12/28/2016 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
17-02      12/28/2017 § 27-1116          Zoning
17-03      12/28/2017 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
17-04      12/28/2017 Superseded by A.O.  Fee Schedule
17-05      -/-/2017   Appendix C          Franchises and Services
18-01      2/15/2018                     Fee Schedule
18-02      2/15/2018                     Fee Schedule
18-03      2/15/2018  Appendix I          Water
18-04      2/15/2018  Appendix G          Sewers
18-05      6/28/2018                     Fee Schedule
18-06      6/28/2018  § 11-203           Housing
18-07      -/-/2018   Appendix D          Governmental and Intergovernmental
                                          Affairs
                                        
 
