CITY OF UNION, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-8 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 569, passed 11-14-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   UNION CHARTER
   AN ACT ENACTING A CHARTER FOR THE CITY OF UNION, UNION COUNTY, OREGON; AND
REPEALING ALL FORMER CHARTERS OF THE CITY.
   Be it enacted by the city of Union, Union County, Oregon:
CHAPTER I
Name, Boundaries and General Provisions
   Section 1.   Name. The city of Union, Union County, Oregon, shall continue
to be a municipal corporation under the name “City of Union.”
   Section 2.   Boundaries. The boundaries of the city shall be as follows:
   Commencing at the northwest quarter [corner] of the northwest quarter of
Section 18, Township 4 south, Range 40 east of the Willamette Meridian, and
running east one-half mile; thence south one-fourth mile; thence east one-
fourth mile; thence south one-fourth of a mile; thence east one-fourth of a
mile; thence south one-half of a mile; thence west one-fourth of a mile; thence
south one mile; thence west three-fourths of a mile; thence north one-fourth of
a mile; thence west three-fourths of a mile to the northwest corner of the
southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 24, Township 4 south,
Range 39 east of the Willamette Meridian; thence north about seven-eighths of a
mile to Catherine Creek; thence east one-fourth of a mile, Catherine Creek
being the line; thence north about three-eighths of a mile to the center of
Section 13, Township 4 south, Range 39 east of the Willamette Meridian; thence
east one-fourth of a mile; thence north one-fourth of a mile; thence east one-
fourth of a mile; thence north one-fourth of a mile to place of beginning.
   Section 3.   Existing Ordinances Continued. All ordinances and regulations
of the city consistent with this charter and in force when it takes effect
shall remain in effect until amended or repealed.
   Section 4.   Existing Rights and Liabilities Continued. Except as this
charter provides otherwise, its adoption shall impair or destroy no right,
power, privilege, immunity or liability of the city existing at the time of the
adoption.
CHAPTER II
Powers
   Section 5.   Powers of the City. The city shall have all rights, powers,
privileges and immunities which the constitutions, statutes and common law of
the United States and of this state expressly or impliedly grant or allow
municipalities, as fully as though this charter expressly stated each of those
rights, powers, privileges and immunities.
   Section 6.   Enumeration of Powers Not Exclusive. In this charter no
enumeration of or reference to particular rights, powers, privileges or
immunities shall be construed to be exclusive.
   Section 7.   Exercise of Power. The city’s exercise of a right, power,
privilege or immunity, where not prescribed by constitution or law, shall be in
the manner prescribed in this charter; or, where not prescribed by
constitution, law or this charter, then in the manner prescribed by ordinance
or resolution of the council.
CHAPTER III
Form of Government
   Section 8.   Form of Government. The government of the city shall be vested
in a council and a mayor.
   Section 9.   Council. The council shall be composed of six councilmen
elected at large. Each councilman shall serve a term of four years and until
his successor is elected and qualified. The two councilmen in office at the
time of adoption of this charter whose terms of office expire at the end of
1941 shall continue in office until 1942. At the regular city election in 1940,
four councilmen shall be elected. The one receiving the lowest number of votes
shall serve until the end of 1942. The other three shall serve until the end of
1944. At each subsequent regular city election, three councilmen shall be
elected to serve a term of four years.
   Section 10.   Mayor. At each regular city election a mayor shall be elected.
He shall serve a term of two years and until his successor is elected and
qualified.
   Section 11.   Other Officers and Employes. Additional officers of the city
shall be a municipal judge, a recorder, a treasurer and any other officer whom
the council deems necessary. These officers shall be appointed by the mayor
with the approval of the city council. By resolution the council may combine
any of these offices, and may provide that any person whom it designates may
supervise any appointive officer except the municipal judge in the exercise of
the officer’s functions.
   Section 12.   Qualifications of Officers. No person shall be eligible to an
elective office in the city who at the time of his election is not a qualified
voter of the state or has not resided within the city for one year immediately
preceding his election.
CHAPTER IV
The Council
   Section 13.   Council Meetings. The council shall provide a time and place
for its regular meetings and adopt rules and regulations for the government of
its members and proceedings. It shall meet regularly at least once each month.
The mayor, either upon his own motions or upon the request of three or more
members of the council, may call a special meeting of the council for any time
by giving notice of the meeting to all members of the council then in the city.
Special meetings of the council may also be held by common consent of all the
members of the council.
   Section 14.   Quorum. A majority of the members of the council shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a less number may meet and compel
attendance of the absent members in a manner provided by ordinance. The mayor
shall be deemed a councilman for the purpose of constituting a quorum.
   Section 15.   Journal. The council shall keep a journal of its proceedings;
and, upon the request of the mayor or two of its members, the ayes and nays
upon a question before it shall be taken and a record of the vote entered in
the journal.
   Section 16.   Meetings to Be Public. The deliberations and proceedings of
the council shall be public.
   Section 17.   Mayor’s Duties at Council Meetings. The mayor shall be the
presiding officer of the council. He shall not vote except in case of a tie
vote of the members of the council present at a meeting. He shall have
authority to preserve order, enforce the rules of the council and determine the
order of business under the rules of the council.
   Section 18.   President of the Council. At its first meeting after the
adoption of this charter, and thereafter at its first meeting of each
succeeding year, the council by ballot shall elect a president from its
membership. In the mayor’s absence from a council meeting, the president shall
preside. Whenever the mayor is unable, on account of absence, illness or other
cause to perform the functions of his office, the president of the council
shall act as mayor.
   Section 19.   Vote Required. The concurrence of a majority of the members of
the council present at any meeting shall be necessary to determine any question
before the council, except in case of a tie vote, and in the event of a tie
vote the mayor shall cast the deciding vote.
CHAPTER V
Powers and Duties of City Officers
   Section 20.   Mayor. The mayor shall be the executive officer of the city
and shall exercise a careful supervision over its general affairs. He shall
appoint the committees provided for under the rules of the council, or
otherwise, and by appointment shall fill all vacancies in committees of the
council from that body. He shall sign all approved proceedings of the council
and countersign all orders on the city [treasury]. He shall have no veto power
and shall sign all ordinances passed by the city council within three days
after their passage. He shall sign all writings authorized by this charter, the
laws of the state or the council. He shall approve, with the consent of the
council, all official bonds and bonds for licenses, contracts and proposals.
With the consent of the council, he shall have power to remove or suspend any
appointive officer or public employe of the city for any cause which he deems
sufficient and shall state the cause in the order of removal or suspension.
   Section 21.   Municipal Judge. The municipal judge shall be the judicial
officer of the city. He shall hold within the city a court known as the
municipal court for the city of Union, Union County, Oregon. Except on
nonjudicial days, the court shall be open for the transaction of judicial
business as prescribed by the laws of the state. The jurisdiction of the court
shall be the city. The municipal judge shall exercise original and exclusive
jurisdiction of all crimes and offenses defined and made punishable by an
ordinance of the city, and of all actions brought to recover or enforce
forfeitures or penalties defined or authorized by an ordinance of the city. The
municipal judge shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of persons
accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city, to commit such
persons to jail or admit them to bail pending trial, to issue subpoenas, to
compel witnesses to appear and testify before him on the trial of any cause
before him, to compel obedience to such subpoenas, to issue any process
necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the municipal court, and to
punish witnesses and others for contempt of the court. When not governed by
ordinance or this charter, all proceedings in the municipal court for the
violation of a city ordinance shall be governed by the applicable general laws
of the state governing justices of the peace and justice courts. Trials in the
municipal court of cases of violation of city ordinances shall be had without a
jury.
   Section 22.   Recorder. The recorder shall be ex officio clerk of the
council, attend all the meetings of the council, and keep an accurate record of
its proceedings in a book provided for that purpose. In his absence from a
council meeting, the council shall appoint a clerk of the council pro tempore,
who, while acting in that capacity, shall have all the authority of the
recorder. The recorder shall countersign all writings authorized by this
charter, the council or the law of the state.
CHAPTER VI
Elections
   Section 23.   Regular City Elections. Regular city elections shall be held
at the same time and places as general biennial elections for state and county
officers. At each regular city election all elective officers to be elected at
that time, and all matters submitted to the electors at that time, shall be
voted upon. The election officers and precincts within the city for such state
and county elections shall be the election officers and precincts for regular
city elections.
   Section 24.   Special Elections. By resolution the council may call and
provide for special elections.
   Section 25.   Notice of Elections. The recorder, under the direction of the
council, shall give at least 10 days’ notice of each city election by posting
the notice in three public places in each precinct in the city or by publishing
the notice twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The notice
shall state the officers to be elected at the election, the measures to be
voted on at the election and the time and places of election.
   Section 26.   Qualifications of Electors. Every legal voter of the state who
has been a resident of the city for 90 days immediately preceding the election
shall be entitled to vote at a city election.
   Section 27.   Canvass of Election Returns. By noon of the day following a
city election, the returns of the election shall be filed with the recorder;
and within 10 days after the election, the recorder and at least one member of
the council shall meet and canvass the returns. In all elections held in
conjunction with state and county elections, the state law governing the filing
and canvassing of returns shall apply. The results of each election shall be
entered in the journal of the council. The record shall state the number of
votes cast at the election, the number of votes cast for each person, the
number of votes cast for and against each measure, the names of the officers
elected, and the measures enacted or approved. Tie votes shall be resolved by
lot.
   Section 28.   Certificate of Election. Immediately after completion of the
canvass, the recorder shall issue a certificate of election to each person
elected. The certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts which it
states, but the council shall be the final judge of the qualifications and
election of its own members, subject, however, to review by a court of
competent jurisdiction. Contested elections shall be determined according to
the state law regulating proceedings in contested elections of county officers.
   Section 29.   Commencement of Terms of Office. The term of each elective
officer chosen at a regular city election shall commence at the time of the
first regular meeting in January immediately following the election. In case of
an election or appointment to fill a vacancy in an office, the person elected
or appointed shall enter upon his office immediately.
   Section 30.   Oath of Office. Every officer, upon entering office, shall
take or file with the recorder an oath or affirmation that he will support the
constitution and laws of the United States and of this state and the charter
and ordinances of the city of Union, and that he will perform the duties of his
office to the best of his ability.
   Section 31.   Nominations. The council shall provide by ordinance the mode
for nominating elective officers.
CHAPTER VII
Vacancies in Office
   Section 32.   When Office Is Vacant. An office shall be deemed vacant upon
the incumbent’s death, insanity, conviction of a felony, resignation, removal
from the city, absence from the city for a period of 30 days without the
consent of the council, or ceasing to possess the qualifications necessary for
the office; or upon the failure of the person elected or appointed to an office
to qualify therefor on or before the day his term of office commences; and in
the case of the mayor or a member of the council, in addition to the above
causes, upon his absence from meetings of the council for a period of 60 days
without the consent of the council.
   Section 33.   Filling of Vacancies. Vacancies in office shall be filled by
appointment of the council, and the appointee shall serve the unexpired term of
his predecessor. Within 24 hours after his appointment, an officer appointed to
fill a vacancy must qualify for the office as in case of an officer elected
and, in case he fails to so qualify, be deemed to have declined the office and
the office shall be deemed vacant.
CHAPTER VIII
Ordinances
   Section 34.   Enacting Clause. The enacting clause of all ordinances shall
be, “The city of Union does ordain as follows:”
   Section 35.   Introduction, Reading and Passage. Every ordinance shall be
fully and distinctly read in open council meeting on two different days
previous to being put upon its final passage; but any ordinance may be
introduced, read twice, once in full and once by title, and put on its final
passage at a single meeting by a unanimous vote of all members of the council
present at the meeting. Upon the final vote, the ayes and nays of the members
of the council shall be taken and recorded in the journal. If the ordinance
passes, the recorder shall so endorse it, with the date and his name and title
of office; and the mayor shall, within three days thereafter, sign the
ordinance with the date, his name and the title of office.
   Section 36.   When Ordinances Take Effect. Each ordinance passed by the
council shall take effect on the thirtieth day after it has been signed by the
mayor; but when the council desires, or in case of an emergency, an ordinance
may provide a different time when it is to take effect, or that it is to take
effect immediately.
CHAPTER IX
Public Improvements
   Section 37.   Condemnation. The necessity for taking property by
condemnation shall be determined by the council and declared by a resolution
describing the property and stating the use to which it is to be devoted.
   Section 38.   Special Assessment. The procedure for levying special
assessments for public improvements shall be governed by ordinance.
   Section 39.   Bids for Public Improvements. All contracts for public
improvements shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder, to be done
according to the plans and specifications to be furnished by the proper office
or department of the city and approved by the council.
CHAPTER X
Miscellaneous
   Section 40.   Limitations on General and Bonded Indebtedness. Unless
otherwise authorized by the legal voters of the city, the council shall not
contract a voluntary floating indebtedness of the city in excess of the sum of
$30,000 for general city purposes; provided, that the legally authorized debt
of the city of Union existent November 1, 1940, shall not be included in such
indebtedness for purposes of calculation of the limitation. City officials or
employes who create or officially approve any indebtedness in excess of the
limitation shall be jointly and severally liable for the amount of the excess.
   Section 41.   Damage Suits. The city shall in no event be liable in damages
for an injury to person or property caused by a defect or dangerous place in a
sidewalk, crosswalk, street, alley, sewer, public ground, public building,
drain, gutter, ditch or way, unless prior to the injury the city has written
notice of the defect or dangerous place, and a reasonable time after the notice
in which to remove or repair the defect or dangerous place. In no case shall
more than $100.00 be recovered as damages from the city for such an accident or
injury.
   No action shall be maintained against the city for damages growing out of
such an accident or injury unless the claimant, within 30 days after sustaining
the injury or damages, gives to the council written notice stating:
   (1)   When, where and the circumstances under which the accident or injury
occurred;
   (2)   His claim for compensation for the injury or damage; and
   (3)   The amount of compensation or relief demanded.
   The city shall not be liable for the injury or damage until 30 days have
elapsed after the presentation of the notice to the council.
   Section 42.   Repealing Clause and Date Charter Becomes Effective. All
former charters of the city, together with their amendments, are repealed. But
this provision shall in no way impair the effect of Section 4 of this charter.
This charter shall become effective immediately upon its approval by the voters
of the city of Union.
CHAPTER XI
Sewage Disposal System
   Section 43.   Authorization of Sewage Disposal System. The city council of
the city of Union, Oregon, is hereby authorized and directed to construct,
operate and maintain a sewage disposal system, together with all related
facilities usable or convenient thereto or in connection therewith, and to
acquire property to be used in connection therewith.
   Section 44.   General Obligation Bonds. In connection with and for the
purpose of carrying forward the foregoing project, the city council is
authorized and directed to issue general obligation installment-type bonds of
the city in a sum not exceeding $995,000.00 and to use the proceeds of said
bonds for the completion of said project.
   Section 45.   Maturity and Tenure. The city council shall determine the
maturity and tenure of such bonds, provided that they shall be serial in
character and shall be payable over a period not to exceed 40 years from the
date of issue.
   Section 46.   Sale of Bonds. The council is authorized and directed to issue
and to sell such bonds from time to time as the same may be needed for the
purposes hereinabove specified.
   Section 47.   Sinking Fund. The city council shall establish a sinking fund
for the prompt payment of such bonds as they mature and for the payment of
interest thereon.
   Section 48.   Sewer User Fees and Rates. The council is hereby authorized
and directed to establish such sewer user fees and rates, sewer connection
charges and assessments as said council shall deem necessary to provide
interest and principal payments for the such installment-type bonds. Said bonds
shall be used for no other purpose as long as any of the bonds hereby
authorized shall be outstanding.
   Section 49.   Tax Levy. The city council shall include in the general
municipal tax levy of the city of Union, Oregon, in each year, a special levy
sufficient to raise an amount which, together with other available funds, shall
be sufficient to pay principal and interest payments on said bonds when due.
[Chapter XI   added by special election held November 5, 1974.]
CHAPTER XII
Miscellaneous Amendments
   Section 50.   Debt Limitation. Unless authorized by the legal voters of the
city, the City Council shall not contract a voluntary lease agreement in excess
of the sum of $30,000 including interest, for the duration of the contract. The
power to indebt the city beyond this limit by any legal instrument rests
entirely with the voting public.
   Section 51.   Public Meeting Notification. The City Council must notify the
citizenry of Union within 30 days prior to voting on a motion, resolution, or
ordinance that affects water or sewer user fees, creates an order on the city
treasury in excess of the budgeted amount, modifies zoning requirements, of
affects city law. Such notification shall be satisfied only by a direct mass
mailing to the townspeople of Union and the notice shall include an invitation
for each citizen to attend a public meeting that will be held prior to a vote.
   Section 52.   Conflict of Interest. No elective officer or employee, outside
of employment, of the City of Union shall provide or contract for goods or
services in excess of $1,500.00 per fiscal year to the City of Union.
   Section 53.   Election to Numbered Seats. Each candidate for election to the
City Council shall specify the number of the seat for which he or she is
filing. For each seat, the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes
shall be elected.
   At the regular meeting of the City Council in July, 1988, the Mayor shall
assign numbers to the seats on the Council; as Position Number One, Position
Number Two, and so on. Those positions due for election in 1988 shall receive
odd numbers.
[Chapter XII added by election held May 17, 1988.]
CHAPTER XIII
Water System Improvements
   Section 54.   The City Council of the City of Union, Oregon, is hereby
authorized and directed to improve, expand and repair the existing water
distribution system, and to acquire the necessary facilities and property to be
used in connection therewith.
   Section 55.   In connection with, and for the purpose of carrying forward,
the foregoing project, the City Council is authorized and directed to issue
general obligation bonds of the City in a sum not exceeding $600,000 and to use
the proceeds of said bonds for the completion of said project.
   Section 56.   The City Council shall determine the maturity and tenure of
such bonds, provided that they shall be serial in character and shall be
payable over a period not to exceed forty (40) years from the date of issue.
   Section 57.   The Council is authorized and directed to issue and sell such
bonds from time to time as the same may be needed for the purpose hereinabove
specified.
   Section 58.   The City Council shall establish a sinking fund for the prompt
payment of such bonds as they mature and for the payment of interest thereon.
   Section 59.   The Council is hereby authorized and directed to establish
such water user fees and rates, water connection charges and assessments as
said Council shall deem necessary to provide interest and principal payments
for the bonds. Said fund shall be used for no other purpose as long as any of
the bonds hereby authorized shall be outstanding.
   Section 60.   The City Council shall include in the general municipal tax
levy of the City of Union, Oregon, in each year, a special levy sufficient to
raise an amount which, together with other available funds, shall be sufficient
to pay principal and interest payments on said bonds when due.
[Chapter XIII added by special election held June 18, 1988.]
CHAPTER XIV
Utility Rates
   Section 61.   Limitations of Salary and Benefits. In the operation of the
City of Union’s water and sewage system, the expense of salary and benefits of
city employees as they perform services for said systems shall not exceed 45
percent of the total of the Utility Fund, the General Fund, and the Street
Fund.
   Section 62.   Exclusive Usage of Utility Funds. Funds collected through the
imposition of water and sewer rates shall be used, respectively, for water and
sewer system purposes. The City of Union shall not, use, borrow, or draw upon
such funds for other purposes including, but not limited to, general fund
purposes.
   If revenues received from the imposition of water and sewer rates exceed
expenses of the current operation, capital improvement costs, and debt service
for such said water and sewer systems, the excess water and sewer revenues
shall be held, respectively, in the water improvement reserve fund and the
sewer improvement reserve fund, and the use of those funds shall be limited to
the future maintenance, improvement, and debt payment of the water and sewer
systems, respectively.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“City of Union Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The area within the
corporate boundaries of Union, Oregon as presently established or as amended by
ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY,
when used in this code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its
authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Union, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body shall take effect as provided
in the City Charter. If there is no City Charter, all ordinances passed by the
legislative body shall take effect as provided by the legislative body or
applicable state law.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
180, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (O.R.S. 192.410) (Ord. 180, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 185, passed
1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.420
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Minimum penalty for violations of all ordinances.
      (1)   Fines not to be reduced below minimum. Not withstanding any
provision of any other ordinance of the City of Union, the Municipal Court
shall not defer, waive, suspend or otherwise reduce the fine for a violation of
a city ordinance to an amount below the minimum fine required by this section.
      (2)   Not affected. Nothing in this section:
         (a)   Affects the manner in which a court imposes or reduces monthly
obligations other than fines payable to the City of Union;
         (b)   Allows the Municipal Court to reduce any fine amount below a
minimum fine amount established by state statute that controls the amount of
the fine in a given instance; and
         (c)   Affects the ability of the Municipal Court to establish a
payment schedule for fines imposed by the court upon a showing of inability of
a defendant to immediately pay.
      (3)   Unitary and county assessments in addition to fine. For the purpose
of establishing the minimum fine required by this section, the unitary
assessment required by O.R.S. 137.290 and the county assessment required by
O.R.S. 137.309 shall not be included; instead, they shall be assessed in
addition to the minimum fine.
      (4)   Minimum fines. The minimum fine shall be 20% of the maximum fine
allowed by the ordinance of which the defendant is convicted for a first
offense.
      (5)   Increasing maximum fine for certain violations.
         (a)   If a person is convicted to a traffic violation that was a
factor contributing to a traffic accident, the minimum fine shall be 60% of the
maximum fine established for the violation of which the person was convicted.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of a traffic violation that occurred
within a street work zone that has been posted as such or within a posted
school zone, the minimum fine shall be 80% of the maximum fine established for
the violation of which the person was convicted.
         (c)   If a person is convicted of a violation that resulted in
intentional harm to the person or property of another, the minimum fine shall
be 80% of the maximum fine established for the violation of which the person is
convicted.
         (d)   If a person is convicted of any city ordinance, and if the
conviction is the second conviction of that city ordinance within a one-year
period, then the minimum fine shall be 40% of the maximum fine established for
the violation of which the person was convicted.
         (e)   If a person is convicted of any city ordinance, and if the
conviction is the third conviction of that city ordinance within a one-year
period, then the minimum fine shall be 100% of the maximum fine established for
that violation of which the person was convicted.
         (f)   All subsequent convictions within a one-year period of
violations shall be the maximum penalty for which the person was convicted.
   (B)   Providing for procedures in Municipal Court; providing a general
penalty for violations of all ordinances.
      (1)   Pretrial proceedings.
         (a)   The Municipal Court and the Judge thereof shall have
jurisdiction over all violations of city ordinances. This requirement shall not
be interpreted as preventing the City of Union from contracting with another
public body for judicial services by a Judge thereof, nor from citing any
person into the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon when the offence to be
charged is a violation of state law.
         (b)   Persons to be charged with a violation of an ordinance of the
City of Union shall not be arrested, but shall be summoned to appear before the
Municipal Judge by means of a summons, complaint, citation or a combination
thereof. The Municipal Judge shall have the authority by rule to determine the
requirements of the form and content of documents used to charge violations.
Absent adoption of rules by the Court, the documents shall, at a minimum,
comply with due process.
         (c)   The only answers to documents charging a violation shall be an
admission, a denial or an answer of “no contest”. A denial shall be deemed to
controvert every material allegation in the complaint, citation or summons.
         (d)   Motions, answers and pleas to documents charging a violation
shall be made either orally in open court or in writing, according to rules of
procedures as may be set by the Municipal Judge.
         (e)   Upon an answer of “no contest” or admission to a complaint
charging an infraction, the Court shall render judgment against the respondent.
Upon an answer of denial, the court shall set the case for trial without a
jury, unless the person charged is entitled to a jury pursuant to Ord. 253, as
amended by this section.
         (f)   In lieu of a personal appearance and answer, the person charged
with a violation may file with the court a written waiver of appearance and
forfeiture accompanied by a deposit of the scheduled forfeiture as provided for
in Section 10.99(B)(3)(f). In addition, the person may file with the waiver a
written explanation of the circumstances of the violation. The Municipal Judge
may, after any further investigation the Judge deems necessary to verify the
respondent’s explanation, reduce all or a portion of the scheduled forfeiture
and refund any balance to the person charged. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
upon the written request and justification by the City of Union, the Municipal
Judge may on a case by case basis order the personal appearance of the person
and disallow the filing of a waiver and forfeiture.
         (g)   The Municipal Court, or an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Oregon, shall have the power to issue summons for the appearance
of witnesses in Municipal Court. It shall be the duty of all persons duly
subpoenaed in any cause pending in the Municipal Court to attend the Court and
testify in accordance with the requirements of the subpoena.
         (h)   Any witness who shall refuse to attend the Municipal Court or to
testify as required by division (B)(1) above shall be deemed and held to be
guilty of contempt of court, and the Court, in case of the refusal, shall have
authority to issue a warrant for the arrest of any person so refusing and, on
the persons being brought before the court on the warrant, unless the person
shall purge himself or herself of the contempt by showing his or her inability
to attend and testify as required by the subpoena served on him or her, the
court shall summarily impose upon the person a fine not exceeding $100.
         (i)   The laws of the State of Oregon governing the payment of
witnesses in justice court shall be and they are hereby adopted in their
entirety for the Municipal Court as to the per diem payment and per mileage
payment.
      (2)   Trials.   Trials in Municipal Court shall be in accordance with
procedural rules as may be adopted by the Municipal Court Judge, though the
Judge is not required to adopt procedural rules, and shall generally proceed as
follows:
         (a)   If a defendant is entitled to a jury, after the jury is selected
and sworn, the Court shall instruct the jury concerning its duties, its conduct
and the order of proceedings;
         (b)   The city shall then concisely state the plaintiff’s case and the
issues to be tried; the defendant then, in like manner, shall state defendant’s
case;
         (c)   The city shall introduce the evidence on plaintiffs case in
chief and, when plaintiff has concluded, the defendant shall do likewise;
         (d)   The parties respectively may introduce rebutting evidence only,
unless a court in furtherance of justice permits them to introduce new
evidence;
         (e)   When the evidence is concluded, both sides shall commence and
conclude the argument to the court, and jury if applicable. The city shall have
the right to reply to the argument of the defendant; and
         (f)   If a jury has been empaneled after the evidence is concluded,
and the parties have argued their cases, the court shall instruct the jury.
      (3)   General penalty.
         (a)   Whenever, pursuant to any other ordinance of the City of Union,
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or
the doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense, the violation shall be classified as a “violation” and
shall be punished as provided in this section, notwithstanding any provision of
any other existing ordinance of the city. The penalties of this section shall
apply to any violation occurring on or after the effective date hereof unless
the violation is of an ordinance that is adopted after the effective date
hereof which expressly provides a different penalty.
         (b)   The maximum penalty for a violation shall be an amount not
exceeding $500. However, this penalty shall be in addition to any assessment or
fine which may be required to be imposed, such as, but not limited to, the
unitary assessment described in O.R.S. 137.290, the county assessment referred
to in O.R.S. 137.309 or any other fine or assessment which may be imposed by
force of law in addition to those imposed by an ordinance of the city.
         (c)   There shall be no sentence of any imprisonment for any
violation.
         (d)   Every day any violation of an ordinance of the city shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
         (e)   This section shall apply to the violations of any Oregon state
statute when an ordinance of the city makes the violations an offense against
the city.
         (f)   For the purposes of facilitating dispositions of violations, the
Municipal Judge may promulgate a schedule of forfeitures plus any required
assessments or fines for particular infractions, and the person charged with an
infraction may deposit with the Court the amounts so scheduled, waive further
appearance and have the sum so deposited forfeited as on a plea of “no
contest”. The Court shall not, however, be bound by the schedule on appearance
and admission by the person charged, or on trial and judgment against the
person charged. The Court in such a case may impose any forfeiture allowed by
this section.
         (g)   This section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting or limiting
the city’s right to abate, enjoin or alleviate an ordinance violation when the
power is given to the city by ordinance or common law.
      (4)   Arrest for failure to respond to court summons. Notwithstanding the
terms of any provision of the City of Union Code otherwise, if a person fails
to either appear in accordance with §
10.99(B)(1)(b) or to waive appearance and deposit the scheduled forfeiture in
accordance with §
10.99(B)(1)(f), the City of Union may apply to the Municipal Court for an order
directing the issuance of a warrant for the arrest of the person. The request
shall be accompanied by an affidavit which shall state the relevant facts. If
the Court finds that the person received a summons, complaint, citation, or
combination thereof and failed to appear or alternatively failed to waive
appearance and deposit the scheduled forfeiture, the Court shall order the
issuance of a warrant for the arrest of the person in order to bring the person
before the Court to show cause why the person should not be held in contempt
for a failure to appear. Upon a finding of such contempt, the Court may impose
a fine in an amount set by the City Council by resolution from time to time,
and may impose imprisonment as a penalty, notwithstanding any provision of the
City of Union Code otherwise.
      (5)   Penalty and arrest of certain persons for contempt of court.
Notwithstanding the terms of any provision of the City of Union Code otherwise,
a person who is ordered by the Municipal Court to undertake certain actions, or
to refrain from certain actions, as part of a prior disposition of the person’s
violation of an ordinance and who thereafter fails to fully comply with the
order shall be deemed and held to be guilty of contempt of court.
Notwithstanding §§
10.99(B)(1)(b) and
10.99(B)(3)(c), the Court shall have the authority to issue a warrant for the
arrest of the person in order to bring the person before the Court to show
cause why the person should not be held in contempt. Upon a finding of
contempt, the Court may impose a fine in an amount set by the City Council by
resolution from time to time, and may impose imprisonment as a penalty,
notwithstanding any provision of the City of Union Code otherwise.
(Ord. 498, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 510, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 538, passed 9-
8-2014)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   TRIALS AND ELECTIONS
      
35.   CIVIL VIOLATION PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Council as Local Contract Review Board; Procedures
   
30.01   Contract Review Board
   
30.02   Definitions
   
30.03   Public contracts for goods and services
   
30.04   Public improvement contracts
   
30.05   Offeror disqualification
   
30.06   Personal services contracts
   
30.07   Disposition of personal property
   
30.08   Adoption of codes and rules
Fixing Regular Meeting Dates; Rules and Regulations for Proceedings
   
30.25   Regular City Council meetings
   
30.26   Special Council meetings
   
30.27   Executive sessions
   
30.28   Agenda
   
30.29   Consent calendar
   
30.30   Order of business; regular meeting
   
30.31   Business; special meetings
   
30.32   Altering order of agenda
   
30.33   Order of deliberations
   
30.34   Rules of conduct and decorum
   
30.35   Ordinance procedure
COUNCIL AS LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD; PROCEDURES
§ 30.01 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   The City Council is designated to continue as the Local Contract Review
Board of the city and shall have all of the rights, powers and authority
necessary to carry out the provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C
(the "Public Contracting Code"). Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, the City Council, or its designated purchasing agent, is designated
as the city's contracting agency for purposes of contracting powers and duties
assigned to the city as a contracting agency under the Public Contracting Code.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, the following words or phrases shall have
the following meanings. All words and phrases not defined in this section shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Public Contracting Code or the Model
Rules adopted by the Oregon Attorney General thereunder ("Model Rules").
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written offers are solicited by
advertising or other writing stating the quantity and quality of goods or
services to be acquired, and which offers are received by the contracting
agency on or before a stated date. In soliciting formal quotes, the contracting
agency shall seek quotes from a sufficiently large number of potential offerors
to insure sufficient competition to meet the best interests of the city. An
award based on less than three formal quotes may be made, provided the
contracting agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain quotes.
      INFORMAL QUOTE. Procedure pursuant to which written or verbal offers are
gathered by correspondence, telephone or personal contact stating the quantity
and quality of good or services to be acquired. In soliciting informal quotes,
the contracting agency shall seek quotes from a sufficiently large number of
potential offerors to insure sufficient competition to meet the best needs of
the city. An award based on less than three quotes may be made, provided the
contracting agency makes a written record of the effort to obtain quotes.
      PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT. A contract to retain the services of an
independent contractor, including architects, engineers, land surveying and
related services. The contract shall be predominantly for services requiring
special training or certification, independent judgment, skill and experience.
      SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT. A contract for goods or services, or a class of
goods or services, available from only one source.
      WORKS OF ART. All forms of original creations of visual art, including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Painting. All media, including both portable and permanently
affixed or integrated works such as murals;
         (b)   Sculpture. In the round, bas-relief, high relief, mobile,
fountain, kinetic, electronic and the like, in any material or combination of
materials; and
         (c)   Miscellaneous art. Prints, clay, drawings, stained class,
mosaics, photography, fiber and textiles, wood, metal, plastics and other
materials or combination of materials, calligraphy and mixed media, any
combination of forms of media, including collage.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.03 PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR GOODS AND SERVICES.
   This section applies to public contracts that are not contracts for public
improvements or contracts for personal services. A public contract shall not be
artificially divided or fragmented to qualify for a different award procedure
than that provided by this section.
   (A)   Public contracts.  The following classes of public contracts and
respective award procedures are created.
      (1)   Public contracts valued at less than $5,000. A public contract for
an amount which is valued at less than $5,000 shall be awarded by the
contracting agency based on informal quotes. Amendments to public contracts
under this section may not cause the contract price to exceed $6,000.
      (2)   Public contracts valued at $5,000 or more but less than $25,000. A
public contract for an amount which is valued at $5,000 or more, but less than
$25,000, shall be awarded by the contracting agency based on formal quotes.
Amendments to public contracts under this section may not cause the contract
price to exceed an amount that is greater than 25% of the original contract
price.
      (3)   Public contracts from $25,000. A public contract for an amount
which is valued at $25,000 or more shall be awarded by the City Council based
on competitive sealed bidding or competitive sealed proposals pursuant to the
Public Contracting Code.
   (B)   Exemptions. The requirements of division (A) above do not apply to the
following classes of public contracts:
      (1)   Sole source procurement pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.075;
      (2)   Emergency procurement pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.080;
      (3)   Purchases through federal programs pursuant to O.R.S. 279A.180;
      (4)   Contracts for products or supplies under $5,000;
      (5)   Contracts for the purchase or commissioning of works of art;
      (6)   Amendments to contracts exceeding the limits in division (A) above
if the City Council determines that it is not reasonably feasible to require
additional competitive procurement to complete the purpose of the contract;
otherwise the Council shall direct additional competitive procurement and the
competitive procurement procedure required for the amendment; and
      (7)   By resolution, the City Council may exempt other public contracts
or classes of public contracts from the requirements of division (A) above
pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.085.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.04 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   A public improvement contract is defined pursuant to the Public Contracting
Code and does not include contracts for minor alterations, ordinary repair and
maintenance of public improvements, contracts for projects for which no funds
of the city are directly or indirectly used except for participation that is
incidental or related primarily to project design or inspection, and does not
include any other construction contract that is not defined as a public
improvement under the Public Contracting Code. A public improvement contract
shall not be artificially divided to qualify for a different award procedure
than that provided by this section.
   (A)   Public contracts; awarded. All public improvement contracts shall be
awarded by the Council based on competitive sealed bids pursuant to the Public
Contracting Code.
   (B)   Exemptions. The requirements of division (A) above do not apply to the
following classes of public improvement contracts.
      (1)   Public improvement contracts valued at less than $5,000. Public
improvement contracts valued at less than $5,000 shall be awarded by the
contracting agency based on informal quotes.
      (2)   Public improvement contracts valued at $5,000 or more but less than
$25,000. Public improvement contracts valued at $5,000 or more but less than
$25,000 shall be awarded by the contracting agency based on formal quotes.
      (3)   Exempted from competitive bidding. Emergency public improvement
contracts may be exempted from competitive bidding if the contracting agency
determines that an emergency exists and that conditions require the prompt
execution of a contract. Emergency public improvement contracts shall be
awarded in accordance with the Public Contracting Code. The City Administrator
shall provide the Council as contracting agency with a written statement
indicating the nature of the emergency and stating with particularity the
emergency conditions and why they pose an imminent threat to the public health,
safety or welfare. The contracting agency shall not declare the same emergency
more than two times in any 90-day period.
      (4)   Resolution. By resolution, the City Council may exempt from
competitive bidding a public improvement contract or class of public
improvement contracts not otherwise exempt under this section pursuant to
O.R.S. 279C.335.
      (5)   Competitive proposals.  When an exemption allows for award of the
contract through competitive proposals, the provisions of O.R.S. 279C.400 to
279C.410 shall apply.
   (C)   Amendments. Amendments to public improvement contracts shall comply
with the Public Contracting Code.
   (D)   Performance and payment bonds. The performance and payment bonds
requirements and exceptions of the Public Contracting Code shall apply to all
public improvement contracts.
   (E)   City equipment and personnel.  The city may undertake to construct a
public improvement using its own equipment and personnel if doing so will
result in the least cost to the city or public. For purposes of this section,
resurfacing of roads at a depth of two or more inches and at an estimated cost
of more than $125,000 is a public improvement. If the city decides to construct
a public improvement estimated to cost more than $125,000 using its own
personnel and equipment, the city shall prepare adequate plans and
specifications and the estimated unit cost of each classification of work, and
maintain an accurate accounting in accordance with O.R.S. 279C.305.
   (F)   Exceeding budget. If all responsive offers on a public improvement
contract exceed the budget for the project, the contracting agency may, prior
to contract award, negotiate for a price within the budget under the following
procedures:
      (1)   Negotiations shall start with the lowest responsive, responsible
offeror. If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
negotiate with the second lowest responsive, responsible offeror, and so on;
      (2)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost with in the budgeted amount;
      (3)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of
the project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation documents; and
      (4)   The records of an offeror used in contract negotiations under this
section are not subject to public inspection until after the negotiated
contract has been awarded or the negotiation process has been terminated.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.05 OFFEROR DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   The contracting agency, in awarding a public contract, may disqualify
any person as an offeror on a contract if:
      (1)   The person does not have sufficient financial ability to perform
the contract. Evidence that the person can acquire a surety bond in the amount
and type required shall be sufficient to establish financial ability;
      (2)   The person does not have available equipment to perform the
contract;
      (3)   The person does not have key personnel of sufficient experience to
perform the contract; or
      (4)   The person has breached previous contractual obligations.
   (B)   The provisions of the Public Contracting Code regarding
disqualification of persons shall apply in addition to this section with
respect to public improvement contracts.
   (C)   A person who has been disqualified as an offeror may appeal the
disqualification in accordance with the procedures in Chapter 279C of the
Public Contracting Code.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.06 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The following procedures shall apply to the award of personal services
contracts.
      (1)   Personal service contracts for $5,000 to $10,000. Personal services
contracts involving an anticipated fee of $5,000 or more but less than $10,000
per fiscal year shall be awarded by the contracting agency following
solicitation of offers for personal services by written invitation or
advertisement in sufficient number to provide a choice for the city from among
qualified service providers. The contracting agency shall determine the
selection criteria to be included in the written invitation or advertisement
and shall have authority to negotiate and enter into the contract.
      (2)   Personal service contracts from $10,000. Personal services
contracts to which division (A)(1) above does not apply and having an
anticipated fee of $10,000 or more shall be awarded by the City Council
following solicitation of offers based on the procedure and selection criteria
adopted by the City Council before offers are solicited.
      (3)   Other contracts. Except as otherwise provided in the Public
Contracting Code, for all other personal services contracts, including
amendments to and annual renewals of existing contracts and emergencies, the
contracting agency may enter into the contract without a solicitation of
offers. A personal services contract shall not be artificially divided or
fragmented to qualify for the award procedures provided by this section.
   (B)   The following criteria shall be considered in the evaluation and
selection of a personal services contractor. This section does not preclude the
use of other additional criteria:
      (1)   Total cost to the agency for delivery of services;
      (2)   Expertise of the contractor in the area of specialty called for;
      (3)   References from successfully completed projects managed by the
contractor;
      (4)   Utilization of locally procured goods, services or personnel;
      (5)   Other services provided by the contractor not specifically listed
in the request for proposal;
      (6)   Timeliness of delivery of services; and
      (7)   Other criteria specially listed in the solicitation document on a
case by case basis.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.07 DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the authority to determine when personal
property owned by the city is surplus.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall select the method of disposal which
maximizes the value the city will realize from disposal of the surplus
property. Surplus personal property shall be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Sold to the highest qualified buyer meeting the sale terms when the
value of each item so offered is less than $2,000 and the sale has been
advertised at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the Union
area not less than one week prior to the sale;
      (2)   Traded in on the purchase of replacement equipment or supplies;
      (3)   Sold at public auction advertised at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Union area not less than one week prior to the
auction. The published notice shall specify the time, place and terms upon
which the personal property shall be offered and a general description of the
personal property to be sold;
      (4)   Sold at a fixed price retail sale if doing so will result in
substantially greater net revenue to the city; or
      (5)   Contracted for use, operation or maintenance by one or more private
or public entities. Prior to approval of such a contract, the City Council
shall determine that the contract will promote the economic development of the
city.
   (C)   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be sold as-
is without any warranty, either express or implied, of any kind.
   (D)   Sales of surplus personal property may be conducted electronically.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.08 ADOPTION OF CODES AND RULES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, public contracts
shall be awarded, administered and governed according to the Public Contracting
Code and the Model Rules, as they now exist and may be amended in the future.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between any provisions of this subchapter
and the Public Contracting Code or Model Rules, the provisions of the Public
Contracting Code or Model Rules shall prevail.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-14-2005)
FIXING REGULAR MEETING DATES; RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PROCEEDINGS
§ 30.25 REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting date of the City Council of the City of Union shall be
on the second Monday of each month, unless the Monday falls on a holiday as
that term is defined by Oregon Revised Statutes. If the second Monday falls
upon a holiday, the regular meeting of the City Council shall be held on the
next succeeding Monday. The City Council, by resolution, may change the regular
meeting date as it deems necessary. The Council shall, by resolution, establish
the time and place of the regular meeting.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.26 SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor, or, in his or
her absence or inability to act, by the President of the Council by giving 24
hours previous written notice to each member of the Council of the time of the
meeting and the purpose of same. Special meetings may also be called upon the
request of three or more members of the Council by giving 24 hours notice of
the meeting to all members of the Council then in the city. Special meetings of
the Council may also be held by common consent of all the members of the
Council.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.27 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Executive sessions may be held during regular or special meetings, so long
as appropriate statutory limitations are met.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.28 AGENDA.
   The City Administrator shall prepare an agenda of the business to be
presented at a regular Council meeting. The Council shall consider at the
meeting only matters that appear on the agenda for that meeting or the items as
are introduced by a Council member or the Mayor. Council members and the Mayor
shall endeavor to have subjects they wish considered submitted in time to be
placed on the agenda.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.29 CONSENT CALENDAR.
   In order to make more efficient use of meeting time, the Administrator shall
place all ordinances, resolutions, approvals of minutes and expenditures,
approvals of Planning Committee actions and such other matters which are
routine in nature and concerning which no debate is expected on a consent
calendar. Any item placed on the consent calendar shall be removed at the
request of the Mayor or any Council member prior to the time a vote is taken on
the consent calendar. All remaining items on the consent calendar shall be
disposed of by a single motion to adopt the consent calendar, which shall not
be debatable. Adoption of the consent calendar shall be by the affirmative vote
of all Council members present at the time the vote is taken and shall have the
same effect as a separate vote for each item. If there are dissenting votes,
each item on the consent agenda shall be voted upon separately in the usual
manner.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.30 ORDER OF BUSINESS; REGULAR MEETING.
   The order of business for each regular meeting of the Council shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Roll call and taking of attendance;
   (B)   Hearings and appointments;
   (C)   Public comments and communications;
   (D)   Old business;
   (E)   New business;
   (F)   Consent agenda;
   (G)   Reports of officers and committees;
   (H)   Suggestions for future agendas; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.31 BUSINESS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   At the special meetings of the Council, only the specified matters which
prompted the call of the meeting shall be brought up for discussion. The order
of business for special meetings shall always include provision for public
comment.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.32 ALTERING ORDER OF AGENDA.
   With consent of the Council, the Mayor may alter the order of the agenda.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.33 ORDER OF DELIBERATIONS.
   In all matters to be heard by the Council, the City Administrator may
introduce the subject, after which the Mayor will first invite those persons
and parties who are proponents of any matter to be considered by the Council to
speak thereon. Then, the opponents of the proposal will next be afforded an
opportunity to speak thereon. Then, the City Administrator or members of the
staff of the city may speak thereon or answer questions from members of the
Council or the public. Then, the members of the Council shall discuss the
matters and act thereon.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.34 RULES OF CONDUCT AND DECORUM.
   (A)   Presiding officer. The Mayor, as presiding officer, shall preserve
decorum and shall decide all points of order, subject to appeal to the Council.
   (B)   Councilors. Councilors shall preserve order and decorum during Council
meetings, and shall not, by conversation or other action, delay or interrupt
the proceedings or refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer or these
rules. Councilors shall, when addressing staff or members of the public,
confine themselves to questions or issues then under discussion, shall not
engage in personal attacks, shall not impugn the motives of any speaker and
shall at all times, while in session or otherwise, conduct themselves in a
manner appropriate to the dignity of their office.
   (C)   Staff and public. Members of the administrative staff, employees of
the city and other persons attending Council meetings shall observe the same
rules of procedure, decorum and good conduct applicable to the members of the
Council.
   (D)   Removal of any person. Any person who makes personal, impertinent,
slanderous or inappropriate remarks or who becomes boisterous while addressing
the Council or attending a Council meeting, when the behavior disrupts or
delays the meeting, may be removed from the room if the Sergeant-at-Arms is so
directed by the presiding officer. Any member of the Council may obtain the
floor and move to require enforcement of this rule; upon affirmative vote of
the majority of the Council present, the Sergeant-at-Arms shall be authorized
to remove the person or persons, as if the presiding officer so directed.
   (E)   Enforcement of decorum. The City Administrator, or such member or
members of the Union Police Department as the City Administrator shall
designate, shall serve as the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Council meetings and
shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for
the purpose of maintaining order and decorum.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 30.35 ORDINANCE PROCEDURE.
   The Council shall follow the regular procedure as set out in Chapter VIII of
the City Charter when considering and passing any and all ordinances brought
before it.
(Ord. 404, passed 7-13-1987; Ord. 482, passed 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Treasurer
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Duties
   
31.03   Funds; statements
   
31.04   Creation of funds
   
31.05   Checking system
   
31.06   Spending authority
Mayor; City Recorder; Municipal Judge
   
31.20   Mayor
   
31.21   City Recorder
   
31.22   Municipal Judge
Chief of Police; City Attorney; Street Commissioner
   
31.40   Chief of Police
   
31.41   City Attorney
   
31.42   Street Commissioner
City Administrator
   
31.60   Office created
   
31.61   Powers and duties
   
31.62   Supervision
   
31.63   Term
   
31.64   Seats at Council meetings
   
31.65   Expenditure of city funds
   
31.66   Compensation
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   The City Administrator shall be Treasurer of the City of Union. The
Treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take,
subscribe and file an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties
of his or her office, and he or she shall further, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, make and execute unto the city a bond, conditioned
that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of his or her office and will
well and truthfully account to the city for all sums coming into his or her
possession by virtue of his or her office.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 31.02 DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall be custodian of all the funds of the city and shall give
receipts to all persons who shall turn money over to the credit of the city.
The Treasurer shall keep all funds of the city in banks or trust companies as
may be designated by the Council as official depositories. It shall be the duty
of the Treasurer to keep fair, clear, distinct and separate accounts of all
funds and revenues of the city and also of all expenditures, disbursements and
investments thereof.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 31.03 FUNDS; STATEMENTS.
   The city revenues shall be divided and kept in not less than the following
separate and distinct funds: General Fund, Utility Fund, Street Fund, Emergency
Services Fund and other funds as have been established by the Council. The
Council may, by resolution, establish additional funds as the Council deems
necessary or desirable for the efficient accounting of city business. The
Treasurer shall make a monthly statement to the Council showing the receipts
and disbursements and the state of each particular fund at the close of
business as of the end of each month.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 31.04 CREATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Utility Fund shall consist of all monies collected from city water
sales and sewer assessments and all sums of money derived as revenue from the
city water and sewer systems and other sums as the Council may, by resolution,
appropriate from the General, Street or other funds, as the same may be needed.
   (B)   The Street Fund shall be created and maintained by monies raised by
special levy and shall include all sums of money derived as revenue from the
city street system and such other sums as the Council may, by resolution,
appropriate from the General, Utility or other funds, as the same may be
needed.
   (C)   The Emergency Services Fund shall consist of all monies collected from
city ambulance services and all sums of money derived as revenue from the city
ambulance service and such other sums as the Council may, by resolution,
appropriate from the General, Street or other funds, as the same may be needed.
   (D)   The General Fund shall be created and maintained and shall consist of
all revenues derived by the city from whatsoever source which shall not, by
resolution, be directed to the credit of any other regular or special fund. The
General Fund shall be available for payment of any debts or general obligations
of the city.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 31.05 CHECKING SYSTEM.
   All disbursements of money by the city from any city funds shall be by
written checks drawn upon appropriate checking accounts to be established with
an authorized banking institution. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to
enter in a book to be kept for that purpose, an abstract of all checks drawn
upon any funds of the city, showing the date, number and name of the claimants,
the amount claimed, the amount allowed thereon and from which fund to be paid.
All checks issued shall be signed by both the Treasurer and the Mayor of the
city, or their designees.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 31.06 SPENDING AUTHORITY.
   The Council shall, by resolution, adopt procedures to ensure the prompt
payment of bills.
(Ord. 488, passed 3-14-2005)
MAYOR; CITY RECORDER; MUNICIPAL JUDGE
§ 31.20 MAYOR.
   In addition to the duties and powers set out in the City Charter, the Mayor
shall see that the fiscal agents of the city attend faithfully to their duties
and keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition of the city.
He or she shall give attention to all matters affecting the finances, health,
peace and general prosperity of the city and make recommendations to the
Council thereon. At the end of his or her term of office he or she shall make
and submit to the Council a complete report showing the financial condition of
the city and such other matters of importance as he or she may deem necessary
to call to its attention.
(Ord. 213, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 403, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.21 CITY RECORDER.
   The City Recorder shall be appointed by the Mayor with prior approval of the
Council, shall serve an indefinite term, and may be removed at the pleasure of
the Council upon 30 days' written notice setting forth the reason for removal.
In addition to the duties and powers set out in the Charter for the Recorder,
the Recorder shall be ex-officio Clerk of the Council; attend all meetings of
the Council when possible; keep records of its proceedings; call the roll at
each meeting; and, upon the request of the Mayor or any member of the Council,
shall read all ordinances, resolutions, written motions, communications, bills
or other documents or papers which may be presented to the Council for
consideration. The Recorder shall countersign all checks and other writings
authorized by the Charter, the Council, or the laws of the state. He or she
shall file all papers required to be filed and shall be the legal custodian of
the same, and of the City Seal. He or she shall be responsible for maintaining
records of accounts receivable, and accounts payable, and upon direction of the
City Administrator, keep all accounts current insofar as funds are available.
He or she shall perform such other duties as the City Administrator or Council
may from time to time determine.
(Ord. 213, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 213-A, passed 12-3-1956; Ord. 213-B, passed
5-4-1959; Ord. 213-C, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 403, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.22 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The Municipal Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor, with prior approval of
the City Council, for an indefinite term, and may be removed from office by the
Council with 30 days' written notice seting forth the reasons for removal. In
addition to the powers and duties set out in the Charter for the Municipal
Judge, he or she shall keep a full and complete record of the proceedings held
before him or her, both civil and criminal, and he or she shall account to the
City Recorder and Treasurer for all costs and fines levied by him or her.
(Ord. 213, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 213-A, passed 12-3-1956; Ord. 213-B, passed
5-4-1959; Ord. 213-C, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 403, passed 7-13-1987)
CHIEF OF POLICE; CITY ATTORNEY; STREET COMMISSIONER
§ 31.40 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Chief of Police whose duty it
shall be to see that the ordinances of the city are strictly enforced. He or
she shall promptly serve all processes issued to him or her out of the
Municipal Court or coming into his or her hands from any other competent legal
authority. He or she shall exercise a careful surveillance over all vagrants,
tramps, suspicious or idle persons loitering about the city. He or she shall be
the general peace officer of the city, and as such shall arrest on complaint,
or otherwise, anyone violating the city ordinances, or laws of the state, or
anyone guilty of a breach of the peace. He or she shall be under the
supervision of the Mayor and perform other duties as the Mayor or Council may
from time to time determine.
   (B)   He or she shall give a bond for the faithful performance of his or her
duties in the sum as the Council may, by ordinance, require.
(Ord. 214, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 293, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 31.41 CITY ATTORNEY.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Attorney who shall represent the
city in all legal matters. He or she shall attend to all actions, suits and
legal proceedings in which the city may be a party or have a vital interest,
advise the Council or its members, when required, on any legal question that
may arise which involves the interests of the city, draw and prepare the city
ordinances when requested by members of the Common Council and, when requested,
furnish an opinion to city officials pertaining to the duties of their
respective offices.
(Ord. 214, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 293, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 31.42 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Street Commissioner, who shall
see that the streets and sidewalks are kept in repair and free from all
obstructions and rubbish which in any manner may affect the health, safety or
convenience of the inhabitants of the city. In performing the duties, he or she
shall first notify the abutting property owner personally, or by registered
mail, of the disrepair, obstruction or rubbish, and if the same is not remedied
within 48 hours after service of the notice to the property owner, the Street
Commissioner shall have the same corrected and the cost of the same shall
become a lien against the property.
   (B)   He or she shall superintend the building of all sidewalks ordered by
the Council and not constructed by the property owners. When ordered by the
Council, he or she shall open or improve any public street or alley and build
or erect any sidewalks or crosswalks at the expense of the city. For that
purpose, on behalf of the city, he or she may contract for the purchase of the
necessary material for the improvements or repairs, employ necessary labor and
build the same. Bills for the construction, endorsed "Correct" by the Street
Commissioner, shall be presented to the Council for payment by the parties
furnishing the material or performing the labor. He or she shall supervise and
direct the laying of all water mains or water pipes, telegraph or telephone
poles and wires upon or under the streets or alleys of the city. He or she
shall make the necessary water connections for prospective users when requested
by the Water Commissioner. He or she shall perform the other duties as the
Mayor or Council may from time to time determine.
   (C)   He or she shall give a bond for the faithful performance of his or her
duties in the sum as the Council may by ordinance require.
(Ord. 214, passed 5-21-1941; Ord. 293, passed 10-21-1974)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.60 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of City Administrator of the city of
Union, Oregon. The Administrator shall have general supervision, direction, and
control over all non-elective officers and employees of the city in the
exercise of their duties, and of the work of all city departments, other than
the office of Municipal Judge, which is specifically exempted from the
operation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.61 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Administrator shall be as follows:
   (A)   To attend all meetings of the Council, unless excused by the Council
or Mayor; to attend meetings of the individual Council committees, if requested
by the committee; and to make reports, upon request of the Council, of all the
affairs and departments of the city. The Administrator shall be directly
responsible to the City Council as an entity.
   (B)   To act as purchasing agent for all departments of the city.
   (C)   To ensure that all laws and ordinances are enforced, except the
provisions of any laws or ordinances which involve criminal violation; the
responsibility in these cases shall be the duty of the police department. To
administrator and enforce the policies, rules, procedures, and resolutions duly
adopted by the Mayor and Council, and to make such recommendations concerning
the affairs of the city as deemed desirable. The Administrator has no vote in
the deliberations of the Council.
   (D)   To be responsible for preparing the general operating budget of the
city.
   (E)   To meet with private citizens and interested groups seeking
information or bringing complaints and to attempt to resolve problems and
complaints fairly or report them to the City Counci1.
   (F)   To prepare the official agenda of the City Council meetings.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.62 SUPERVISION.
   The Administrator shall have, in exercising general charge, supervision and
control over all non-elective city employees and their work. The City Council
may, by motion, resolution, or ordinance, provide rules under which the
Administrator shall exercise general supervision. The Administrator shall
report to the Mayor and City Council, for their action only, any
recommendations for hiring and discharging employees; except that the
Administrator is granted the power to hire additional temporary employees whose
services are necessary in the event of emergency.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.63 TERM.
   The Administrator shall be appointed for an indefinite term and may be
removed at the pleasure of the Council, upon 30 days' written notice setting
forth the reasons for removal. The Administrator shall also give the City
Council 30 days' written notice of resignation from the office.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.64 SEATS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Administrator and such other officers as the Council designates shall be
entitled to sit with the Council. The Administrator may take part in all
Council discussions.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.65 EXPENDITURE OF CITY FUNDS.
   No individual member of the City Council, or the Mayor, may in any manner,
directly or indirectly, require the Administrator to undertake projects
requiring the expenditure of city funds or materials. The Administrator may
only undertake projects that fall under the parameters of his or her job
description without a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 31.66 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Administrator shall be fixed and determined by
action of the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 402, passed 7-13-1987)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Library Board
   
32.01   Membership
   
32.02   Term of office
   
32.03   Compensation limitations
   
32.04   Officers; meeting times and places
   
32.05   General powers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.20   Created
   
32.21   Membership
   
32.22   Compensation
   
32.23   Claims payments
City Planning Commission
   
32.40   Created
   
32.41   Membership
   
32.42   Terms of office; vacancies
   
32.43   Officers
   
32.44   Secretary
   
32.45   Quorum
   
32.46   Rules and regulations; special meetings
   
32.47   Staff; expenses
   
32.48   Duties and powers
   
32.49   Recommendations in writing
   
32.50   Expenditures
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Mayor shall, with City Council approval, appoint a Library Board
consisting of five members, three of which shall reside within the city limits
of Union, Oregon. In addition, one Council member or city official shall serve
as an ex-officio member of the Board.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-14-1977; Ord. 368, passed 12-12-1983)
§ 32.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Members of the Library Board at the time of enactment of this
subchapter shall hold office as follows:
      (1)   One member shall initially hold office for one year;
      (2)   One member shall initially hold office for two years;
      (3)   One member shall initially hold office for three years; and
      (4)   Two members shall initially hold office for four years.
   (B)   All terms shall commence from July 1, in the year appointed.
   (C)   Succeeding appointees shall hold office for a term of four years from
July 1 in the year of their appointment. At the expiration of the term of any
member of the Board, the Mayor, with City Council approval, shall appoint a new
member or may reappoint a member for a term of four years.
   (D)   No person shall hold appointment as a member for more than two full
consecutive terms, but any person may be appointed again to the Board after an
interval of one year.
   (E)   Any vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term as
original appointments are herein provided.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-14-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.03 COMPENSATION LIMITATIONS.
   No member of any public Library Board, or the body appointing the Board,
shall have any financial interest, either directly or indirectly, in any
contract to which the library is a party, nor shall receive a salary or any
payment for material or for services rendered the Board. Board members may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 32.04 OFFICERS; MEETING TIMES AND PLACES.
   The Board shall elect a Chairperson and other officers as it deems necessary
at its first meeting after July 1 of each year. The librarian shall serve as
Secretary of the Board and keep the books, records and minutes of its meetings.
The Board shall fix its normal meeting time and place and adopt the rules as it
deems necessary to conduct its business consistent with this subchapter.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 32.05 GENERAL POWERS.
   The Library Board shall:
   (A)   Assist the City Council and City Administrator in the selection of the
librarian and staff, make recommendations as to their compensation, working
conditions and prescribe their duties;
   (B)   Consult with and advise the librarian, City Administrator and City
Council on all matters affecting operational policy of the library and use of
the buildings and grounds;
   (C)   Prepare and submit an annual budget request to the City Administrator
and Budget Committee;
   (D)   Accept and expend any real or personal property or funds donated to
the library in accordance with the terms of the donation. All other funds or
property shall be administered by the City of Union;
   (E)   Shall make recommendations to the City Council in the selection of
future sites for libraries, library facilities and all matters pertaining to
the maintenance and improvement of the city library;
   (F)   Shall not enter into any contract without prior approval of the City
Council;
   (G)   Will submit an annual report of operations to the City Council and the
Oregon State Library; and
   (H)   Perform other related duties as requested by the City Administrator or
the City Council.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-14-1977)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 CREATED.
   The City Council of the City of Union is hereby authorized to organize and
maintain a volunteer Fire Department for the purpose of protection of life and
property from destruction by fire, to be known as the Union Volunteer Fire
Department and to acquire fire-fighting equipment so as to reasonably provide
the protection and to promulgate the rules as the City Council may deem
advisable for its government.
(Ord. 297, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 32.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief and an adequate number of
officers and firefighters to efficiently combat fires and operate fire-fighting
equipment.
(Ord. 297, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 32.22 COMPENSATION.
   The volunteer Fire Department shall be paid for its services by the tenth of
the month following the date the services were rendered at a rate mutually
agreed upon by the Council and the Fire Department, but not to exceed $4,000 in
any one fiscal year.
(Ord. 297, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 32.23 CLAIMS PAYMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or his or her designate to approve
all claims for services and turn the claims over to the City Recorder on or
before the fifth of the month following the month of service. Approved claims
shall be paid in the same manner as other claims against the City of Union are
paid.
(Ord. 297, passed 10-21-1974)
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.40 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a City Planning Commission (hereinafter referred to
as "the Commission") for the City of Union, Oregon.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.41 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission of the City of Union shall consist of seven
members to be appointed by the Mayor, not more than two of whom shall be
nonresidents of the City of Union.
   (B)   Not more than two members of the Planning Commission may be city
officers, who shall serve as ex-officio members.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966; Ord. 344, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 32.42 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   At the first meeting of the Commission, the seven appointed members shall
choose their term of office by lot as follows: one to serve until the regular
Council meeting of January 1968, two to serve until the regular Council meeting
of January 1969 and two to serve until the regular Council meeting of January
1970. Their successors shall hold office for four years. Any vacancy shall be
filled by appointment of the Mayor for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.43 OFFICERS.
   The Commission, at its first meeting, shall elect a President and a Vice-
President who shall be members appointed by the Mayor and who shall thereafter
hold office during the pleasure of the Commission.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.44 SECRETARY.
   The Commission shall elect a Secretary who need not be a member of the
Commission. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all Commission
proceedings. The Commission shall, on December 1 of each year, make and file
with the City Recorder a report of all its transactions.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.45 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. At least three
members appointed by the Mayor shall at all times constitute a part of the
quorum.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966; Ord. 344, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 32.46 RULES AND REGULATIONS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission may make and alter rules and regulations for its
government and procedure consistent with the laws of this state and with the
City Charter and city ordinances.
   (B)   It shall meet at the times and at the places as may be fixed by the
Commission or as is requested by the City Council. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the President or by three members by written notice
served upon each member of the Commission at least three hours before the time
specified for the proposed meeting.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.47 STAFF; EXPENSES.
   The Commission may employ consulting advice on municipal problems, a
Secretary and the Clerks as may be necessary and pay for their services and for
the other expenses as the Commission may lawfully incur, including the
necessary disbursements incurred by its members in the performance of their
duties as members of the Commission, as authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.48 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Commission shall have all the powers which are now or hereafter granted
to it by the ordinances of this city or by general laws of the State of Oregon.
The Commission shall control the subdivision of land and may make
recommendations to the City Council, to public officials and to individuals
regarding land use, location of thoroughfares and streets, public buildings,
parks and other public facilities and regarding any other matter relating to
the planning and development of the city and the surrounding area. The
Commission may make studies, hold hearings and prepare reports and
recommendations on its own initiative or at the request of the City Council.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.49 RECOMMENDATIONS IN WRITING.
   All recommendations and suggestions made to the City Council by the
Commission shall be in writing.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
§ 32.50 EXPENDITURES.
   The Commission shall have no authority to make expenditures on behalf of the
city, or to obligate the city for the payment of any sums of money, except as
herein provided, and then only after the City Council shall have first
authorized the expenditures by appropriate ordinance (or resolution), which
ordinance (or resolution) shall provide the administrative methods by which the
funds shall be drawn and expended.
(Ord. 259, passed 4-11-1966)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Prohibiting the improper use of 9-1-1
   
33.02   Succession of emergency authority and declaring an emergency
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 PROHIBITING THE IMPROPER USE OF 9-1-1.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to reduce abuse and deliberate
misuse of the 9-1-1 emergency telephone system and to ensure the availability
of 9-1-1 and other emergency telephone lines for the reporting of true
emergencies, so that personnel and equipment may be available for use in true
emergency situations.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context inculcates or requires a different
meaning.
      9-1-1. A three-digit telephone number assigned for use by the public in
reporting an emergency situation or summoning emergency assistance from a
public safety agency.
      AUTOMATIC DIALING AND ANNOUNCING DEVICE. An electronically- or
mechanically-operated instrument which automatically dials telephone numbers it
has been programmed to dial and which plays a prerecorded message when
answered.
      AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE. An electronically- or mechanically-operated
instrument that automatically signals or sends by any means (including direct
or indirect connection to regular telephone lines) pictures, sound, odor or a
prerecorded message, either by voice or other alarm, from a protected premises
upon receipt of a stimulus from a sensory detection apparatus. AUTOMATIC
PROTECTION DEVICES include any audible alarm or light signaling device attached
to the interior or exterior of a protected premises.
      EMERGENCY. Any situation which involves an immediate threat to property
or person.
      INTENTIONALLY. Is defined in O.R.S. 161.085.
      PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. Any sheriff, police, fire or emergency medical
entity operating within Union County.
   (C)   Improper use. No person shall make improper use of emergency telephone
system by:
      (1)   Knowingly or intentionally dialing the 9-1-1 number for any purpose
other than to report an event which the caller reasonably believes to be an
emergency;
      (2)   Knowingly or intentionally programming and activating an automatic
dialing and announcing device or an automatic protection device which results
in the transmission of a prerecorded message to a public safety agency via 9-1-
1; and
      (3)   Knowingly allowing telephone equipment to be used in violation of
divisions (C)(1) and (2) above.
(Ord. 425, passed 1-14-1991) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 SUCCESSION OF EMERGENCY AUTHORITY AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Vesting of authority; order. In civil defense or other emergency
matters requiring immediate action in behalf of the City of Union, authority to
so act shall vest in the following officials in the following order:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   President of the Council;
      (3)   Chairperson of Police Committee;
      (4)   Chairperson of Fire Department and Ambulance Finance Committee;
      (5)   Public Relations Committee;
      (6)   Street Committee; and
      (7)   Water and Sewer Committee.
   (B)   Succession. In the event that the Mayor is unavailable in any
emergency or civil defense matter, then the next available city official, in
the order specified in division (A) above, shall succeed to the powers and
duties of the Mayor in taking the required emergency action.
(Ord. 278, passed 12-8-1969)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Improper use of 9-1-1. Improper use of 9-1-1 is a Class A infraction
and is punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500. A separate
infraction is deemed to occur on each calendar day the infraction continues to
exist and a separate citation may be filed for each infraction.
(Ord. 425, passed 1-14-1991)
CHAPTER 34: TRIALS AND ELECTIONS
Section
Right of Trial by Jury
   
34.01   Right to trial by jury
   
34.02   Number of jurors
   
34.03   Qualification of jurors
   
34.04   Jury list
   
34.05   Jury box
   
34.06   Selection of jury
   
34.07   Summoning the jury
   
34.08   Challenges
   
34.09   Conduct of trials
   
34.10   Verdicts
   
34.11   Payment of jurors
   
34.12   Costs and disbursements
   
34.13   Penalty for failure of juror to appear
City Elections
   
34.30   Election procedure
   
34.31   Candidates' declaration of intention
   
34.32   Special elections
RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY
§ 34.01 RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
   No person charged with a violation defined and made punishable by the City
Charter or any ordinance of the City of Union shall have the right to trial by
jury unless the such is required by state law, the Oregon Constitution or the
Constitution of the United States of America. In the event that a person
charged has a right to trial by jury, the court shall so inform the person
charged and advise of the requirements of this section for the exercise of that
right. Absent good cause being shown to the Municipal Judge, the right to a
jury shall be deemed waived unless the person charged gives written notice of
the desire for a jury to the Municipal Court at least 30 calendar days prior to
the trial date set by the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 294, passed 10-21-1974; Ord. 498, passed 12-
12-2005)
§ 34.02 NUMBER OF JURORS.
   The jury shall consist of six persons duly sworn to try the cause for which
they are called, and the jurors shall be selected as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.03 QUALIFICATION OF JURORS.
   In order to act as a juror in the Municipal Court of the City of Union,
Oregon, a person must have the qualifications prescribed in O.R.S. Chapter 10
and, in addition thereto, must be an inhabitant and registered voter within the
City of Union at the time when he or she is summoned.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.04 JURY LIST.
   Upon passage of this subchapter, and on the first Monday in January of each
year hereafter, the Municipal Judge of the City of Union, together with the
City Recorder and Mayor, shall meet and make a list containing the names of not
less than 50 persons who are the most competent of the permanent citizens of
the city by selecting names by lot from the voters registration list used at
the last preceding city election. The list, so selected, shall be known as a
preliminary jury list. The Municipal Judge, Recorder and Mayor shall then
delete from the preliminary jury list the names of those persons known not to
be qualified by law to serve as jurors, and the remaining shall constitute the
jury list. The jury list shall contain the Christian name and the surname,
place of residence and occupation of each person named therein and shall be
certified by the City Recorder and placed on file in his or her office within
ten days from the time it is prepared. If, for any reason, the making of a jury
list is omitted and neglected on the first Monday in January of any year, it
may be done on the first Monday of any month following, to serve until the
close of the year.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.05 JURY BOX.
   (A)   The Recorder shall keep in his or her office a sufficient box,
carefully secured, which is known as the jury box.
   (B)   After he or she has filed the jury list in his or her office, the
Recorder shall prepare and deposit in the box separate ballots containing the
name, place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the jury
list, and folded as nearly alike as practicable so that the name cannot be
seen.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.06 SELECTION OF JURY.
   (A)   When a jury trial is demanded in the Municipal Court of the City of
Union, the Municipal Judge, no later than two weeks before trial, shall draw
from the jury box, in the presence of the defendant or his or her attorney and
the City Attorney, 14 ballots containing the names of individuals who are
deemed able to attend at the time and place required. The Municipal Judge shall
make and sign a list of the 14 names thus drawn. If it appears to the Municipal
Judge that a person whose name is drawn is deceased or resides outside the
city, the ballot must be destroyed. If it appears to the Municipal Judge, or he
or she has good reason to believe, that a person whose name is drawn is
temporarily absent from the city or is unwell or so engaged as to be unable to
attend at the time and place required without great inconvenience, the ballot
must be laid aside, without the name thereon being entered on the list drawn,
and returned to the jury box when the drawing is completed.
   (B)   When the aforesaid list of 14 names is completed, the city, and the
defendant, by his or her representatives, may select a jury by each striking
from the list three names alternately, commencing with the defendant. Either
party may waive his or her right to be present. The remaining eight names shall
be summoned as jurors in the cause. If more than eight names remain after the
striking process, or if a party waives his or her right to be present to strike
from the list, then the first eight names remaining unchallenged shall be
summoned as jurors.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 348, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 34.07 SUMMONING THE JURY.
   (A)   The names of the eight jurors selected as provided in the preceding
section shall be inserted in an order to summon a jury.
   (B)   The order shall require each juror to appear before the Municipal
Judge at the time set for the trial of the cause.
   (C)   The Municipal Judge shall sign and transmit this order to the Chief of
Police.
   (D)   The Chief of Police or his or her delegate shall summon the eight
persons so drawn and listed to serve as jurors by notifying them either by
regular mail or by telephone.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall certify to the Municipal Judge that these
individuals have been served, and the method and date of service.
   (F)   If any of those eight persons are unable, for good cause shown, to
serve as jurors, the Municipal Judge shall draw another name from the jury box
to replace that person.
   (G)   Summons shall be in the same fashion as set forth above.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 348, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 34.08 CHALLENGES.
   At the time of trial, six persons shall be drawn to constitute the jury for
trial of the cause then pending before the Municipal Court. Neither party shall
be entitled to a peremptory challenge as to any six jurors, but if any of the
six jurors is found to be disqualified by challenge for cause, his or her place
on the jury shall be filled by drawing one of the remaining persons summoned to
jury duty.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 348, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 34.09 CONDUCT OF TRIALS.
   Trials shall be conducted as trials in justice courts, and the rules of
evidence shall be the same as in state courts and shall include applicable
statutes of the State of Oregon regarding the introduction or admission of
evidence.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.10 VERDICTS.
   All six of the jurors sworn to try the cause must concur to render a
verdict.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 294, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 34.11 PAYMENT OF JURORS.
   Those jurors notified and who appear at trial shall receive compensation
from the City of Union in the amount of $5 for each day of attendance upon the
Municipal Court.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
§ 34.12 COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   In all cases tried in the Municipal Court, the Municipal Judge shall add the
costs and disbursements to the fine, penalty or sentence imposed in a sum not
less than $5.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 294, passed 10-21-1974)
§ 34.13 PENALTY FOR FAILURE OF JUROR TO APPEAR.
   Any person notified to appear and serve as juror and who shall disregard the
notice and fail to appear may be adjudged in contempt of court by the Municipal
Judge and be fined a sum not exceeding $15.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-8-1960)
CITY ELECTIONS
§ 34.30 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   All city elections shall be held in accordance with the City Charter and the
laws of the State of Oregon.
(Ord. 217, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 34.31 CANDIDATES' DECLARATION OF INTENTION.
   (A)   Any qualified elector of the City of Union shall be entitled to run
for the Office of Mayor or the Office of Councilperson; provided, however, that
not later than 15 days before the date of the election, the candidate shall
file with the City Recorder a declaration of his or her intention to run for
either the Office of Mayor or that of Councilperson.
   (B)   Any candidate for the Office of Mayor or Councilperson may, upon
written request, withdraw his or her candidacy, provided the request is filed
with the Recorder at least 15 days prior to the date of the election. The
candidate receiving the highest number of votes for the Office of Mayor shall
be declared elected to that office, and the three candidates receiving the
three highest votes for the Office of Councilperson shall be declared elected
to that office.
(Ord. 217, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 34.32 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution or ordinance, call and provide for special
elections and shall call special elections on ordinances or Charter amendments
when proposed by initiative or referendum petition; provided, that no special
election shall be called less than 90 days before any regular or primary
election.
(Ord. 217, passed 5-19-1941)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL VIOLATION PROCEDURES
Section
   
35.01   Pretrial proceedings
   
35.02   Trials
 
   
35.99   General penalty
§ 35.01 PRETRIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Municipal Court and the Judge thereof shall have jurisdiction over
all violations of city ordinances. This requirement shall not be interpreted as
preventing the City of Union from contracting with another public body for
judicial services by a judge thereof, nor from citing any person into the
Circuit Court of the State of Oregon when the offence to be charged is a
violation of state law.
   (B)   Persons to be charged with a violation of an ordinance of the City of
Union shall not be arrested, but shall be summoned to appear before the
Municipal Judge by means of a summons, complaint, citation, or a combination
thereof. The Municipal Judge shall have the authority by rule to determine the
requirements of the form and content of documents used to charge violations.
Absent adoption of rules by the Court, such documents shall at a minimum comply
with due process.
   (C)   The only answers to documents charging a violation shall be an
admission, a denial, or an answer of "no contest." A denial shall be deemed to
controvert every material allegation in the complaint, citation, or summons.
   (D)   Motions, answers, and pleas to documents charging a violation shall be
made either orally in open court or in writing, according to rules of
procedures as may be set by the Municipal Judge.
   (E)   Upon an answer of "no contest" or admission to a complaint charging an
infraction, the Court shall render judgment against the respondent. Upon an
answer of denial, the Court shall set the case for trial without a jury, unless
the person charged is entitled to a jury pursuant to §§
34.01 through
34.13, as amended by this chapter.
   (F)   In lieu of a personal appearance and answer, the person charged with a
violation may file with the Court a written waiver of appearance and forfeiture
accompanied by a deposit of the scheduled forfeiture as provided for in §
35.99(F). In addition, the person may file with the waiver a written
explanation of the circumstances of the infraction. The Municipal Judge may,
after any further investigation the Judge deems necessary to verify the
respondent's explanation, reduce all or a portion of the scheduled forfeiture
and refund any balance to the person charged.
   (G)   The Municipal Court, or an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Oregon, shall have the power to issue summons for the appearance of
witnesses in Municipal Court. It shall be the duty of all persons duly
subpoenaed in any cause pending in the Municipal Court to attend such Court and
testify in accordance with the requirements of such subpoena.
   (H)   Any witness who shall refuse to attend the Municipal Court or to
testify as required by the preceding division (G) shall be deemed and held to
be guilty of contempt of Court, and such court, in case of such refusal, shall
have authority to issue a warrant for the arrest of any person so refusing and,
on the persons being brought before the Court on such warrant, unless the
person shall purge himself or herself of such contempt by showing his or her
inability to attend and testify as required by the subpoena served on him or
her, the Court shall summarily impose upon the person a fine not exceeding
$100.
   (I)   The laws of the State of Oregon governing the payment of witnesses in
Justice Court shall be and they are hereby adopted in their entirety for the
Municipal Court as to the per diem payment and per mileage payment.
(Ord. 498, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 35.02 TRIALS.
   Trials in Municipal Court shall be in accordance with procedural rules as
may be adopted by the Municipal Court Judge, though the Judge is not required
to adopt procedural rules, and shall generally proceed as follows:
   (A)   If a defendant is entitled to a jury, after the jury is selected and
sworn, the Court shall instruct the jury concerning its duties, its conduct,
and the order of proceedings.
   (B)   The city shall then concisely state the plaintiff’s case and the
issues to be tried; the defendant then, in like manner, shall state defendant's
case.
   (C)   The city shall introduce the evidence on plaintiff’s case in chief,
and when plaintiff has concluded, the defendant shall do likewise.
   (D)   The parties respectively may introduce rebutting evidence only, unless
a court in furtherance of justice permits them to introduce new evidence.
   (E)   When the evidence is concluded, both sides shall commence and conclude
the argument to the court, find jury if applicable. The city shall have the
right to reply to the argument of the defendant.
   (F)   If a jury has been empaneled, after the evidence is concluded and the
parties have argued their cases, the Court shall instruct the jury.
(Ord. 498, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 35.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever pursuant to any other ordinance of the City of Union any act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing
of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful or
an offense, the violation shall be classified as a "violation" and shall be
punished as provided in this section, notwithstanding any provision of any
other existing ordinance of the city. The penalties of this section shall apply
to any violation occurring on or after the effective date hereof unless the
violation is of an ordinance that is adopted after the effective date hereof
which expressly provides a different penalty.
   (B)   The maximum penalty for a violation shall be an amount not exceeding
$500. However, this penalty shall be in addition to any assessment or fine
which may be required to be imposed, such as, but not limited to, the unitary
assessment described in O.R.S. 137.290 (2003), the county assessment referred
to in O.R.S. 137.309 (2003), or any other fine or assessment which may be
imposed by force of law in addition to those imposed by an ordinance of the
city.
   (C)   There shall be no sentence of any imprisonment for any violation.
   (D)   Every day any violation of an ordinance of the city shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   For the purposes of facilitating dispositions of violations, the
Municipal Judge may promulgate a schedule of forfeitures plus any required
assessments or fines for particular infractions, and the person charged with
such an infraction may deposit with the Court the amounts so scheduled, waive
further appearance, and have the sum so deposited forfeited as on a plea of "no
contest." The Court shall not, however, be bound by the schedule on appearance
and admission by the person charged, or on trial and judgment against the
person charged; the Court in such a case may impose any forfeiture allowed by
this section.
   (G)   This section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting or limiting the
city's right to abate, enjoin, or alleviate an ordinance violation when such
power is given to the city by ordinance or common law.
(Ord. 498, passed 12-12-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
System Development Charges for Water, Wastewater, Streets, Flood Control and
Parks
   
50.001   Short title
   
50.002   Purpose
   
50.003   Scope
   
50.004   Definitions
   
50.005   Systems development charge established
   
50.006   Methodology
   
50.007   Authorized expenditures
   
50.008   Expenditure restrictions
   
50.009   Improvement plan
   
50.010   Collection of charge
   
50.011   Delinquent charges; hearing
   
50.012   Installment payments
   
50.013   Exemptions
   
50.014   Credits
   
50.015   Segregation and use of revenue; annual accounting
   
50.016   Review procedures
Cross-Connection Control; Requirements
   
50.030   Authority
   
50.031   Definitions
   
50.032   Cross-connection prohibited
   
50.033   When backflow prevention devices required
   
50.034   Type of backflow assembly required
   
50.035   Devices approved by Oregon DHS
   
50.036   Responsibility
   
50.037   Installation at customer’s expense
   
50.038   Ownership of backflow prevention assembly
   
50.039   Backflow prevention device testing
   
50.040   Existing assemblies
   
50.041   Repairs
   
50.042   Access
   
50.043   Mobile systems
   
50.044   Discontinuance of service for noncompliance
Rules and Regulations for the Conduct and Operation of the Water System
   
50.060   Short title
   
50.061   Scope
   
50.062   Definitions
   
50.063   Service area
   
50.064   Description of service
   
50.065   Application for service
   
50.066   Main extensions
   
50.067   Services
   
50.068   Meters
   
50.069   Notices
   
50.070   Billing and payment
   
50.071   Meter error
   
50.072   Discontinuance of service
   
50.073   Restoration of service
   
50.074   Unusual demands
   
50.075   Access to property
   
50.076   Responsibility for equipment
   
50.077   Fire hydrants
   
50.078   Suspension of rules
   
50.079   Easement
 
   
50.999   Penalty
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES FOR WATER, WASTEWATER,
STREETS, FLOOD CONTROL AND PARKS
§ 50.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the “Systems Development Charge
Enabling Ordinance”.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the system development charge is to impose a portion of the
cost of capital improvements for water, wastewater, streets, flood control and
parks upon those developments and redevelopments that create the need for, or
increase the demands on capital improvements.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.003 SCOPE.
   The system development charge imposed by this subchapter is separate from
and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge or fee otherwise
provided by law or imposed as a condition of development.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   Facilities or assets used for:
         (a)   Water supply, treatment and distribution;
         (b)   Waste water collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
         (c)   Drainage and flood control;
         (d)   Transportation; or
         (e)   Parks and recreation.
      (2)   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT does not include costs of the operation or
routine maintenance of a capital improvement.
   DEVELOPMENT. The change in character, occupancy or use of land or buildings;
including redevelopment and demolishing a building for the conversion of the
property to a different use.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
50.005.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane, with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or for a public scenic or preservation purpose.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title, or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded land sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of
record in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied
or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes
the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision or other
development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A capital improvement that is required as a
condition of development approval, identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
50.009; and either:
      (1)   Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of the
development approval; or
      (2)   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with
greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
already constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted
pursuant to this section, for which the Council determines capacity exists.
   SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of a
capital improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit or
building permit, or at the time of connection to the capital improvement.
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE includes that portion of a sewer or water system
connection charge that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse the
city for its average cost of inspecting and installing connections with sewer
and water facilities. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed
or collected as part of a local improvement district assessment, a charge in
lieu of a local improvement district assessment or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision, expedited land
division or limited land use decision.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.005 SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this subchapter or
other local or state law, a system development charge is hereby imposed upon
all development within the city, upon the act of connecting to the city sewer
or water system within the city and upon all development outside the boundary
of the city that connect to or otherwise uses the sewer, water or storm sewer
facilities of the city.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.006 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish or modify a reimbursement fee shall
consider the cost of the then-existing facilities, prior contributions by then-
existing users, gifts or grants from federal or state government or private
persons, the value of unused capacity available to future system users, rate-
making principals employed to finance publicly owned capital improvements and
other relevant factors identified by the Council. The methodology for
establishing or modifying a reimbursement fee shall promote the objective that
future system users shall contribute no more than an equitable share of the
cost of then-existing facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish or modify an improvement fee shall
consider the cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the
capacity of the system, the need for increased capacity required to serve
future users and be calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for
the projected need for available system capacity for future users.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish or modify an improvement fee or a
reimbursement fee, or both, shall be contained in a resolution adopted by the
Council.
   (D)   The methodology used to establish or modify an improvement fee or a
reimbursement fee shall not:
      (1)   Include or incorporate a method or system under which the payment
of the fee or the amount of the fee is determined by the number of employees of
an employer without regard to new construction, new development or new use of
an existing structure by the employer;
      (2)   Include or incorporate any method or system under which the payment
of the fee or the amount of the fee is based on the number of individuals hired
by the employer after a specified date; or
      (3)   Assume that costs are necessarily incurred for capital improvements
when an employer hires an additional employee.
   (E)   All methodology for establishing or modifying reimbursement or
improvement fees shall be available for public inspection.
   (F)   A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is
not a modification of the system development charge if the change in amount is
based on a change in the cost of materials, labor or real property applied to
the projects or project capacity as set forth in the plan adopted pursuant to §
50.008, or the periodic application of one or more specific cost indexes or
other periodic data sources.
   (G)   A specific cost index or periodic data source must be:
      (1)   A relevant measurement of the average change in prices or costs
over an identified time period for materials, labor, real property or a
combination of the three;
      (2)   Published by a recognized organization or agency that produces the
index or data source for reasons that are independent of the system development
charge methodology; and
      (3)   Incorporated as part of the established methodology or identified
and adopted in a separate city resolution or order.
   (H)   A combination of a reimbursement fee and an improvement fee may be
imposed, if the methodology demonstrates that the charge is not based upon
providing the same system capacity.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.007 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the systems for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to the repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity-increasing capital
improvements, including expenditures relating to the repayment of debt for the
improvements. An increase in system capacity occurs if a capital improvement
increases the level of performance or service provided by existing facilities
or provides new facilities. The portion of the capital improvements funded by
improvement fees must be related to the need for increased capacity to provide
service for future users.
   (C)   A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from an improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
50.009.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, system development charge
revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions
of this subchapter, including the costs of developing system development charge
methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system development charge
expenditures.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.008 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs associated
with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an
incidental part of other capital improvements.
   (B)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs of the
operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.009 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   Prior to the establishment of a system development charge by resolution, the
Council shall adopt a plan that:
   (A)   Lists the capital improvements that may be funded with improvement fee
revenues, including the estimated cost and time of construction of each
improvement, and the estimated percentage of costs eligible to be funded with
revenues from improvement fees for each improvement; and
   (B)   Describes the process for modifying the plan. The Council may modify
the plan and list at any time. If a system development charge will be increased
by a proposed modification of the list to include a capacity increasing capital
improvement, as referenced in §
50.007(B), the city shall provide at least 30 days’ notice of the proposed plan
modification to persons who have requested written notice under §
50.016(B). A hearing on the proposed plan modifications will be held if the
city receives a written request for such a hearing within seven days of the
date the proposed modification is scheduled for adoption. If no such request is
received within this time period, a hearing is not required but may be held in
the Council’s sole discretion.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.010 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The system development charge is payable upon annexation or issuance
of a building permit, a development permit, a development permit for
development not requiring the issuance of a building permit, a permit or
approval to connect to the water or sewer system or a right-of-way access
permit.
   (B)   If no building, development or connection permit is required, the
system development charge is payable at the time the usage of the capital
improvement is increased based on changes in the use of the property.
   (C)   The applicant for a connection permit shall be required to state in
writing the intended use of the building in sufficient detail to enable the
city to determine the appropriate category of use. If the use of a building
changes or if the stated use is incorrect, the occupant shall report the change
of use to the city within 30 days and promptly pay any additional system
development charges. If the occupant fails to report a correct statement of use
or a change of use within 30 days or fails to pay the additional system
development charge within ten days after invoice, the occupant shall pay a
penalty of 10% of the balance due plus interest on the unpaid balance at the
rate of 1.5% per month.
   (D)   The city shall not issue the permit or allow connection until the
charge has been paid in full, provision for installment payments has been made
pursuant to §
50.012, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
50.013.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.011 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARING.
   (A)   When, for any reason, a system development charge has not been paid,
the City Administrator shall report to the Council the amount of the
uncollected charge, the description of the real property to which the charge is
attributable, the date upon which the charge was due and the name of the owner.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a public hearing on the matter and direct
that notice of the hearing be given to each owner with a copy of the City
Administrator’s report concerning the unpaid charge. Notice of the hearing
shall be given either personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by both personal and mailed notice, and by posting notice on the
parcel at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council may accept, reject or modify the
determination of the City Administrator as set forth in the report. If the
Council finds that a system development charge is unpaid and uncollected, the
City Recorder shall docket the unpaid and uncollected system development charge
in the city lien docket. Upon completion of the docketing, the city shall have
a lien against the described land for the full amount of the unpaid charge,
together with interest at the legal rate of 10% and with the city’s actual cost
of serving notice of the hearing on the owners. The lien shall be enforceable
in the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.012 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of the parcel of land subject to a system development charge
of over $10,000 may apply for payment in installments, to include interest at
the legal rate of 10% on the unpaid balance, in accordance with O.R.S. 223.208.
Payment may be over a period of less than ten years, if so elected by the
property owner. Otherwise, system development charges are payable over a period
of ten years, in accordance with the terms as set by the city.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall provide application forms for installment
payments, which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of
the lien, except for the correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the property interest of the applicant is adequate to
secure payment of the lien.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall report to the City Recorder the amount of
the system development charge, the dates on which payments are due, the name of
the owner and the description of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall docket the lien in the lien docket. From that
time, the city shall have a lien upon the described parcel for the amount of
the system development charge, together with interest on the unpaid balance at
the rate established by the Council. The lien shall be enforceable in the
manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (F)   Upon written request of the City Administrator, the City Recorder is
authorized to cancel assessments of system development charges, without further
Council action, where the new development approved by the building permit is
not constructed and the building permit is cancelled.
   (G)   For property that has been subject to a cancellation of assessed
system development charges, any future installment payment contract shall be
subject to the code provisions applicable to system development charges and
installment payment contracts on file on the date the new contract is received
by the city.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.013 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Structures and uses established and legally existing on or before
April 10, 2006, are exempt from a system development charge, to the extent of
the structure or use then existing and to the extent of the parcel of land as
it is constituted on that date. This exemption shall not affect the
responsibility to pay water and sewer rates, which are due and payable pursuant
to other provisions of the City of Union Code.
   (B)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform Building Code, are
exempt from all portions of the system development charge.
   (C)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel’s or structure’s use of the public improvement facility are
exempt from all portions of the system development charge.
   (D)   Municipal projects are exempt from all system development charges.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 544, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 50.014 CREDITS.
   (A)   A system development charge shall be imposed when a change of use of a
parcel or structure occurs, but credit shall be given for the computed system
development charge to the extent that prior structures existed and services
were established on or before the effective date of this subchapter. The credit
so computed shall not exceed the calculated system development charge. No
refund shall be made on account of the credit.
   (B)   A credit shall also be given for construction of a qualified public
improvement, upon acceptance by the city of that public improvement. The credit
shall be only for the improvement fee charged for the type of improvement being
constructed, and may be granted only for the cost of that portion of the
improvement that exceeds the city’s minimum standard facility size or capacity
needed to serve that particular development project or property. The applicant
shall have the burden of demonstrating that a particular improvement qualifies
for credit under this section.
   (C)   The city may deny a credit if it demonstrates that the application is
not for a qualified public improvement, as defined in this subchapter, or by
showing that the improvement for which credit is sought is not included in the
plan adopted pursuant to §
50.008.
   (D)   When the construction of a qualified public improvement gives rise to
a credit amount greater than the improvement fee that would otherwise be levied
against the project receiving development approval, the excess credit may be
applied against improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the
original development project. However, this section shall not prohibit the city
from providing a greater credit, establishing a system providing for the
transferability of credits, providing a credit for a capital improvement not
identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
50.008, or from providing a share of the cost of the improvement by other
means, if the city so chooses.
   (E)   Credit shall be used within ten years from the date the credit is
given.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.015 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE; ANNUAL ACCOUNTING.
   All funds derived from a particular type of system development charge are to
be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city. The
system development charge calculated and collected shall be used for no purpose
other than those set forth in §
50.007. The city shall provide an annual accounting to be completed by January
1 of each year for system development charges showing the total amount of
system development charge revenues collected for each system and the projects
that were funded in the previous fiscal year. The city shall include in the
annual accounting a list of the amounts spent on each project funded, in whole
or in part, with system development charge revenues, and the amount of revenue
collected by the city from system development charges and attributed to the
cost of complying with the provisions of this subchapter, including the costs
of developing system development charge methodologies and providing annual
accountings.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 50.016 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Expenditure review.
      (1)   Any citizen or other interested person may challenge an expenditure
of system development charge revenues by filing a written complaint with the
city describing with particularity the decision of the city and the expenditure
which the person challenges. The challenges must be filed within two years of
the expenditure of the system development charge revenues.
      (2)   A hearing shall be held by the Council within 60 days of the filing
of the complaint. After providing notice to the challenger, the Council shall
determine whether the expenditure was in accordance with this subchapter and
the applicable Oregon Revised Statutes, and may affirm, modify or overrule the
decision. If the Council determines that there has been an improper expenditure
of system development charge revenues, the Council shall direct that a sum
equal to the misspent amount be deposited within one year to the credit of the
account or fund from which it was spent.
      (3)   The decision of the Council shall be judicially reviewed only as
provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100.
   (B)   Methodology review.
      (1)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made written
requests for notification prior to adoption or amendment of a methodology for
any system development charge. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the
list at least 90 days prior to the first hearing to establish or modify a
system development charge, and the methodology supporting the system
development charge shall be available at least 60 days prior to the first
hearing. The failure of a person on the list to receive a notice that was
mailed does not invalidate the action of the city.
      (2)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but, at least
30 days prior to removing a name from the list, must notify the person whose
name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification is required
if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
      (3)   Legal action intended to contest the methodology used for
calculating a system development charge may not be filed after 60 days
following adoption or modification of the system development charge resolution
by the city. Persons shall request judicial review of the methodology used for
calculating a system development charge only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to
34.100.
   (C)   Other review.
      (1)   Challenges of any other decisions required or permitted to be made
by the city under this subchapter or associated resolutions including, but not
limited to, objections to the calculation of a system development charge or a
decision to increase a system development charge by modifying the improvement
plan must be filed in writing with the city office within 20 days of the date
of the decision. The complaint must describe with particularity the city
decision being challenged.
      (2)   A hearing shall be held by the Council within 60 days of the filing
of the complaint. After providing notice to the complainant, the Council shall
determine whether the decision challenged is in accordance with this subchapter
and the applicable Oregon Revised Statutes, and may affirm, modify or overrule
the decision.
      (3)   The Council must advise a person making written objection to a
system development charge calculation of the review procedures provided by this
section, and the right to petition for review pursuant to O.R.S. 34.010 to
34.100.
      (4)   A decision to increase a system development charge by modifying the
plan adopted pursuant to §
50.008 may be judicially reviewed only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100.
(Ord. 500, passed 4-10-2006)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL; REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.030 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, the Oregon Drinking
Water Quality Act of 1981 and Chapter 333, Division 61 of the Oregon
Administrative Rules, it is the responsibility of the City of Union to protect
its drinking water by instituting and enforcing a cross-connection program, and
by adopting this subchapter under the authority of O.R.S. Chapter 448.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water or waste to
a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor or other assembly and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. These vertical, physical separations must be at least twice the
diameter of the water supply outlet, never less than one inch (25 cm).
   APPROVED. Accepted by the authority responsible as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this subchapter or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (AVB). A device consisting of an air inlet valve
or float check, a check seat and air inlet port(s). This device is designed to
protect against a non-health hazard or a health hazard under a backsiphonage
condition only.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s approved water supply. AUXILIARY WATERS may include water
from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source(s),
such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor and so forth, used waters or
industrial fluids. These waters may be contaminated or polluted, or they may be
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the city
does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water distribution
system as a result of a cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW DEVICE INSTALLER. A person who is a plumber, an irrigation
installer or a pipe fitter all licensed by the State of Oregon or a private
homeowner doing work on his or her own property. All installers are required to
buy a plumbing permit through the State of Oregon Buildings Code Division and
to also obtain a permit from the City of Union in order to perform the work.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly, device or means designed to prevent
backflow.
   BACKPRESSURE. A pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused by a pump,
elevated tank, boiler or any other means that may cause backflow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure in the supply
piping.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY TESTER. A person who is certified by the Oregon
State Department of Human Services, and holds a contractor’s license with the
Construction Contractors Board.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of a potable water supply by the introduction
or admission of any foreign substance that degrades the quality and creates a
health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where a public water system is
connected, directly or indirectly (actual or potential), with any other non-
potable water system, used water system or auxiliary supply, sewer, drain
conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, swamp coolers, air
conditioner units, fire protection system or any other assembly which contains,
or may contain, contaminated water, sewage or other liquid of unknown or unsafe
quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water
system as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections,
removable sections, swivel or change-over assemblies, or other temporary or
permanent assemblies through which, or because of which, backflow may occur are
considered to be cross-connections.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS; CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow-prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved
backflow-prevention assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s
premises, where it is physically and economically unfeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer’s water system, or it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow-prevention assembly on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or
potential cross-connections that cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled
at the point of the cross-connection.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. The approved double check valve assembly
consists of two internally-loaded check valves, either spring loaded or
internally weighted, installed as a unit between two tightly closing resilient-
seated shutoff valves and fittings with properly located resilient-seated
cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard
that is a pollutant.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. A cross-connection or potential cross-connection involving
any substance that could, if introduced in the potable water supply, cause
death, illness, spread disease or have a high probability of causing the
effects.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing-type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air gap or an
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   HAZARD, NON-HEALTH. A cross-connection or potential cross-connection
involving any substance that generally would not be a health hazard but would
constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, if introduced into the
potable water supply.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination that would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution that may
be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or
concentration, such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or plumbing
hazard, if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but not
be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters, all types of process waters and
used waters originating from the public potable water system that may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality, chemicals in fluid form, plating acids and
alkalis, circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or
cooling waters that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with
toxic substances, contaminated natural waters, such as wells, springs, streams,
rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, and so forth, oils,
gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or fire-fighting purposes.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance in water that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a non-health hazard or impair the
usefulness of the water.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. The approved reduced-pressure principle
backflow-prevention assembly consists of two independently acting approved
check valves together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically independent
pressure differential relief valve located between the check valves and below
the first check valve. These units are located between two tightly closing
resilient-seated shutoff valves as an assembly and equipped with properly
located resilient-sealed test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, that is, where the city loses jurisdiction and sanitary
control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer’s water system.
If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There should be no
unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or backflow-
prevention assembly located at the point of delivery to the customer’s water
system. SERVICE CONNECTION shall also include water service connection from a
fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service connections
from the public potable water system.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water that is safe for human consumption as described by the
public health authority having jurisdiction.
   WATER, NON-POTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable quality.
   WATER, USED. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point
of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.032 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall install or maintain any physical interconnection between the
city water supply and any other source of water supply.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 WHEN BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Backflow prevention devices for protecting the city’s water system shall be
installed on all service connections to the premises where:
   (A)   There is an auxiliary water supply which is, or can be, connected to
the potable water piping;
   (B)   There are any cross-connections as the term is defined in §
50.031;
   (C)   The nature and extent of any activity on the premises, the materials
used in connection with any activity on the premises or materials stored on the
premises, could contaminate or pollute the drinking water supply in any way;
   (D)   There is piping for conveying or containing liquids other than potable
water, and where that piping is under pressure and is installed and operated in
a manner which could cause a cross-connection;
   (E)   There are internal cross-connections that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross-connections exist;
   (F)   There is unduly restricted entry so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or with sufficient notice
to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
   (G)   There are fire sprinkler systems using non-potable piping; and
   (H)   There is backflow potential.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.034 TYPE OF BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY REQUIRED.
   The type of backflow prevention device required under this subchapter shall
be commensurate with the degree of hazard which exists:
   (A)   An approved air gap of at least twice the inside diameter, but not
less than one inch, of the incoming supply line measured vertically above the
top rim of the vessel, or an approved reduced pressure backflow device assembly
shall be installed where the substance which could backflow is hazardous to
health, such as but not limited to: sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping
stations, chemical manufacturing plants, plating plants, hospitals, mortuaries,
car washes and/or medical clinics;
   (B)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where the
substance which could backflow is objectionable but does not pose an
unreasonable risk to health; and
   (C)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be the minimum
protection for fire sprinkler systems using piping material that is not
approved for potable water use and/or which does not provide for periodic flow
through during each 24-hour period, unless a variance has been issued in
writing. A reduced pressure assembly must be installed if any solution other
than the potable water can be introduced into the sprinkler system.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.035 DEVICES APPROVED BY OREGON DHS.
   All backflow prevention assemblies required under this subchapter shall be
of a type and model approved by the State of Oregon Department of Human
Services or its successor. Air gaps and non-testable devices shall be those
approved by the Oregon Specialty Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.036 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The City Public Works Superintendent shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water system from contamination and pollution
due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the Public Works Superintendent, an approved
backflow prevention assembly as described in this subchapter is necessary for
the safety of the water system, the Public Works Superintendent or his or her
designated agent shall give notice in writing to the customer that the
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly at a specific location
on the premises is required.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.037 INSTALLATION AT CUSTOMER’S EXPENSE.
   The installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly as described in
§
50.036 shall be at the customer’s expense.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.038 OWNERSHIP OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   Upon installation, the customer shall retain ownership of the above
described assembly, and the testing, maintenance, repair and replacement
thereof, in compliance with the requirements of the State of Oregon Department
of Human Services or its successor, shall be the responsibility of the
customer.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.039 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE TESTING.
   (A)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at least once per year.
Where the Public Works Superintendent deems the hazard to be great enough, he
or she may require tests at more frequent intervals. Backflow prevention
assemblies shall be tested immediately after installation and after they are
moved. Backflow prevention assemblies shall also be tested following a backflow
incident, or after an approved air gap is re-plumbed. Tests shall be performed
by certified testers in conformance with procedures established by the
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research. All testers
shall possess a valid certification issued by the State of Oregon Department of
Human Services or its successor.
   (B)   The water user or owner of the premises shall have the assembly tested
in accordance with division (A), above, and tests, inspections, repairs and
maintenance shall be at the expense of the water user or owner of the premises.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.040 EXISTING ASSEMBLIES.
   Backflow prevention assemblies installed before the effective date of this
subchapter that were approved at the time of installation but are not currently
approved, shall be permitted to remain in service provided the assemblies are
not moved, the piping systems are not significantly remodeled or modified, the
assemblies are properly maintained and they are commensurate with the degree of
hazard they were installed to protect. The assemblies must be tested at least
annually and perform satisfactorily.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.041 REPAIRS.
   Approved backflow prevention assemblies found not to be functioning properly
shall be repaired, replaced or re-plumbed as required by the Public Works
Superintendent. The repair, replacement or re-plumbing shall be at the expense
of the water user or owner of the premises.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.042 ACCESS.
   A customer’s water system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to the Public Works Superintendent and his or her designated
representatives, to determine whether cross-connections or other structural or
sanitary hazards exist. When a condition becomes known, the Public Works
Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with this subchapter. In the event the
customer refuses access to the Public Works Superintendent or his or her
designee, the Public Works Superintendent or his or her designee may then
require a backflow prevention assembly to be installed at the meter.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
Editor’s Note:
   Final sentence in this section added by motion before enactment 4-11-2005.
§ 50.043 MOBILE SYSTEMS.
   Any mobile apparatus which uses the city water system or water from any
premises within the city system must obtain a permit from the City Public Works
Superintendent or his or her designee.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.044 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Water service to a premises shall be discontinued at the direction of the
Public Works Superintendent for:
   (A)   Failure to remove, eliminate or protect an existing unprotected or
potential cross-connection, after the same has been identified by the Public
Works Superintendent and its correction ordered;
   (B)   Failure to install a required approved backflow prevention assembly
within ten days of being ordered to do by the Public Works Superintendent;
   (C)   Failure to maintain an approved backflow prevention assembly;
   (D)   Failure to conduct the required testing of an approved backflow
prevention assembly, where the assembly is not owned by the city; and/or
   (E)   Cases of extreme emergency may cause immediate discontinuance of
service where a threat to life or public health is found to exist.
(Ord. 490, passed 4-11-2005)
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT AND OPERATION OF THE WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.060 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “Rules and Regulations for the Operation
of the Water Department of the City of Union, Oregon” and may be so cited and
pleaded.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.061 SCOPE.
   The Water Department and all customers receiving services from the Water
Department, whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by these rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.062 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the City Council to superintend the
affairs of the Water Department.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons, firm or corporation, making application
for water service from the Water Department under the terms of these
regulations.
   CITY. The legally constituted municipal government of the City of Union,
Union County, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL. The legally-elected group of members composing the City
Council, including the Mayor of the City of Union, Oregon.
   CUSTOMER or USER. An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of
these regulations and who receives water service from the Water Department.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The part of the piping on the customer’s property
that connects the service to the customer’s distribution system.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system which connects
the meter to the main and normally consists of corporation stop, service pipe,
curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke and meter box.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the City of Union, Oregon.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.063 SERVICE AREA.
   The area served by the Water Department shall be all that area included
within the corporate limits of the City of Union and other contiguous and
neighboring territory as the City Council shall, from time to time, deem
necessary to serve.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.064 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and
care to deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at
a reasonable pressure and to avoid so far as reasonably possible any shortage
or interruption in delivery. The Water Department shall not be liable for
damage resulting from the interruption in service or from the lack of service.
Temporary suspension of service by the Water Department for improvements and
repairs will be necessary occasionally. Whenever possible, and when time
permits, all customers affected will be notified prior to shutdowns.
   (B)   Quality. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence to
supply safe and potable water at all times.
   (C)   Ownership of system. All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants and
other appurtenance, except “customer service lines”, as defined in §
50.067(A), shall be the property of the Water Department.
   (D)   Classes of service. The classes of service shall be “residential”,
“commercial”, “standby fire” and “contract”, as further qualified by the number
after the class as follows:
      (1)   Inside city limits; and
      (2)   Outside city limits.
         (a)   Residential service. Residential services shall consist of all
services for domestic purposes, single-family dwellings, homes and municipal
purposes.
         (b)   Commercial service. Commercial services shall consist of those
services where water is used for commercial services, such as businesses and
multi-family dwellings.
         (c)   Standby fire. Standby fire service shall consist of those
services where water is available or used for fire protection only.
         (d)   Contract service. Contract services shall consist of those
services for industrial or independent water district purposes under contracts
authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   Special contracts. When the applicant’s requirements for water are
unusual or large, such as an independent water district, or necessitate
considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the Water Department, by
authorization of the City Council, reserves the right to make a special
contract, the provisions of which are different from and have exceptions to the
regularly published water rates, rules and regulations. This special contract
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and approved by the City Council
and City Attorney and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder of the City of
Union.
   (F)   Resale of water. Resale of water shall be permitted only under special
contract, in writing, between the City Council and the persons, parties or
corporation selling the water.
   (G)   Service preference. In case of shortage of supply, the Water
Department reserves the right to give preferences in the matter of furnishing
service to customers and interests of the Water Department from the standing of
public convenience or necessity. Water service to users outside of the city
limits shall at all times be subject to the prior and superior rights of the
customers within the city limits.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.065 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application form. Each applicant for water service shall sign an
application form provided by the Water Department giving the date of
application, location of premises to be served, the date applicant desires
services to begin, purpose for which service is to be used, the address for
mailing of the billings, the class and the size of the meter service and other
information as the Water Department may reasonably require. In signing the
application, the customer agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the
Water Department. The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the Water Department to serve.
   (B)   Deposits and establishment of credit. At the time application for
service is made, the applicant shall establish his or her credit with the Water
Department.
      (1)   Establishment of credit. The credit of the applicant will be deemed
established when the applicant makes a cash deposit with the Water Department
to secure the payment of bills for service. The deposit shall be a sum equal to
the estimated bill for two months’ service but not less than $50.
      (2)   Deposits. At the time the deposit is given to the Water Department,
the applicant will be given a receipt for the same. The deposit is not to be
considered as a payment on account. In the event the service is discontinued,
the deposit will be applied to the closing bill and any amount in excess of the
closing bill will be refunded. The Water Department will not pay interest on
any deposit.
      (3)   Forfeiture of deposit. If an account becomes delinquent and it is
necessary to turn-off the service, the deposit shall be applied to the unpaid
balance due. Water service will not be restored to that premises or that
customer at different premises until all outstanding bills due the Water
Department have been paid and the cash deposit replaced, together with a $10
service charge. In the event a deposit has not been paid in the past, a deposit
will be required before water is turned on.
   (C)   Application amendments. Customers desiring a material change in the
size, character or extent of equipment or operation which would result in a
material change in the amount of water used shall give the Water Department
written notice of the change prior to the change and the application for
service shall be amended. Customers desiring a change in the size, location or
number of services shall fill out an amended application.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.066 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Within the city limits. Water main extensions to areas within the city
limits not presently served with water shall be installed under procedures to
be established by the City Council. Subdividers for newly partitioned
properties will assume all costs of main extensions with the approval of the
City Council.
   (B)   Outside the city limits. Water mains outside the city limits shall be
extended only at the expense of the customers served. The main extensions shall
become the property of the Water Department at the time installed. The City
Council shall determine the size of the main extensions and all extensions
shall be of a suitable material approved by the City Council. Extensions
outside the city limits shall be installed by the Water Department or by
contractors approved by the Water Department. The installation procedures and
materials used shall be in accordance with the city and the State of Oregon
standards.
   (C)   Locations of extensions. The Water Department will make water main
extensions only on rights-of-way, easements or publicly-owned property.
Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall be obtained in the name
of the City of Union, along with all rights and title to the main at the time
the service is provided to the customers paying for the extension.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.067 SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. The SERVICE CONNECTION shall be that part of the water
distribution system which connects the meter to the main and shall normally
consist of corporation stop, service pipe, curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke
and meter box. The CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE shall be that part of the piping on
the customer’s property that connects the service to the customer’s
distribution system.
   (B)   Ownership, installation and maintenance. The Water Department shall
own, install and maintain all services and installation and maintenance shall
only be performed by authorized employees of the Water Department. The customer
shall own, install and maintain the customer service line.
   (C)   Service connection charge. At the time the applicant files for service
where no service previously existed, or if he or she is filing for a change in
service size or location, he or she shall submit with his or her application
the service connection charge. This charge shall be in addition to the actual
cost to the Water Department for installing the service from the main to, and
including, the meter and the meter housing. The service connection charge shall
be as determined by the City Council in the current published water rate
schedule.
   (D)   Size of service. The Water Department will furnish and install a
service of such size and at the locations as the applicant requests, provided
the requests are reasonable and that the size requested is one that is listed
by the Water Department. The minimum size of service shall be three-fourths
inch. The Water Department may refuse to install a service line which is
undersized or oversized as determined by a study and report of the
Administrator to the City Council.
   (E)   Changes in service size. Permanent changes in the size of the service
line requested by the customer shall be paid by the customer on the basis of
actual cost to the Water Department for making the change.
   (F)   Length of service. Where the main is in a public right-of-way, the
meter will be placed at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served
provided the length of service line does not exceed the width of the right-of-
way. Where the main is on an easement of publicly-owned property other than
designated rights-of-way, the services shall be installed to the boundary of
the easement or public property by the Water Department.
   (G)   Joint service connections. The Water Department may, at its option,
serve two or more premises with one connection. On new service connections, the
inside diameter of the joint lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying
capacity of not less than the combined capacity of individual service lines of
the same size as the meters installed. Service extensions from an existing
service to other occupancies or ownerships than that for which the existing
service was intended shall not be permitted nor shall separate residences be
permitted to receive service through one meter except under special
considerations approved by the City Council.
   (H)   Number of service connections on premises. The owner of a single
parcel of property may apply for and receive as many services as he or she and
his or her tenants may require, provided his or her application or applications
meet the requirements of the policies, rules and regulations.
   (I)   Standby fire protection service connections.
      (1)   Purpose. Standby fire protection service connections of two-inch
size and larger will be installed only if adequate provisions are made to
prevent the use of water from the services for purposes other than fire
extinguishing. Sealed fire sprinkler systems with water-operated alarms shall
be considered as having the provisions. The Water Department may require that a
suitable detector check meter be installed in the standby fire protection
service connections, to which hose lines or hydrants are connected. All piping
on the customer’s premises shall be installed in accordance with the Plumbing
Code of the State of Oregon.
      (2)   Charges for service. Charges for standby fire protection service
will be stated in the published water rate schedule. No charge will be made for
water used in the standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental
fires or for routine testing of the fire protection system. The customers shall
pay the full cost of the standby protection service connection, any required
detector check meters and any required special water meter installed for the
service to the standby connection.
      (3)   Violations of regulations. If water is used from a standby pipe
connection service in violation of these regulations, an estimate of the amount
used will be computed by the Water Department. The customer shall pay for the
water used at the regular rates, including the minimum charge based on the size
of the service connection and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the
regular water rates.
   (J)   Fire service connections other than standby. A service having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered as an ordinary service
and metered as such. All water used through that service, regardless of its
use, will be charged at the regular rates.
   (K)   Temporary service connections. For water service of a temporary
nature, applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material furnished by the
Water Department. The applicant shall also pay his or her water bill in advance
and based on an estimate of the quantity to be used, or he or she shall
otherwise establish satisfactory credit.
      (1)   Time limit. Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six months after installation unless an extension of time is
granted in writing by the Water Department.
      (2)   Charge for water served. Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set forth in the
current water rate schedule.
      (3)   Installation charge and deposits. The applicant for temporary
service will be required:
         (a)   To pay the Water Department, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing all facilities necessary to furnish each service;
         (b)   To deposit an amount sufficient to cover bills for water during
the entire period the temporary service may be used, or to otherwise establish
credit approved by the Water Department; and
         (c)   To deposit, with the utility, an amount equal to the value of
any equipment loaned by the Water Department to the applicant under the terms
of division (K)(4) below.
      (4)   Responsibility for meters and installation. The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the Water Department. If the meter or other facilities are
damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be deducted from the deposit fund. If
the loaned materials are returned in satisfactory condition and all bills paid,
the full amount of the equipment deposit will be returned to the temporary
customer at the termination of service.
   (L)   Customer’s plumbing.
      (1)   Plumbing Code. The customer’s plumbing, which shall include the
customer’s service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures and other
appurtenances carrying or intended to carry water, sewer or drainage, shall
comply with the Plumbing Code of the State of Oregon.
      (2)   Control valves. Customers shall install a suitable control valve in
the customer service line as close to the meter as possible, the operation of
which will control the entire water supply to the premises served. In the event
a customer’s service is discontinued for any reason, a control valve must be
installed, if none exists, as provided by this section. It shall be a violation
of these rules and regulations for the customer to operate, cause or permit
unauthorized operation of the meter stop or any appurtenances on the service
connection.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.068 METERS.
   (A)   Ownership. The Water Department will own and maintain all water
meters. The Water Department will not pay rent or any other charge for a meter
or other water facilities, including housing and connections on a customer’s
premises.
   (B)   Installation. Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the Water Department. All meters shall be sealed by the
Water Department at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by one of its authorized employees.
   (C)   The size and type of meter. Applicant may request and receive any size
meter regularly stocked or furnished by the Water Department, provided the
request is reasonable and further provided that the meter is not greatly
oversized or undersized, as determined by the Water Superintendent. The Water
Department reserves the right to determine the type of meter to be installed.
   (D)   Location of meters. Meters shall normally be placed at the curb or
property lines. The meter will be installed wherever the applicant desires
within reason, but the location must be approved by the Water Department. The
meters will not be located in driveways or other locations where damage to the
meter or its related parts may occur unless protective measures are undertaken.
   (E)   Joint use of meters. The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges and large quantity rates shall be
prohibited, except under special contract, in writing, with the City Council.
   (F)   Charges.
      (1)   Funds in excess of utility expenses. If revenues received from the
imposition of water and sewer rates exceed expenses of the current operation,
capital improvement costs and debt service for the water and sewer systems, the
excess water and sewer revenues shall be held, respectively in the Water
Reserve Fund and Sewer Reserve Fund, and the use of those funds shall be
limited to the future maintenance, improvement and debt payment for the water
and sewer systems, respectively.
      (2)   Water; residential equivalent unit.
         (a)   Except as provided following the chart below, the number of
residential equivalent units (REUs) shall be determined by meter size, as
follows:
 
                           Allowable
Water Meter                Consumption      Base Water Rate Base Sewer Rate
Size        Number of REUs Included in Base Per Month       Per Month
                           Rate (Cubic
                           Feet)
¾-inch     1              0                $33             $50
1-inch      2              0                $75             $100
1½-inch    4              0                $150            $200
2-inch      8              0                $250            $400
3-inch      16             0                $400            $800
 
         (b)   The number of residential equivalent units (REUs) for duplexes,
triplexes, manufactured dwelling parks, multi-family dwelling and businesses
with apartment where two or more dwelling units are served by a single meter,
shall be the sum of the dwelling units served by that meter, irrespective of
meter size.
      (3)   Water rates.
         (a)   All dwellings (REUs) using water from the City of Union will be
required to have a three-fourths inch meter (or larger if required by special
circumstances e.g., fire suppression system). The base rate water for
residential service shall be $33 per month per residential equivalent unit
(REU) as defined in this section, which base rate does not include charges for
water usage.
         (b)    In addition to the base fee set forth in division (F)(3)(a),
the first 1,000 cubic feet of water used per billing cycle shall be subject to
a charge of $0.005 per cubic foot. Thereafter, water usage in excess of 1,000
cubic feet shall be charged at the rate of $0.0125 per cubic foot, except
during the time frame from June 1 to October 1, during which time the first
2,000 cubic feet of water usage per billing cycle shall be charged $0.005 per
cubic foot, and shall be charged $0.0125 per cubic foot used thereafter.
      (4)   Sewer rates.
         (a)   The residential equivalent unit (REU) for sewer is 725 cubic
feet of effluent. Each additional REU used, such as by heavy industrial or
commercial laundry use, for example, will be multiples of the REU rate similar
to the water chart (division (F)(2)(a) above).
         (b)   The base rate for sewer service from the City of Union shall be
$50 per month per residential equivalent unit (REU).
         (c)   Hotels, motels and RV parks will be charged one base rate for
the business and pro-rated one-thirtieth per use day of rooms or hookups.
      (5)   Rates following disconnection.
         (a)   When water service to a lot, parcel, or unit has been
disconnected, the account shall no longer be subject to the base rate, or to
any maintenance or usage charges. Users disconnecting services will be
responsible only for paying a disconnect fee (turn off) and for any water usage
that has occurred since the last meter reading.
         (b)   Water or sewer service shall not be resumed without
authorization from the City of Union, and the payment of any fees that may be
due and owing, including a fee for resumption of service or re-connection.
         (c)   Any property with water and sewer services that has been
disconnected for a period greater than or equal to three years, shall pay
system development charges, if any such charges are enacted in the interim, to
reconnect service to the system.
      (6)   Rates: use of water no sewer or sewer no water.
         (a)   Those accounts receiving city water service but no sewer service
will pay the amounts owed for water service as set forth in division (F)(3)
above.
         (b)   Those accounts receiving city sewer service will pay full rates
for sewer service.
      (7)   Adjustments. For the purposes of this section, a 0% - 3.0% increase
in the above rates in divisions (F)(3), (4), (5) and (6) above will be made
yearly to keep the water and sewer rates current with the increased cost of
living.
         (a)   A 1.5% increase will automatically go into effect on April 1
annually should Council fail to address the rates as set forth in division (F)
(7)(b) below.
         (b)   The City Council shall review the current rate annually in
January (but no later than March) and may increase rates as determined to be
appropriate, but not to exceed 3.0%.
         (c)   In the event of an EMERGENCY, defined as a major loss to the
water or sewer system, the need to respond to an unfunded mandate of the state
or the federal government, an act of God, terrorism or vandalism, Council may
adjust the rates appropriately.
         (d)   The City Council is further authorized to decrease sewer rates,
water rates, or both, in the event the Council determines that such decrease
will not reduce the current acceptable level of services.
         (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, or any provision of any ordinance
of the City of Union, the City Council is hereby authorized to set or amend all
water and sewer rates, and system development charges, by resolution.
      (8)   Special circumstances and requirements. For any utility rates not
expressly provided for in this section, including, but not limited to, utility
hookup charges, standby fire rates and contract rates, the City Council retains
the authority to set rates by resolution.
   (G)   Effective date of metered rates. The rates herein provided to be paid
and collected shall be effective for all collection periods beginning on and
after the date on which the City Council, by resolution, established the
beginning of metered charges.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990; Ord. 508, passed 6-28-2007; Ord. 545, passed 11-
10-2014; Ord. 563, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 50.069 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices to customers. Notices from the Water Department to the
customer will normally be given in writing and either mailed to or delivered to
him or her at his or her last known address. Where conditions warrant and in
emergencies, the Water Department may notify either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notices from the customer to the Water
Department may be given by the customer or his or her authorized representative
orally or in writing at the office of the Water Department in the City Hall or
to an agent of the Water Department duly authorized to receive notices or
complaints.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.070 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Meter readings. Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis
of the meter reading to the nearest cubic foot. The Water Department will keep
an accurate account on its books of all readings of meters and the account so
kept shall be offered at all times, places and courts as prima facie evidence
of the use of water service by the customer.
   (B)   Rendering of bills.
      (1)   Billing period. All meters shall be read and bills rendered
therefore monthly, except during winter months as determined by the City
Council.
      (2)   Bills for other than normal billing period. Opening or closing
bills, or bills that for any other reason cover a period containing 10% more
days or 10%less days than in the normal billing period shall be prorated.
      (3)   Bills for more than one meter. All meters supplying a customer’s
premises shall be billed separately, except that where the Water Department has
for operating purposes installed two or more meters in place of one, the
reading may be combined for billing.
   (C)   Disputed bills. When a customer disputes the correctness of a bill, he
or she shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the complaint
is lodged, to preclude discontinuance of service pending final settlement of
the bill or bills. Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on deposit in a
similar manner. Failure of the customer to make a deposit shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under division (F) below.
   (D)   Failure to read meters. In the event that it shall be impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption
shall be prorated on the basis of 30 days per month and the total water
consumption for billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
   (E)   Payment of bills. Water bills shall be due and payable when rendered.
Any account for which the bill is not paid is full during the month shall be
considered delinquent.
   (F)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Past due billing. Any amount due on a delinquent account shall be
listed as “Previous Balance” on the next month’s billing statement.
      (2)   Turn-off notice. About a week before the due date, a turn-off
notice will be sent to any customer who has not paid the “Previous Balance”
listed on the billing statement. The notice shall state a date on which water
will be turned off if delinquent account is not paid in full prior thereto.
      (3)   Service turn-off. On the turn-off date, the meter reader or other
agent of the City of Union shall deliver a written notice to the customer
stating that the water service is being turned off until all current and
delinquent amounts have been paid. The meter reader or other agent of the city
shall immediately thereafter turn-off the service. A delivery to the premises
served by the meter shall be considered a delivery to the customer.
      (4)   Service charge. In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a $10 service charge shall be made for the
restoration of services and replacement of cash deposit as stated in division
(F)(2) above, will be required.
   (G)   Installment payments of delinquent accounts. In cases of extreme
hardship, the City Recorder shall have the discretion of renewing service to a
delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment plan for the
payment of the overdue amount. The plan shall be in writing and the installment
period shall not exceed the period of time the account was delinquent.
   (H)   Water charge liens. Water service charges shall be a lien against the
premises served from and after the date of billing and entry on the ledger or
other records of the city pertaining to its water system, and the ledger,
records or other records shall remain accessible for inspection by anyone
interested in ascertaining the amount of the charges against the property.
Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid 90 days after it has been
rendered, the lien thereby created may be foreclosed in the manner provided for
by Oregon Revised Statutes, or in any other manner provided for by law or city
ordinance.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.071 METER ERROR.
   (A)   Meter accuracy. All meters will be tested prior to installation. No
meter will be placed in service or allowed to remain in service which is known
to have an error in registration in excess of 2% under conditions of normal
operation.
   (B)   Meter test.
      (1)   Standard test. Meter tests will be conducted in accordance with
standards of practice established by the American Water Works Association.
      (2)   On customer request. A customer may, giving not less than seven
days’ notice, request the Water Department to test the meter servicing his or
her premises. The Water Department will require the customer to deposit the
testing fee. This fee shall be $10 for meters three-fourths inch and smaller,
and for meters larger than three-fourths inch shall be an estimate of the cost
of testing the meter as determined by the Water Superintendent. The deposit
will be returned to the customer if the test reveals the meter to over-register
more than 2% under the standard test conditions; otherwise, the deposit shall
be retained by the Water Department. Customers may, at their option, witness
any meter tests which they request.
      (3)   On Water Department request. If, upon comparison with past water
usage, it appears that a meter is not registering properly, the Water
Department may, at its option, test the meter and adjust the charges
accordingly if the meter either over-registers or under-registers. No charge
for meter testing will be made to the customer for the meter test under these
conditions.
   (C)   Adjustments of bill for meter error.
      (1)   No credits or debits. No credits or debits will be borne by the
city or the customer should the tested meter show variance high or low, from
the accuracy defined in §
50.072(A).
      (2)   Non-registering meters. The Water Department will bill the customer
for water consumed while the meter was not registering. The bill will be
computed upon an estimate of consumption based either upon the customer’s prior
use during the same season of the year, or upon a reasonable comparison with
the use of other customers receiving the same class of service during the same
season and under similar circumstances and conditions.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.072 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   On customer request. Each customer about to vacate any premises
supplied with water service by the Water Department shall give the Water
Department written notice of his or her intentions at least two days prior
thereto, specifying the date service is to be discontinued; otherwise, he or
she will be responsible for all water supplied to the premises until the Water
Department shall receive notice of the removal. At the time specified by the
customer that he or she expects to vacate the premises where service is
supplied or that he or she desires to be discontinued, the meter will be read
and a bill rendered which is payable immediately. In no case will the bill be
less than the monthly minimum specified in the schedule applying to the class
or classes of service furnished.
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills. A customer’s water service may be discontinued if
the water bill is not paid in accordance with the procedures listed in §
50.071.
   (C)   Nonpayment of sewer service charges. The charges for sewer service are
authorized by Chapter 51 and set by resolution of the City Council. If the
sewer service charges are not paid when due by any person, firm or corporation
whose premises are served or who are subject to the charges herein provided,
water service provided to that customer by the City of Union Water Department
may be discontinued because of the default in the payment of the sewer service
charges. As an additional alternative method, if the rates and charges are not
paid when due by any person, firm or corporation, the amounts so unpaid may be
certified by the City Recorder to the County Assessor of Union County, Oregon,
and shall be by him or her assessed against the premises served as provided by
law and shall be collected and paid over to the city in the same manner as
other taxes are assessed, collected and paid over, with interest. Interest on
unpaid bills shall run from the due date thereof at a rate to be set by
resolution of the City Council. The unpaid charges may also be recovered in an
action at law in the name of the city, with interest as aforesaid.
   (D)   Improper customer facilities.
      (1)   Unsafe facilities. The Water Department may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue services to any premises without prior notice where
plumbing facilities, appliances or equipment using water are dangerous, unsafe
or not in conformity with the Plumbing Code of the State of Oregon.
      (2)   Cross-connections. A cross-connection is defined as any physical
connection between the Water Department’s system and another water supply. The
Oregon State Health Division and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
prohibit cross-connections. The Water Department will not permit any cross-
connection and will discontinue service to any persons or premises where a
cross-connection exists. Service will not be restored until the cross-
connection is eliminated. Customers using water from one or more sources in
addition to receiving water from the Water Department on the same premises
shall maintain separate systems for each; and the Water Department’s water
supply facilities shall be separated from any and all other systems by an air
gap of not less than one foot, or if in the ground, by not less than five feet.
   (E)   Water waste. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer’s premises, seriously affecting the general service, the Water
Department may discontinue service if the conditions are not corrected after
due notice by the Water Department.
   (F)   Service detrimental to others. The Water Department may refuse to
furnish water and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive
demands by one customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (G)   Fraud or abuse. The Water Department will refuse or discontinue
service to any premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the Water
Department from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the Water
Department that the condition or conditions exist.
   (H)   Unauthorized turn-on. Where water service has been discontinued for
any reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the Water Department plus 15% overhead, but not less
than $75. These charges shall be billed to the offending customer and water
shall not be furnished to the premises or customer until the charges are paid
and the Water Department had reasonable assurance that the violation will not
reoccur.
   (I)   Noncompliance with regulations. The Water Department may, upon five
days’ notice, discontinue service to a customer’s premises for failure to
comply with any of the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.073 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Restoration of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills
shall be made after payment of current and past due charges, plus $10 for
restoration charge and posting a deposit as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   Restoration of service after discontinuance of service for unsafe
facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse or for noncompliance with any of the
policies, rules and regulations will only be made after the irregularity has
been corrected and the Water Department has been assured that the irregularity
will not reoccur. The restoration charge shall be $50 plus any other charges
due or past due that the Water Department may have incurred to correct the
irregularity.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.074 UNUSUAL DEMANDS.
   (A)   When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a
swimming pool, log pond or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with
the Water Department prior to taking the water.
   (B)   Permission to take water in unusual quantities will be given only if
the Water Department facilities and other consumers are not inconvenienced.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.075 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   All duly appointed employees of the Water Department, under the
direction of the City Administrator, shall have free access at all reasonable
hours of the day to any and all parts of structures and premises in which water
is or may be delivered for the purposes of inspecting connections, the
conditions of conduits and fixtures, and the manner and extent in which the
water is being used. The Water Department does not, however, assume the duty of
inspecting the customer’s line, plumbing and equipment and shall not be
responsible therefore.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to ensure that Water
Department personnel have access to the meter at the customer’s premises for
determining consumption and billing. In the event that a meter cannot be read
because it has been blocked by a parked vehicle, covered with dirt or debris,
or otherwise rendered inaccessible by the customer, making it necessary for
Water Department personnel to make a special trip to attempt to read the meter,
the customer shall be assessed an additional charge for the additional service.
The amount of the charge shall be determined by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990; Ord. 495, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 50.076 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for customer equipment. The Water Department shall not
be liable for any loss or damage of any nature whatsoever caused by any defect
in the customer’s line, plumbing or equipment, nor shall the Water Department
be liable for loss or damage due to interruption of service or temporary
changes in pressure. The customer shall be responsible for valves on his or her
premises being turned off when the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility for Water Department equipment. Water Department
equipment on the customer’s premises remains the property of the Department and
may be repaired, replaced or removed by the Department employees at any time
without consent of the customer. No payment will be made to the property owner
for the right to install, maintain, replace or removed Water Department
equipment on his or her premises. The property owner must keep vicious dogs or
other animals secured or confined to avoid interference with the utility
operation and maintenance.
   (C)   Damage to Water Department equipment. The customer shall be liable for
any damage to equipment owned by the Water Department which is caused by an act
of the customer, his or her tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees
or permittees. Damage to equipment shall include but not be limited to breaking
of seals and locks, tampering with meters, injury to meters, including but not
limited to damages by hot water or steam, and damaged meter boxes, curb stops,
meter stops and other appurtenances.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.077 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Operation. No person or persons other than those designated and
authorized by the Water Department shall open any fire hydrant belonging to the
Water Department, attempt to draw water from it or in any manner damage or
tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be prosecuted according
to law. No tool other than special hydrant wrenches shall be used to operate a
hydrant valve. In cases where a temporary service has been granted and received
water through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be provided to
control the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving a fire hydrant. When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
locations specified by the proper authority, the Water Department has fulfilled
its obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he or she shall bear all costs of the changes.
Any changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by the Water
Department and the Fire Department.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.078 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   No employee of the Water Department is authorized to suspend or alter any of
the policies, rules and regulations cited herein without specific approval or
direction of the City Council, except in cases of emergency involving loss of
life or property or in circumstances which would place the water system
operation in jeopardy.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.079 EASEMENT.
   Each applicant and user gives and grants to the City of Union an easement
and right-of-way on and across his or her property for the installation of
water mains and the necessary valves and equipment in connection therewith.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Rules and regulations for the conduct and operation of the water
system. Any person violating any of the provisions of these rules and
regulations, §§
50.060 through
50.079, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500.
(Ord. 421, passed 5-30-1990)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
51.015   Unsanitary disposal of waste
   
51.016   Unlawful discharge of sewage
   
51.017   Privies, septic tanks and the like
   
51.018   Sewer connections required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.035   Private disposal
   
51.036   Permit
   
51.037   Inspection
   
51.038   Compliance with state recommendations
   
51.039   Sewer connections
   
51.040   Operation and maintenance
   
51.041   Additional requirements
   
51.042   Discontinuance of private disposal
   
51.043   User fees
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.060   Permits
   
51.061   Applications
   
51.062   Costs
   
51.063   Separate installations
   
51.064   Inspection of old building sewers
   
51.065   Specifications for building sewers
   
51.066   Elevation; lift
   
51.067   Surface drainage
   
51.068   Specifications for connections
   
51.069   Inspection
   
51.070   Barricades; restoration of public property
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.085   Prohibited drainage in sanitary sewers
   
51.086   Drainage in storm sewers
   
51.087   Prohibited discharges in public sewers
   
51.088   Substances prohibited in public sewers except by permission
   
51.089   Requirements for discharge of special wastes
   
51.090   Interceptors
   
51.091   Pretreatment or flow equalization
   
51.092   Manholes
   
51.093   Sampling and testing
   
51.094   Special arrangements
Protection From Damage
   
51.110   Damage; disorderly conduct
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.125   Inspections; right of entry
   
51.126   Liability
   
51.127   Easements
User Charges
   
51.140   Rates and assessments
   
51.141   Annual review
   
51.142   Applications for public sewer service
   
51.143   Public sewer charge liens
   
51.144   Temporary discontinuance of service
   
51.145   Prepayment of sewer rates
   
51.146   Payment of rates; delinquencies
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet
(1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other places of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
      (1)   The liquid waste from any non-governmental user of publicly owned
treatment works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office Management Budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division C: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division D: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e) Division I: Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic waste or waste from
sanitary conveniences.
   INSPECTOR.  The State of Oregon Plumbing Inspector or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangements of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL; MAY.  SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 319, passed 5-18-1977)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.015 UNSANITARY DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City of Union, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable wastes.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City of
Union, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND THE LIKE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage on any premises located within 200
feet of a sewer line.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.018 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way, in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer
of the city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided that the public sewer
is within 200 feet of the property line.
   (B)   There will be a $200 minimum late fee charged after 90 days from the
date of official notice.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.035 PRIVATE DISPOSAL.
   When a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.036 PERMIT.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Inspector.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as deemed necessary by the Inspector.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee may be charged by the Inspector.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.037 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Inspector.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Inspector when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Inspector.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.038 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Environmental
Quality of the State of Oregon.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.038, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter; and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.040 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.041 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.042 DISCONTINUANCE OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.043 USER FEES.
   A user fee will be charged to all property owners to whom the sewer is
available.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.060 PERMITS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Inspector.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 APPLICATIONS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service; and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either
case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and for an industrial building sewer permit may be
charged by the Inspector at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.062 COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.063 SEPARATE INSTALLATIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.064 INSPECTION OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and tests by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.065 SPECIFICATIONS FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and back-filling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.066 ELEVATION; LIFT.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.067 SURFACE DRAINAGE.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Inspector before
installation.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.069 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his or
her representative.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.070 BARRICADES; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.085 PROHIBITED DRAINAGE IN SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 DRAINAGE IN STORM SEWERS.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Inspector. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Inspector, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.087 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES IN PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CH in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of the size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
un-ground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshing, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC SEWERS EXCEPT BY PERMISSION.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Inspector that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Inspector will give consideration to the factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treat-ability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Inspector;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
Inspector for the materials;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in the concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Inspector as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Inspector in compliance with the
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of (9.5);
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in the
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 REQUIREMENTS FOR DISCHARGE OF SPECIAL WASTES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.088, and which in the judgment of the Inspector may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Inspector may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.094.
   (B)   If the Inspector permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Inspector and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.090 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except, that the interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Inspector and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.091 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.092 MANHOLES.
   When required by the Inspector, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Inspector. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.093 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.094 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE
§ 51.110 DAMAGE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.125 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Inspector and duly authorized employees and agents of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Inspector or
his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.126 LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.125, the Inspector or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, the
city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation; except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.092.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
§ 51.127 EASEMENTS.
   The Inspector and duly authorized employees and agents of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
USER CHARGES
§ 51.140 RATES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish rates, hook-up fees and
other assessments it deems necessary for the use of the sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 319, passed 5-18-1977)
Cross-reference:
   For information relating to the Sewer Reserve Fund and sewer rates, see §
50.068(F).
§ 51.141 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The City Council shall review the sewer use charges on an annual basis.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 319, passed 5-18-1977)
§ 51.142 APPLICATIONS FOR PUBLIC SEWER SERVICE.
   Applications for the use of the public sewer must be made at the office of
the City Recorder, and applicant must agree to conform with the rules and
regulations herein as a condition for the use of the public sewer. The property
owner of record shall be responsible for the payment of all charges prescribed
for the use of the public sewer.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 353, passed 1-12-1981; Ord. 377, passed 2-11-
1985)
§ 51.143 PUBLIC SEWER CHARGE LIENS.
   Public sewer charges shall be a lien against the premises served from and
after the date of billing and entry on the ledger or other records of the city
pertaining to its public sewer system, and the ledger records or other records
shall remain accessible for inspection by anyone interested in ascertaining the
amount of the charges against the property. Whenever a bill for sewer service
remains unpaid 90 days after it has been rendered, the lien thereby created may
be foreclosed in the manner provided for by Oregon Revised Statutes, or in any
other manner provided for by law or city ordinance.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 353, passed 1-12-1981)
§ 51.144 TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Should it be desired to discontinue the use of the public sewer supplied to
the premises for a period not less than one month, notice in writing must be
given and payment in full of all arrearage made at the office of the City
Recorder. The monthly sewer user fee will be reduced to the minimum user fee as
prescribed by Council resolution until use of the public sewer resumes.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 353, passed 1-12-1981)
§ 51.145 PREPAYMENT OF SEWER RATES.
   If any public sewer user shall desire to pay a year’s sewer user fee in
advance, he or she shall be entitled to a 5% discount from the annual amount.
The anniversary date for all payments of sewer user fees one year in advance
shall be July 1 of each year and the payment must be made by July 15 at the
office of the City Recorder in order to receive the 5% discount.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 353, passed 1-12-1981)
§ 51.146 PAYMENT OF RATES; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   All public sewer user fees accruing shall become due and payable at
the office of the City Recorder, in advance, on the first day of each month,
and if the same shall not be paid on or before day ten of the following month,
the same shall become past due; provided that the City Council may fix a
different time for payment of public sewer service charges owing by the U.S.
Government and the State of Oregon.
   (B)   Upon any sewer user charge becoming past due as herein provided, the
office of the City Recorder shall notify the property owner of record that
sewer use charges are one month in arrears. Should the sewer use charge remain
in arrears 30 days after the first notification, the property owner of record
shall be furnished a notice of the delinquencies by the City of Union which
shall allow ten days to remedy the delinquency. All sewer users requiring the
second delinquent notification will not only pay the two delinquent rentals,
but the current month’s fee as well.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 353, passed 1-12-1981; Ord. 377, passed 1-11-
1985)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except §
51.110, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of an offense, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $25 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Liability of violators. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 304, passed 4-7-1975)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose, policy and scope
   
52.02   Definitions
Customer Responsibility
   
52.15   Preparation of solid waste for collection
   
52.16   Solid waste receptacles
   
52.17   Placement of receptacles for collection
   
52.18   Multiple dwelling units
   
52.19   Payment for services
   
52.20   Prohibitions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste management franchise, see
TSO, Table II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE, POLICY AND SCOPE.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the City of Union to regulate
solid waste management by:
   (A)   Insuring safe, economical and comprehensive solid waste management
service;
   (B)   Insuring rates and charges that are just and reasonable and adequate
to provide necessary solid waste management service;
   (C)   Prohibiting rate preferences and other discriminatory practices; and
   (D)   Complying with all requirements of O.R.S. Chapters 459 and 459A,
together with regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where the content clearly indicates a different meaning, definitions
appearing in O.R.S. 459.005 and 459A.005 and regulations promulgated
thereunder, are applicable in this chapter. The singular includes the plural
and vice versa. As used in this chapter, the following words shall be defined
as follows unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Union.
   COMPACT and COMPACTION. The process of, or to engage in, the shredding of
material, or the manual or mechanical compression of material.
   COMPENSATION. Includes:
      (1)   Any type of consideration paid for service, including, but not
limited to, rent, the proceeds from resource recovery, any direct or indirect
provision for the payment of money, goods, services or benefits by tenants,
lessees, occupants or similarly situated persons;
      (2)   The exchange of service between persons; and
      (3)   The flow of consideration from a person owning, possessing or
generating solid waste to another person who provides services or from a person
providing services to another person owning, possessing or generating solid
waste.
   DISPOSE or DISPOSAL. The accumulation, storage, discarding, collection,
removal, transportation, recycling or resource recovery of waste.
   FRANCHISE. The grant by the city to a person to provide solid waste
management service, as provided by this code.
   FRANCHISEE. The person to whom the exclusive franchise is granted under this
code.
   GENERATOR. The person who produces solid waste or recyclable material to be
placed, or that is placed, out for collection and disposal. As used in this
chapter, a GENERATOR does not include any person who manages an intermediate
function resulting in the alteration or compaction of the solid waste or
recyclable material after it has been produced by the GENERATOR and placed out
for collection and disposal.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. This has the meaning given in O.R.S. 466.005.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, firm, trust,
estate, cooperative or other private legal entity.
   PLACED FOR COLLECTION. To put solid waste out for collection by a
franchisee, as provided in this code.
   RECEPTACLE. A trash can, cart, bin, container, drop box or other vessel used
for the disposal of solid waste, and into which solid waste may be placed for
collection and disposal.
   SERVICE. The collection, storage, transportation, transfer or disposal of
solid waste by the franchisee, which shall be performed in accordance with the
service requirements of this code.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non putrescible wastes, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, ashes, waste paper, cardboard,
grass clippings, compost, tires, equipment and furniture; commercial,
industrial, demolition and construction wastes; discarded or abandoned vehicles
or parts thereof; discarded home or industrial appliances; manure, vegetable or
animal solid and semi-solid wastes, dead animals; infectious waste as defined
in O.R.S. 459.386; and other wastes; but the term does not include:
      (1)   HAZARDOUS WASTE as defined in O.R.S. 466.005.
      (2)   Materials used for fertilizer or for other productive purposes or
which are salvageable as such materials and are used on land in agricultural
operations and the growing or harvesting of crops and the raising of fowls or
animals.
      (3) Beverage containers, subject to reuse or refund provisions, contained
in O.R.S. 459A.700 to 459A.740.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The prevention or reduction of solid waste; the
business of collection, transportation, storage, treatment, utilization,
processing, disposal, recycling and resource recovery of solid waste; and the
facilities necessary or convenient to such activities.
   WASTE. Useless or discarded materials.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009)
CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 52.15 PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Garbage shall be drained of surplus liquid and placed in a closed,
leak-proof receptacle.
   (B)   Pet feces, sharp objects such as broken glass and knives, and any
other waste with potential of causing injury or disease shall be securely
wrapped in a manner to prevent exposure or injury to the public, the
franchisee, or employees of the franchisee.
   (C)   Hazardous materials, chemicals, paint, corrosive materials, infectious
waste or hot ashes shall not be put into a receptacle. Ashes shall be allowed
to cool and shall be securely wrapped or bagged before being deposited in any
receptacle. When materials or customer abuse, fire or vandalism causes
excessive wear or damage to a receptacle, the cost of repair or replacement may
be charged to the customer.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Receptacles for mechanical collection shall be provided to the
generator by franchisee, unless otherwise authorized by the franchisee. The
loaded weight of a receptacle shall comply with the manufacturer’s
specifications.
   (B)   Except for drop boxes, receptacles shall be equipped with lids
sufficient to keep out water and to prevent disturbance by animals and entrance
of pests; they shall be kept closed, except when being filled, emptied or
cleaned; and they shall be kept in a clean, leak-proof and sanitary condition
by the generator of the solid waste.
   (C)   Sunken refuse cans or receptacles shall not be installed or used.
   (D)   Stationary compactors shall comply with applicable federal and state
safety regulations. No stationary compactor or other container or drop box
shall be loaded so as to exceed the safe design limit or operation limit for
collection vehicles used by franchisee. A person who wishes service for a
compactor that the person is going to acquire shall acquire a compactor
approved by the franchisee that is compatible with the equipment of the
franchisee or the equipment the franchisee is willing to acquire.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Receptacles shall be kept or placed so that there is convenient and
safe access for collection service.
   (B)   All carts designed for mechanical collection shall be placed at the
curb or roadside by the generator prior to collection time.
   (C)   The generator shall provide safe access to the pick-up point so as not
to jeopardize the persons or equipment supplying service, or the motoring
public.
   (D)   Receptacles shall be kept outside of any locked, latched, bolted or
hooked enclosure.
   (E)   No person shall block service access to a commercial receptacle that
is one cubic yard capacity or larger, a drop box or roll-off box or other
similar receptacles for collection.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS.
   Apartment houses, trailer courts, duplexes or other multiple dwelling units
shall have weekly solid waste collection for a volume that is equivalent to at
least 35 gallons for each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 52.19 PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   Any person who receives service shall be responsible for payment of that
service. The landlord of any premises impliedly consents to the provision of
service to the tenant thereof, and shall be responsible for payment of that
service if the tenant does not pay.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, it shall be unlawful for
any person other than the franchisee to offer or to advertise to provide, or to
provide, solid waste management service to another person for compensation.
   (B)   No person shall dispose of hazardous waste in any manner that is not
authorized or permitted by federal, state or local laws and regulations. No
person shall place hazardous waste out for collection or into any receptacle
supplied by the franchisee.
   (C)   No person shall enter into a receptacle for the purpose of compacting
the contents of the receptacle.
   (D)   No person shall remove a receptacle from the location where the
receptacle was placed for collection, unless the person is authorized to do so
by the generator.
   (E)   No person shall remove the lid from any receptacle and remove,
disturb, collect, compact or scatter solid waste placed in such receptacle, nor
shall they deposit solid waste into such receptacle, unless the person is
authorized to do so by the generator.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation by any person of the provisions in §
52.20 shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable upon
conviction by a fine that is set pursuant to a schedule and a process that are
approved by City Council resolution for ordinance violations. The schedule
shall include an amount for court fees. The City Council may revise the
schedule or process from time to time as it determines necessary to comply with
changing circumstances, state statutes or to offset court costs.
(Ord. 517, passed 2-9-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles; Operation and Conveyance
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Public roads
   
70.03   Operator requirement
   
70.04   Vehicle requirements
   
70.05   Vehicle operation
   
70.06   Liability
   
70.07   Enforcement and penalties
   
70.08   Definitions
   
70.09   ATV permission posted
   
70.10   Referenced statutes and rules
   
70.11   Snowmobiles
   
70.12   Responsibility
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; OPERATION AND CONVEYANCE
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   Subject to the provisions of this chapter and Oregon law, Class I, II and IV
All-Terrain Vehicles may be operated on designated city streets subject to the
conditions and restrictions set forth under O.R.S. 821.200. This chapter does
not apply to or restrict vehicles under O.R.S. 821.191 used for agricultural
purposes.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.02 PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   Public roads within the city limits and not accepted as and designated
as city streets and any road under the jurisdiction of another governmental
entity or agency are excluded from and not covered by this chapter.
   (B)   All-Terrain Vehicles are prohibited from operating under this chapter
on Oregon State Highway 203 and Highway 237 as located within the city limits
of Union, except that a person may, while operating an ATV, cross the above
highway to the extent permitted under applicable Oregon law, including, without
limitation, O.R.S. 821.200(1).
   (C)   Designation of closed roadways will be at the sole discretion of the
Union City Council.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.03 OPERATOR REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The operator of the allowed All-Terrain Vehicle must be 16 years of
age or older and hold a valid state issued driver's license.
      (1)   Licensed drivers must comply with all license restrictions.
      (2)   A person may not operate an ATV under this chapter while the
person's driving privileges (i.e. driver's license) are suspended or revoked.
   (B)   The operator must have received and passed a safety certification and
have an Oregon ATV Safety Education Card.
   (C)   A person operating a Class I All-Terrain Vehicle under this chapter
must hold a valid Class I ATV Operator Permit issued under O.R.S. 390.570. A
person operating a Class IV All-Terrain Vehicle under this chapter must hold a
valid Class IV ATV Operator Permit issued under O.R.S. 390.577.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.04 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All-Terrain Vehicles operated under this chapter must be equipped with
the safety equipment required under all applicable Traffic Laws, including,
without limitation, O.R.S. 821.030, O.R.S. 821.040, O.R.S. 821.220, O.R.S.
821.230, and OAR 735-116-0000.
   (B)   The All-Terrain Vehicle must be equipped with rearview mirrors,
brakes, display headlights and taillights, horns, minimum of 150 cc engine
capability, and pennant to attract attention.
   (C)   Mufflers in Oregon must be maintained at 99 decibels (db) and be in
compliance with O.R.S. 467.030 and OAR 340-035-0030.
   (D)   All-Terrain Vehicles operated under this chapter must meet the
financial responsibility requirements under O.R.S. 806.060. For purposes of
this chapter, "financial responsibility requirements" means the ability to
respond in damages for liability, on account of accidents arising out of the
ownership, operation, maintenance, and/or use of an ATV, in a manner provided
under O.R.S. 806.060.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.05 VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   All-Terrain Vehicles operating under this chapter must be operated in
compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and
ordinances, including, without limitation, all applicable Traffic Law
requirements (including, without limitations, O.R.S. 811.255) and all posted
speed limits. It is the responsibility of the operator to be aware of which
city streets are open to use by All-Terrain Vehicles.
   (B)   Any operator or passenger must wear a Motorcycle Helmet with a
fastened chin strap while operating or riding as a passenger on an ATV without
seatbelts and roll bars or cages when operated under this chapter. All
operators and passengers under the age of 18 must wear a Motorcycle Helmet with
a fastened chin strap while operating or riding as a passenger on any ATV,
whether equipped with seatbelts or roll bars or cages, operated under this
chapter.
   (C)   A person must be properly secured with a safety belt or safety harness
while operating or riding as a passenger on an ATV operated under this chapter
if such ATV was required to be equipped with safety belts or safety harnesses
at the time the ATV was manufactured or safety belts or safety harnesses have
been installed on the ATV.
   (D)   All-Terrain Vehicles operated under this chapter must be operated in
compliance with all posted speed limits and may not be operated:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable under the existing
conditions; or
      (2)   In a negligent manner so as to endanger or cause injury, death,
and/or damage to the operator or person or property of another.
   (E)   All-Terrain Vehicles operated under this chapter shall be equipped
with headlights and taillights, which must be illuminated at all times when the
ATV is operated under this chapter. All-Terrain Vehicles may only be operated
during daylight hours unless equipped with lighted turn signals. For purposes
of this section, daylight hours mean one-half hour after sunrise to one-half
hour before sunset.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.06 LIABILITY.
   The operation of an ATV will be undertaken at the sole risk and
responsibility of the owner and/or operator. The City of Union, in adopting
this chapter, assumes no responsibility for the operation of such ATVs and will
be held harmless in any action arising from the operation of such ATVs on or
off any public way within the City of Union, including, without limitation,
roadways.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter may be through City of Union §
10.99 or by civil action as provided in O.R.S. 30.310, 30.315 or O.R.S. Chapter
203, or by any means allowed under Oregon law.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter that constitutes a violation of a
Traffic Law, then the penalty for the same shall be as provided for by Oregon
statute.
   (C)   The failure or omission to comply with any section of this chapter
shall be deemed a violation and may be so prosecuted, subject to the fines
provided in this chapter and §
10.99.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are established:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE(S) (ATV). Class I All-Terrain Vehicles, Class II All-
Terrain Vehicles, and/or Class IV All-Terrain Vehicles as such Classes are
defined under O.R.S. Chapter 801.
   ATV OPERATOR PERMIT. The ATV Safety Education Card issued upon completion of
on Oregon Parks and Recreation Department approved ATV Safety Education course
and passage of the minimum standards test of ATV Safety Education competency as
established by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department as set forth in OAR
736-004-0015(10).
   DRIVER LICENSE. The meaning given that term under O.R.S. 801.245.
   MOTORCYCLE HELMET. The meaning given that term under O.R.S. 801.366. O.R.S.
801.366 defines a MOTORCYCLE HELMET as a protective covering for the head
consisting of a hard out shell, adding adjacent to and inside the outer shell
and a chin-strap type retention system with a sticker indicating that the
motorcycle helmet meets standards established by the United States Department
of Transportation.
   TRAFFIC LAW(S). Any and all Oregon statutes and regulations relating in any
way to the operation or use of motorized vehicles, including, without
limitation, the Oregon Vehicle Code (O.R.S. Chapters 801 to 826) and any
regulations or administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.09 ATV PERMISSION POSTED.
   The city will post signs giving notice that the operation of ATVs is
permitted upon certain city streets under the provisions of this chapter. The
city will post such signs at locations necessary to inform the public that ATVs
are permitted, which sign locations will be determined by the city in its sole
discretion.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.10 REFERENCED STATUTES AND RULES.
   All references to particular laws, statutes, or rules include that law,
statute or file as now in effect or as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.11 SNOWMOBILES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter applies to snowmobiles as that term is
defined in O.R.S. 801.490.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 70.12 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is the responsibility of the ATV operator to be aware of the roadways
designated as "closed" as may be so designated in the future.
(Ord. 2020-560, passed 5-11-2020)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Short title
   
71.002   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
71.003   Definitions
Administration
   
71.020   Powers of the Council
   
71.021   Delegation of powers
   
71.022   Public danger
   
71.023   Standards
   
71.024   Authority of law enforcement and fire officers
   
71.025   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.026   Sleds on streets
   
71.027   Damaging roads, sidewalks and curbs
   
71.028   Obstructing streets
   
71.029   Hazards to public
   
71.030   Prohibited uses of streets and alleys
   
71.031   Parallel parking and angle parking
   
71.032   Prohibited parking and standing
   
71.033   Storage
   
71.034   Use of loading zone
   
71.035   Action by law enforcement
   
71.036   Standing or parking of buses and taxicabs
   
71.037   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
71.038   Extension of parking time
   
71.039   Unnecessary noise
   
71.040   Exemption
Bicycles
   
71.055   Bicycle operating rules
   
71.056   Impounding of bicycles
Pedestrians
   
71.070   Use of sidewalks
   
71.071   Pedestrians must use crosswalks
   
71.072   Right angles
   
71.073   Obedience to traffic lights, bridge and railroad signals
Processions
   
71.090   Funeral processions and parades
Parking Citations and Owner Responsibility
   
71.105   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
71.106   Failure to comply with traffic citation attached to parked vehicle
   
71.107   Owner responsibility
   
71.108   Registered owner presumption
Impoundment and Penalties
   
71.125   Impoundment of vehicles
Editor’s Note:
   Ord. 424, passed 11-19-1990, which amends current code §§
71.002,
71.032,
71.055 and
71.070, was ratified, affirmed and re-adopted by Ord. 498, passed 12-12-2005.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Union Uniform Traffic Ordinance”.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.002 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Violation of provisions in O.R.S. Chapters 802, 803, 805, 806, 807, 809,
810, 811, 814, 815, 816, 818, 819, 820, 823 and O.R.S. Chapters 153 and
649.080, as now or hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against the city.
(Ord. 378, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 424, passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 523, passed 9-
13-2010)
§ 71.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLES. Vehicles left unoccupied, unclaimed, damaged, or
dismantled condition on the street right of way or alleys of the city or on any
other public or private property within the city.
      BUS STOP. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
buses loading or unloading passengers.
      DISCARDED VEHICLES. Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto an unexpired license plate and is in one or more of the following
conditions: inoperative, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, abandoned,
junked. DISCARDED VEHICLES may be deemed to include major parts thereof,
including but not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions and rear ends.
      HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Day and any other day proclaimed by the Council to be a holiday.
      LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
of specified days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self propelled, including tractors,
fork lift trucks, motorcycles, road building equipment, street cleaning
equipment and any other vehicle capable of moving under its own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws of Oregon.
      PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading property or passengers.
      PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or confined to a wheelchair.
      PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area between the edge of the traffic lane and the
boundary of the adjacent private property.
      STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
      STOP. Complete cessation from movement.
      STREET and OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
         (a)   OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. Property, whether publicly
or privately owned and whether publicly or privately maintained, upon which the
public operates motor vehicles either by express or implied invitation, other
than streets as defined above, and excepting public school property, county
property or property under the jurisdiction of the State Board of Higher
Education. Property open to public travel shall include but not be limited to
parking lots, service station lots, shopping center and supermarket parking
lots and other access ways and parking areas open to general vehicular traffic,
whether or not periodically closed to public use.
         (b)   STREET. As defined in the ordinance and the O.R.S. Chapters
incorporated by reference herein, includes alleys, sidewalks, right-of-way,
parking areas and access ways owned or maintained by the city.
      TAXICAB STAND.  A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for
use by taxicabs.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A device to direct vehicular or pedestrian
traffic and parking, including but not limited to a sign, signaling mechanism,
barricade, button or street or curb marking installed by the city or other
authority.
      TRAFFIC LANE.  That area of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of traffic.
      TRAILER. A towed devise.
      TRUCK TRACTOR.  A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and constructed so
as not to carry any load other than a part of the weigh of the vehicle or load,
or both, as drawn, as defined in O.R.S. 801.575.
      TRUCK TRAILER. Any trailer designed and used primarily for carrying loads
other than passengers whether designed as a balance trailer, pole trailer,
semi-trailer or self-supporting trailer as defined in O.R.S. 801.580.
      VEHICLE. Means any device, including animal drawn, in, upon, or by which
any person or property is or may be transported upon any road, street, highway
or parking lot.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the singular includes the plural, and the
masculine includes the feminine.
(Ord. 378, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 71.020 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city, except those powers specifically and expressly
delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of city owned or leased lots, right-of-way or property
on which public parking will be permitted;
      (5)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (6)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (7)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (8)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones; and
      (9)   Revision of speed limits in parks.
   (C)   The City Council shall, by resolution:
      (1)   Install traffic control devices to implement this chapter and other
traffic control measures. The installations shall be based on the standards
contained in the Oregon Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways;
      (2)   Establish remove or alter the following classes of traffic
controls:
         (a)   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes;
         (b)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition
applies; and
         (c)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking (e.g., parallel or diagonal).
      (3)   Issue parking permit for oversize or overweight vehicle permits;
      (4)   Establish, maintain, remove or alter traffic control signals;
      (5)   Establish, maintain, remove or alter loading zones and stops for
all vehicles;
      (6)   Designate certain streets as bridle paths and prohibit horses and
animals on other streets; and
      (7)   Temporarily block or close streets.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.021 DELEGATION OF POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council may delegate powers set forth in §
71.020 at its discretion. Duties exercised thereafter by law enforcement or his
or her designate shall be reported to the Council at the regular meeting
immediately following their implementation, and the Council may reject or
modify the action.
   (B)   This reporting requirement may be dispensed with when the Council so
orders.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.022 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, law enforcement or his
or her designate may install temporary control devices deemed by him or her to
be necessary.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.023 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of law enforcement or his or her designate shall be based
upon:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the State Highway
Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic control standards.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.024 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of law enforcement or his or her designate to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, law enforcement and
Fire Departments may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.025 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or
other device shall attach the device or himself or herself to a moving vehicle
upon a street. Nor shall the operator of a vehicle upon a street knowingly
allow a person riding on any of the above vehicles or devices to attach himself
or herself, the vehicle or the device to his or her vehicle.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.026 SLEDS ON STREETS.
   No person shall use the streets for traveling on downhill skis, toboggans,
sleds, snowmobiles or similar devices, except where authorized.
(Ord 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.027 DAMAGING ROADS, SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood or other material in the
gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it as
a driveway or parking pad without the inspection and consent of the city.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
device moved by a motor vehicle upon a curb or sidewalk without first obtaining
authorization and posting bond, if required. A person who causes damage shall
be held responsible for the cost of repair.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.028 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall obstruct the free movement of vehicles or
pedestrians using the streets.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in such manner or location
that it constitutes a hazard to public safety or an obstruction on the street.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.029 HAZARDS TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or
other debris to be upon a street shall remove the glass and other debris from
the street.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand any dead
or decaying tree that is a hazard to public or to persons or property on or
near the property.
   (C)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow overgrowth of
trees, shrubbery, or any type of vegetation to encroach onto a street or
sidewalk. In addition see clear vision standards Ordinance 337, section 4.020,
codified as §
155.01, and Ordinance 521.
   (D)   No person shall deposit upon any street or public sidewalk any kind of
rubbish, trash, debris, refuse or any substance that would mar the appearance,
create a stench, create a fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety
of such street or sidewalk, or would be likely to injure a person, animal or
vehicle traveling upon such street or sidewalk.
   (E)   It is the duty of an owner of land adjacent to the public right-of-way
in the city to construct, reconstruct, repair, and keep right-of-way clear of
leaves, ice, snow, and all other obstructions or hazards to the public which
are reasonably removable on all sidewalks and driveways adjacent to the land.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.030 PROHIBITED USES OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No owner or person in charge of property abutting a street or alley shall
allow, in the street or alley abutting his or her property:
   (A)   The growth of noxious weeds or grass over the height of ten inches;
   (B)   Trash, garbage or personal property to collect;
   (C)   Landscaping or planting of trees and shrubs; and
   (D)   Parking of loaded truck tractor and truck trailer, see §
71.032(A)(8).
(Ord. 385, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.031 PARALLEL PARKING AND ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   In areas with curb and sidewalks, except in angle parking zones
designated by resolution of the City Council, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in
the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the curb or shoulder.
   (B)   In those areas designated angle parking zones, no vehicle shall be
positioned so that it protrudes into the main-traveled portion of the roadway.
In addition see clear vision standards Ordinance 337, section 4.020, codified
as §
155.01, and Ordinance 521.
(Ord. 391, passed 2-10-1985; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.032 PROHIBITED PARKING AND STANDING.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 811 prohibiting
parking, no person shall park or stand:
      (1)   A vehicle in an alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials, but in no case for a period in excess of 30
consecutive minutes;
      (2)   A vehicle upon a parkway or freeway, except as authorized;
      (3)   A vehicle upon private property without the consent of the owner or
persons in charge of the private property;
      (4)   Parking on a public street in a C-1 Commercial Zone for more than
24 consecutive hours;
      (5)   Parking on a public street in a Residential Zone for more than 72
consecutive hours;
      (6)   Vehicle in a manner such that the front of the vehicle is facing
the oncoming traffic on the side of the street, avenue, parkway, freeway or
highway;
      (7)   Within 15 feet of an intersection, except for highway 203 and 237
shall follow O.R.S. provisions; and
      (8)   No person shall drive a loaded truck tractor, truck trailer, or a
combination of a truck tractor and a truck trailer as defined in this chapter,
except:
         (a)   On Main Street (HWY 203 and 237) for up to 24 hours or when City
Council has designated an alternative location;
         (b)   When the city street has been designated by resolution, as a
truck route by the City Council, pursuant to this chapter;
         (c)   When the truck tractor and/or trailer combination is in the
process of conducting business to a location that exists upon a city street
that has not been designated as a truck route and then only by entering such
streets at the intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and leaving
by the shortest route; or
         (d)   Operate or run an empty motor truck tractor, as defined by
O.R.S. 801.355, on a street between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the
following day in front of or adjacent to a residence, motel, apartment house,
hotel or other sleeping accommodation. There is a ten-minute time limit that a
motor truck tractor can sit idled in these locations.
   (B)   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle or trailer
to be parked upon a street or right-of-way for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Repairing vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle, except for painted, vinyl
or magnetic signs on the body of the vehicle;
      (4)   Construction vehicles or trailers unless authorized during the pre-
build application process;
      (5)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized or
permitted;
      (6)   Living in, vacationing in, except when permitted;
      (7)   Storage, or as junk or dead storage, for more than 24 hours; and
      (8)   Discarded vehicles.
(Ord. 424, passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 531, passed 5-
13-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.033 STORAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle
upon any private property within the city unless the vehicle is completely
enclosed within a building or fence, or unless it is in connection with a
business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted with the
city. All vehicles will have sight securing from the right-of-way(s) and other
private property.
   (B)   The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote
blight, deterioration and unsightliness, to invite plundering, to create fire
hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of
a discarded vehicle on private or public property is declared to constitute a
public nuisance, which may be abated in accordance with the provisions of the
chapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.034 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time,
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or materials, in
a place designated as a loading zone when the hours applicable to that loading
zone are in effect. In no case, when the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect, shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the
time limits posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone
shall not exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 513, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.035 ACTION BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a police officer shall find a motor vehicle parked unattended with
the ignition key in the vehicle, the law enforcement is authorized to remove
the key from the vehicle and deliver the key to the person in charge.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.036 STANDING OR PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon a
street in a business district at a place other than a bus stop or taxicab
stand, respectively; except that this provision shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping his or her vehicle outside a traffic
lane while loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.037 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a taxicab in a taxicab
stand, or a bus in a bus stop; except that the operator of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading passengers, when stopping does not interfere with a bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.038 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a
vehicle within a block shall not extend the time limits for parking.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.039 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway unless it is
equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke. No person shall operate,
and no owner of any motor vehicle shall permit to be operated upon any public
road, street or highway, any motor vehicle so as to cause any greater noise or
sound than reasonably necessary for the proper operation of such motor vehicle.
   (B)   The use of exhaust brakes (jake brakes), except in an emergency or
except when used by a person operating an emergency services vehicle equipped
with a muffled compression braking system, is prohibited at all times within
the city.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 551, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.040 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to a vehicle of the city, county, state or public
utility while necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street,
or a vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation or delivery of mail.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
BICYCLES
§ 71.055 BICYCLE OPERATING RULES.
   In addition to the provisions of O.R.S. 814.400 through 814.480, a rider of
a bicycle upon a street shall:
   (A)   Not ride upon a sidewalk within the city;
   (B)   Upon emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrians;
   (C)   On a two-way street, ride to the extreme right, except when preparing
for a left turn. On a one-way street, ride to the extreme curbside of the
traffic lane and with the direction of travel designated for that lane. If the
curb lane is designated for a left turn or a right turn only, and the operator
is not intending to turn, he or she shall operate in the through lane;
   (D)   Not operate a bicycle in a careless or reckless manner, which
endangers or would be likely to endanger himself or herself, another or any
property. Racing or trick riding shall be included in this offense; and
   (E)   Not leave a bicycle, except in a bicycle rack. If no rack is provided,
he or she shall leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway, sidewalk,
driveway or building entrance. Nor shall he or she leave the bicycle in
violation of the provisions relating to the parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 424, passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.056 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to leave a bicycle on private property without
the consent of the person in charge or the owner thereof.
   (B)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of 24 hours
may be impounded by law enforcement.
   (C)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this chapter may be immediately impounded by law enforcement.
   (D)   If a bicycle impounded under this chapter is licensed, or other means
of determining its ownership exist, the police shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner. An impounding fee will be charged to the owner. No impounding
fee shall be charged to the owner of a stolen bicycle which has been impounded.
   (E)   A bicycle impounded under this chapter which remains unclaimed shall
be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.070 USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   A pedestrian shall not use a roadway for travel when a sidewalk is
available.
(Ord. 424, passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see O.R.S. Chapter 814
§ 71.071 PEDESTRIANS MUST USE CROSSWALKS.
   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than within a crosswalk as
described by O.R.S. 801.220.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.072 RIGHT ANGLES.
   A pedestrian shall cross a street at a right angle, unless crossing within a
crosswalk.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.073 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LIGHTS, BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   At an intersection where a pedestrian control light is in operation,
no pedestrian shall start to cross the street except when the walk signal is
illuminated. Where only vehicle control lights are in operation, no pedestrian
shall start to cross the street except when the green light is illuminated.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon a railroad grade crossing, an
operable bridge or the approach thereto, beyond a crossing gate or barrier,
after an operation signal indication has been given.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under a crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROCESSIONS
§ 71.090 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS AND PARADES.
   (A)   A permit shall not be required to conduct a funeral procession.
   (B)   The procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the most
direct route which is both legal and practicable.
   (C)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
   (E)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (F)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
   (G)   Parades on any city street are required to have a certificate of
insurance by a certified agency. A copy of the certificate will be provided to
the city prior to the event.
   (H)   Parades on Main Street - Highway 203 or 237 are required to have an
Oregon Department of Transportation permit. ODOT permits will be provided to
the city prior to the event.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 71.105 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take
its license number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which may
identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a traffic
citation for the operator to answer to the charge against him or her or pay the
penalty imposed within 72 hours during the hours and at a place specified in
the citation.
(Ord. 378, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.106 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If the operator does not respond to a traffic citation affixed to the
vehicle within a period of five days, the City Recorder may send to the owner
of the vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter, informing
him or her of the violation and warning him or her that, in the event that the
letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant for his or her
arrest will be issued.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.107 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle placed in violation of a parking restriction shall be
responsible for the offense, except where the use of the vehicle was secured by
the operator without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 71.108 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a prosecution of a vehicle owner, charging a violation of a restriction
on parking, proof that the vehicle at the time of the violation was registered
to the defendant shall constitute a presumption that he or she was then the
owner in fact.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
IMPOUNDMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 71.125 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that constitutes
an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, law enforcement shall
order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it. If the vehicle is
unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and stored at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and storing,
notwithstanding that the vehicle was parked by another, or that the vehicle was
initially parked in a safe manner but subsequently became an obstruction or
hazard.
   (B)   The disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under authority of this
section shall be in accordance with the provisions relating to impoundment and
disposition of vehicles abandoned on the city streets.
   (C)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (E)   Whenever a law enforcement observes a vehicle parked in violation of a
provision of this chapter, if the vehicle has four or more unpaid parking
violations outstanding against it, the officer may, in addition to issuing a
citation, cause the vehicle to be impounded. A vehicle so impounded shall not
be released until all outstanding fines and charges have been paid. Vehicles
impounded under authority of this section shall be disposed of in the same
manner as provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. 523, passed 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restriction
SCHEDULE I: RESTRICTION.
 
Parking
Ord./Res. No. Date of Enactment Restriction
                                Temporary no parking zone; north side of East
Res. 85-9     7-8-1985          Delta from Benson Street to EOLS grounds; as
                                declared by Chief of Police
 
(Ord. 295, passed 10-21-1974)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   AMUSEMENTS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION AND REGULATION
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   INSPECTION WARRANTS FOR PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
96.   PUBLIC PARKS
      
97.   ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS AND NUISANCE BUILDINGS
      
98.   NOXIOUS VEGETATION
      
99.   REGULATING SOLID AND OTHER WASTES
      
100.   REGULATING LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE
CHAPTER 90: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
90.01   Regulating the conduct of dances, presence of minors and hours
§ 90.01 REGULATING THE CONDUCT OF DANCES, PRESENCE OF MINORS AND HOURS.
   (A)   Dance regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation having the management, custody, supervision or control of any
public dance within the City of Union, Oregon, to:
      (1)   Permit any lewd, obscene dance or any dance in its nature offensive
to common decency;
      (2)   Permit any minor child under the age of 18 years of age to engage
in any dance or remain on the premises where the dance is taking place past the
hour of 12:00 midnight on Friday or Saturday night, or on any night immediately
preceding a holiday, or past the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any other night, unless
the minor child is accompanied by his or her parent or duly and legally
appointed guardian;
      (3)   Permit any intoxicated person or person under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to remain in any place where the dance is taking place;
      (4)   Allow any person attending the dance to leave the premises where
the dance is taking place and to reenter the premises without the payment of
regular admission fee upon each reentry;
      (5)   Allow any intoxicating beverages in any place where the dance is
taking place; and
      (6)   Conduct any dance in the noisy or boisterous manner as to
constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Supervision. There shall be in constant attendance at every public
dance throughout the hours thereof, an attendant who shall be deputized by the
Union Chief of Police to assist in maintaining order and see that the
provisions of this section are complied with. The attendant shall be furnished
by the person, firm or corporation in charge of the dance and shall be paid by
the person, firm or corporation.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Police Department of the City of Union is charged
with the enforcement of the provisions of this section and shall have the
unrestricted right to enter upon the premises where any dance is taking place
in order to insure compliance therewith.
   (D)   Misrepresentation of age. It shall be unlawful for any person to
misrepresent or misstate his or her age to any person having the management,
custody, control or supervision of any public dance, or for the person to
misstate or misrepresent his or her relationship to any person claimed to be a
parent or guardian.
   (E)   Curfew. It shall be unlawful for any minor child under the age of 18
years to remain on the premises where the dance is taking place after the hour
of 12:00 midnight on Friday or Saturday night, or any night immediately
preceding a holiday or past the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any other night.
(Ord. 257, passed 11-8-1965) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Licensing of Dogs and the Control of Dogs and Livestock
   
91.01   Delegation of authority and adoption of fees
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Provision of animal control services
   
91.04   Licensing
   
91.05   Kennel licensing
   
91.06   Rabies control; bite quarantine
   
91.07   Public nuisance
   
91.08   Dog at large
   
91.09   Impoundment
   
91.10   Animal cruelty; in addition to O.R.S. Chapter 167
   
91.11   Animal abandonment
   
91.12   Identification and classification of dangerous or aggressive dogs
   
91.13   Notification to owner of dangerous or aggressive dogs
   
91.14   Regulation of dangerous or aggressive dogs
   
91.15   Appeal procedures for aggressive and dangerous dogs
   
91.16   Cost of injured animals or carcass removal
   
91.17   Keeping of wild and exotic animals
   
91.18   Dangerous animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 131
LICENSING OF DOGS AND THE CONTROL OF DOGS AND LIVESTOCK
§ 91.01 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND ADOPTION OF FEES.
   (A)   the City of Union hereby delegates to Union County, full authority and
responsibility to administer and enforce this subchapter. References in this
chapter to “Sheriff’, “Deputy”, “Enforcement Officer”, “County Animal Control
Services”, “Animal Control Division”, County Hearings Section, Justice Court,
Hearings Officer, and “County Health Officer” shall be references to those
persons and entities of Union County.
   (B)   The City of Union hereby delegates to the Union County Justice Court
the court functions and duties provided for such Court as set forth in this
chapter.
   (C)   The licenses required by this chapter shall be issued by Union County.
   (D)   Notwithstanding provisions within this chapter for the adoption by
resolution of fees, penalties, fines, deposits, and, assessments (collectively
referred to in this division as “fees”), the City of Union hereby adopts as
initial fees, those which are referred to in this chapter. Fees which are
referred to but are not stated in a dollar amount are hereby initially set at
the amount currently adopted by the Union County Board of Commissioners. Such
initial fees may be amended by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT DOG. Any dog having a set of permanent canine teeth, or past the age
of six months.
   AGGRESSIVE DOG. See §
91.12.
   ANIMAL. Any member of the classes of reptiles, birds or mammals except man.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility which is used to house or contain stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals, and which is owned, operated or
maintained by a public body, an established humane society, animal welfare
society, or a society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or other
nonprofit or profit organization devoted to the welfare, protection, and humane
treatment of animals. Management policy will determine animals to be accepted
at the ANIMAL SHELTER.
   AT LARGE. Any dog off the premises of the owner and not under the control of
either the owner or a person authorized by the owner.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility; an
animal of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the
habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter.
   DANGEROUS DOG. See §
91.12.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee or a designee of the county hired for the
purpose of enforcing this chapter and any state or federal regulations that may
be applicable.
   KENNEL. A private residence with four or more adult dogs.
   LAWFUL. In regard to herding, hunting, competition or training, means to be
engaged in such activity on the property of another by permission, or on public
land that is set aside and/or open for such use.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than eight feet in length by which
an animal is physically controlled by the person accompanying it, and which is
of a strength to restrain the animal.
   LICENSE TAG or TAG. A pre-numbered identification license sold to an owner/
custodian for a specific pet animal. Rabies identification or other
identification may not be substituted or accepted in lieu of a LICENSE TAG.
   LIVESTOCK. As defined by O.R.S. 609.125.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, caring for or having a right
of possession to one or more dogs. For purposes of determining responsibility
for dogs creating a nuisance, a dog shall be deemed to be harbored and owned if
it is fed or sheltered for seven consecutive days or more. If a person decides
to keep a stray, and the dog is old enough to be licensed, it shall be licensed
within 30 days. In a family setting, the OWNER is presumed to be the head of
the family or the person whose name appears on a license registration, a rabies
vaccination form, or lacking other means of determination, the OWNER or
leaseholder of the property where the dog is kept.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other legal
entity.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dog that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life
or health of other animals or persons, or substantially interfere with the
rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property.
The owner shall be personally liable for a dog that becomes a PUBLIC NUISANCE
and shall be financially liable for actions of his or her dog.
   RESTRAINT. Any dog secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to the person’s commands, or under competent
voice control. RESTRAINT may include a pet carrier or other device sufficient
to keep the dog from running at large.
   UNDER CONTROL. The voice, signal or physical control so as to be restrained
from approaching a bystander, from entering private property, and from causing
damage to property. A dog is presumed not to have been under control if injury,
damage or trespass has occurred.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. An establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS. See §
91.17.
(Ord. 464, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.03 PROVISION OF ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES.
   The animal control services to be provided by this chapter may include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Establishing and maintaining a dog licensing program for domestic
dogs;
   (B)   Capture and control of all types of dogs running loose within the
city;
   (C)   Investigation, reporting and, where necessary, issuance of summons to
owners on complaints of animals being kept in unsanitary, unhealthy,
inappropriate or other unlawful conditions;
   (D)   Disposal of all abandoned dogs by adoption or euthanasia; and
   (E)   Provide a shelter for homeless animals.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.04 LICENSING.
   (A)   No person may own, harbor, keep or have custody of any dog over the
age of six months unless the dog has a current license. Animal Shelters and
foster homes are exempt from licensing.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire one year from the date of issue and may be
renewed within 30 days of expiration without penalty.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any owner to use a license tag for any dog other
than the one for which it has been issued. If there is a change of ownership of
a licensed dog, the new owner must apply for and obtain a new license.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to steal or remove the license tag from
any dog.
   (E)   It is unlawful to make any false statements for the purpose of
securing a lesser license fee.
   (F)   The keeping of dogs within the limits of the City of Union is
forbidden unless the owners or keepers thereof shall procure a license for each
dog. In any prosecution for a violation of this section or for determining the
length of time an animal must be kept in impoundment, the absence of a tag
appended to a dog’s collar shall be prima facie evidence that the dog has not
been legally licensed.
   (G)   Annual license fees shall be established by Union County and/or the
Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 KENNEL LICENSING.
   (A)   Land use. The issuance of a license for a kennel shall not constitute
approval of the land use nor be evidence of compliance with land use
restrictions or regulations which may apply to the operation or location of the
proposed kennel. Applicants must have zoning approval from The City of Union,
prior to requesting a kennel license from the Sheriff’s Office.
   (B)   Licensing requirement. No person shall operate a kennel without first
obtaining an annual license from Union County and/or Animal Shelter for each
kennel operated. Kennel licenses are not required in resource zones of Union
County. Fees shall be established Union County and/or animal shelter.
   (C)   License procedure. Upon receipt of an application for a dog kennel
license, the Enforcement Officer or Sheriff/Deputy shall inspect the facility,
and upon determination that the facility complies with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and other applicable city, state, or federal laws,
shall issue a license. The Sheriff’s Office shall approve or deny an
application made under this chapter within 60 days of its receipt and the
payment of the applicable fees, or the application shall be deemed approved for
the current year, subject only to revocation as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Display of license. Each dog in the kennel over the age of six months
shall wear a license tag provided by the Animal Control Division. Each dog
shall have a license form but the fee shall be the single fee set for kennels.
   (E)   Denial and revocation of license. A kennel license required under this
section may be denied or revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to comply substantially with any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Conviction of the owner or any person subject to his or her
direction or control for the violation of any provision of this chapter or
other applicable state or federal law, rule, order or regulation pertaining to
any activity relating to animals;
      (3)   Furnishing false information on the application for a license under
this chapter: or
      (4)   Denial of kennel zoning request by the City of Union where the dog
owner resides.
   (F)   Appeal from denial or revocation of license. If an application for a
kennel license is denied (for any reason other than Division (E)(4) of this
section) or approved subject to conditions, or revoked, the applicant may
appeal denial, conditional approval, or revocation to Union City Council no
later than 15 days after the date of the decision by the Sheriff or Enforcement
Officer. Zoning refusal by the city is subject to the appeal process that is in
place for land-use appeals. The Board shall provide a hearing for the applicant
within 30 days of notice of appeal. Notice of hearing by the Board shall be
mailed to the applicant by certified mail no later than ten days prior to the
hearing. A decision by the Board resulting from an appeal under this section
shall be reviewable only as provided in O.R.S. Chapter 34.
   (G)   Inspection. A kennel licensed under this chapter shall be subject to
inspection by the Sheriff or Enforcement Officer at any time for the purpose of
determining compliance with this chapter. The Sheriff or Enforcement Officer
shall have the right to inspect the facility itself, as well as all records and
other documents required to be kept by this chapter.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.06 RABIES CONTROL; BITE QUARANTINE.
   (A)   No person may keep or harbor in the city a dog over six months of age
which is not inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian in accordance
with current accepted standards.
   (B)   Any dog afflicted with rabies or bitten by a rabid animal is a
nuisance and the owner or custodian of such dog is required immediately upon
discovery to submit the dog to veterinary treatment and guarantee its
confinement for such period and in such manner as directed by the County Health
Officer, a licensed veterinarian, or Enforcement Officer, Sheriff, or other
Peace Officer.
   (C)   The County Health Officer may direct the detention of dogs suspected
of having rabies, in accordance with Health Department administrative rules.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other portion of this chapter, any dog
impounded for biting a person shall be held for not less than ten days before
redemption or destruction to determine if the dog is rabid.
   (D)   The owner of a dog who bites a human being shall notify the Sheriff
within 24 hours of such bite, giving the name and address of the person bitten,
if known.
   (E)   Any person who is bitten by a dog shall notify the Sheriff of such
bite within 24 hours, giving a description of the dog and the name and address
of such owner if known.
   (F)   When a doctor, veterinarian, shelter employee, or hospital employee
has information that a person has been bitten by a dog, such person shall
notify the Sheriff within 24 hours.
   (G)   All other animal bites shall be reported to the Union County Health
Department, by the person bitten, their doctor or a hospital.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of a dog shall not allow the animal to be a public
nuisance as defined in this chapter. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE DOG shall mean
and include, but is not limited to, any dog that:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
      (4)   Chases vehicles;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining for more than 15 minutes or
intermittent barking for more than 30 minutes in a 60 minute period, causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored. If the
barking is caused by the presence of predators such as coyotes, deer or other
wildlife, or by a person intentionally taunting the dog, then the dog is not a
public nuisance;
      (6)   Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the dog is kept or harbored;
      (7)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where
the dog is kept or harbored;
      (8)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare
by virtue of the number and/or types of dogs maintained;
      (9)   Attacks livestock or companion animals not belonging to the dog
owner;
      (10)   Scatters garbage; and/or
      (11)   Is a female in heat and running at large.
   (B)   Any person who has cause to believe a dog is being maintained as a
public nuisance may complain, either orally or in writing, to the Sheriffs
Department or County Animal Control Services. The complaint shall be considered
sufficient cause for the Sheriff or Deputy to investigate the matter and
determine if the owner or keeper of the dog is in violation of this section or
other sections of this chapter pertaining to nuisance.
   (C)   Every reasonable effort will be made to see that every female dog in
heat is confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such
female dog cannot come into contact with another dog, except for planned
breeding.
   (D)   Any dog whose owner allows or permits their animal to deposit excreta
on public areas, recreation areas or on private property not belonging to the
owner is hereby declared to be a nuisance and the owner shall be responsible
for the removal of the excreta. In lieu of or in addition to removal of the
excreta, the owner or custodian may be cited by an Enforcement Officer or the
Sheriff for violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Each day a nuisance exists may be an additional cause for a citation.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.08 DOG AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog to cause,
permit or allow such dog to roam, run, stray or be away from the premises of
such owner or custodian and to be on any public place, any public property or
the private property of another within the city. An owner or custodian of a dog
may take it off the owner’s or custodian’s premises provided the dog is under
restraint. Any dog found roaming, running, straying, or being away from the
owner or custodian’s premises and not on a leash or under control as herein
provided, is hereby declared to be at large, and such dog may be seized and
impounded subject to the redemption provisions of this chapter. In lieu of, or
in addition to, impounding a dog, the owner or custodian may be cited by a
Deputy or the Sheriff for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition contained in division (A) of this section shall not
apply to dogs that are under control while engaged in one of the following:
      (1)   Lawful herding of farm animals;
      (2)   Lawful hunting activities;
      (3)   Lawful competition sanctioned by a nationally recognized body or a
local chapter thereof; or
      (4)   Lawful training in preparation for such herding, hunting, or
competitive activities.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   At large dogs may be lawfully taken by any person and impounded in the
animal shelter. The person must notify the shelter staff of the owner’s name
and address, if known.
   (B)   Impoundment register. The Sheriff or shelter shall maintain a register
of all dogs impounded pursuant to this chapter and such register shall show the
identification tag number, if any, breed of the dog, a description of the dog
by coloring and marking, the time and date of the impoundment, the name of the
officer impounding the dog, the area in which such dog was picked up, the
method and time of notifying the owner, if known, of redemption procedures, and
if known, the disposition of the dog and the date and time thereof.
   (C)   Redemption. An owner reclaiming an impounded dog shall pay impoundment
fees and board fees in accordance with a resolution adopted by the county. If
the dog is required to be licensed, the fees shall be paid at the time of
redemption, and the tags issued upon presentation of proof of rabies
vaccination. If, the person reclaiming the dog has outstanding unpaid tickets
(tickets not pending hearing appeal), those must also be paid prior to the
release of the dog.
   (D)   Impounded dogs shall be released to owners or custodians on
presentation of proof of ownership, and proof that all appropriate fees have
been paid. Any dog apprehended or turned into the shelter for impoundment shall
be held for a minimum of five days. Any dog wearing a collar with a valid
license tag shall be held for a minimum of five days, and the Deputy or shelter
shall make reasonable effort to contact the owner. Any dog not redeemed during
the required holding period shall be deemed to have been surrendered to the
animal shelter for disposition.
   (E)   Seriously injured, diseased, or wild dogs need not be detained for the
holding period, but with the concurrence of a veterinarian or certified
euthanasia technician may be disposed of in a humane manner at any time. Not
withstanding the provisions of any other portion of this chapter, any dog
impounded for biting a person shall be held for not less than ten days before
redemption or destruction, to determine if the dog is rabid, unless the owner
shows proof of current rabies vaccination and has an adequate area for home
quarantine. This determination will be made by the Deputy or Sheriff.
   (F)   Any impounded dog, following the holding periods, and dogs voluntarily
surrendered to the animal shelter, shall be disposed of in a humane manner, or,
at the discretion of the shelter manager, may be held for a longer period to
allow for adoption. No dogs shall be knowingly sold or given away by the county
or its designee for the purposes of animal experimentation.
   (G)   Other animals may be impounded at the shelter’s discretion.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.10 ANIMAL CRUELTY; IN ADDITION TO O.R.S. CHAPTER 167.
   The following, singly or together, are deemed to constitute cruel treatment
to animals. Therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Tether, confine, or restrain any dog in such a way as to permit the
dog to become frequently entangled in such tether, or render the dog incapable
of consuming food or water provided for it; while at the same time allowing
adequate space for freedom of movement necessary when tethered for extended
periods of time; the tether to be not shorter than three times the length of
the dog measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail;
   (B)   Confining a dog within or on a motor vehicle or other enclosure or
structure when unattended and under such conditions as may endanger the health
and well being of the animal. Such conditions include, but are not limited to,
dangerous temperature, lack of food or water, and confinement with a vicious
dog; or
   (C)   Knowingly placing food of any description containing poisonous or
other injurious ingredients in any location likely to be accessible to
domesticated animals or livestock.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 ANIMAL ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   ABANDONMENT is defined as dropping off or leaving an animal on the
street, road, or highway, or in a public place, or the private property of
another person, firm, corporation; or in the case of a dog impounded at the
animal shelter, a dog is presumed to be abandoned by its owner if they have
taken no affirmative action to redeem the dog for a period of five days from
the date of notice of impoundment.
   (B)   Animals may be left at the shelter by arrangement with shelter staff.
If the owner refuses to redeem or pay fees for his animal, the owner may be
cited for abandonment and the dog will be placed for adoption.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.12 IDENTIFICATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF DANGEROUS OR AGGRESSIVE DOGS.
   (A)   Aggressive - Level 1. A dog shall be classified as Aggressive Level 1
if while at large, or secured in such a manner as to reach a public right-of-
way, or secured in such a manner as to interfere with a legal right of entry to
the dog owner’s property the dog does menace, chase, display threatening or
aggressive behavior or otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of any person
or, while at large, threaten or cause injury to any domestic animal.
   (B)   Aggressive - Level 2. A dog shall be classified as Aggressive Level 2
if while at large or secured in such a manner as to reach a public right-of-
way, or secured in such a manner as to interfere with a legal right of entry to
the dog owner’s property the dog does aggressively bite or cause physical
injury to any person, or while at large kills any domestic animal.
   (C)   Dangerous. A dog shall be classified as dangerous if, whether or not
confined, causes serious physical injury or death to a person; or is used in
the commission of a crime; or is an Aggressive Level 2 dog that repeats the
behavior after the owner is notified of the designation.
   (D)   No dog shall be classified as dangerous or aggressive, even if the dog
has engaged in these behaviors, upon a determination that the behavior was
caused by abuse or torment of the dog, or criminal activity on the part of any
victim.
   (E)   No dog shall be found to be dangerous or aggressive if it is a dog
trained for law enforcement purposes and is on duty under the control of a
peace officer.
   (F)   A Deputy or the Sheriff shall determine whether any dog has engaged in
the behaviors specified in divisions (A) through (C) of this section. The
determination shall be based upon an investigation that includes observation of
the dog’s behavior by a Deputy or the Sheriff, or by other witnesses who
personally observed the behavior. Observations must be in writing attesting to
the observed behavior.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.13 NOTIFICATION TO OWNER OF DANGEROUS OR AGGRESSIVE DOGS.
   The Sheriff’s Officer shall give the dog’s owner written notice by certified
mail or personal service that includes the following:
   (A)   The dog’s specific behavior;
   (B)   The dog’s dangerous or aggressive classification; and
   (C)   Restrictions applicable because of the dog’s classification.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.14 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS OR AGGRESSIVE DOGS.
   (A)   Aggressive - Level 1. 
      (1)   Dogs classified as Aggressive Level 1 shall be restrained at all
times by a physical device or structure, in a manner that prevents the dog from
reaching any public sidewalk or adjoining property
and must be located so as not to interfere with the public’s legal access to
the owner’s property, whenever that dog is outside the owner’s home and not on
a leash.
      (2)   The dog shall be licensed and the license renewed as required.
      (3)   Change of residence by owner or keeper or change of ownership of
the dog shall be reported to the animal control agency. A new owner shall be
subject to the same restrictions for the dog as the original owner.
   (B)   Aggressive - Level 2.
      (1)   Dogs classified as Aggressive Level 2 shall be confined within a
secure enclosure whenever the dog is not on a leash or inside the owner’s and/
or keeper’s home. The secure enclosure must be located so as not to interfere
with the public’s legal access to the owner’s/keeper’s property.
      (2)   The dog shall not be off the property unless it is restrained and
under the control of a capable person.
      (3)   The owner or keeper shall purchase and post a “beware of dog” sign
at all entrances to the property if the behavior involved humans.
      (4)   The dog shall be licensed and the license renewed as required.
      (5)   Change of residence by the owner or keeper or change of ownership
of the dog shall be reported to the animal control agency. A new owner shall be
subject to the same restrictions as the original owner of the dog.
      (6)   To ensure proper identification of the dog, the dog shall be micro
chipped at the owner’s expense.
      (7)   The dog shall be sterilized at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Dangerous.
      (1)   A dog classified as dangerous shall be euthanized not less than ten
days after classification to allow for rabies quarantine, unless appealed.
      (2)   The dog shall be impounded upon receipt by the owner or keeper of
written notice of classification, pending completion of any appeals.
      (3)   Where the subject dog has been impounded and an appeal has been
filed, the owner or keeper of the dog shall be required to post a deposit of
$150 at the time the appeal is requested towards the expense of sheltering the
animal during the appeal process.
      (4)   If the Sheriff’s classification of the dog as dangerous is upheld
on appeal, the owner shall be liable for the cost of the dog’s impoundment, and
all fees incurred for sheltering and caring for the dog, or forfeit any amount
remaining of the original deposit.
      (5)   If the Sheriff’s classification of dangerous is reversed on appeal,
the deposit shall be returned.
      (6)   Failure to file an appeal as provided or unexcused failure of a
party to appear at a duly scheduled hearing, shall constitute a waiver by the
party of any further appeal under the chapter. Upon entry of a waiver in the
record, the last decision issued by the Sheriff shall become final.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.15 APPEAL PROCEDURES FOR AGGRESSIVE AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   To appeal an aggressive or dangerous classification, the following
requirements must be met:
      (1)   Appeals must be made in writing to the Justice Court or Hearings
Officer. Appeal requests may be mailed to the Union County Justice Court, 10605
Island Avenue, Island City, OR 97850;
      (2)   A $25 appeal fee must accompany the written request;
      (3)   In all dangerous dog classification appeals, a $150 deposit must
also accompany the written request to cover the costs to shelter the dog during
the appeal process; and
      (4)   The written appeal, the $25 appeal fee, and the $150 deposit for
dangerous dog appeals must be received by the Justice Court or Hearings Officer
within ten days from the date of the notice of classification.
   (B)   Pending appeal, the owner shall comply with the restrictions specified
in the aggressive or dangerous notice. Failure to comply with these
restrictions shall be considered a violation of §
91.14.
IMPORTANT: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS UNDER THIS
SECTION WITHIN TEN DAYS FROM THE NOTICE OF CLASSIFICATION SHALL RESULT IN THE
CLASSIFICATION BEING FINAL!
   (C)   To appeal the decision of the Justice Court or Hearings Officer
regarding a dangerous dog classification, the owner may file a writ of review
with Circuit Court. All filing fees and regulations required by Circuit Court
must be met in order to schedule the hearing.
   (D)   The owner can petition the Justice Court or Hearings Officer to have
the Aggressive Level 1 and Level 2 classifications removed if no subsequent
citations have been issued for the following times:
      (1)   Aggressive - Level 1: no citations for six months; and
      (2)   Aggressive - Level 2: no citations for one year.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.16 COSTS OF INJURED ANIMALS OR CARCASS REMOVAL.
   (A)   If an injured dog requiring veterinary treatment is impounded by the
Deputy or other person and the owner can be clearly identified, the Sheriff
shall have the authority to assess the costs of the veterinary treatment to the
owner. Any owner refusing to pay such assessed costs may be cited for a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   If a Deputy or Sheriff is requested to remove a dead dog and the owner
can be clearly identified, the Sheriff shall have the authority to assess the
costs of removal and disposal to the owner; provided, however, that the cost of
removal/disposal shall be reasonably commensurate with the actual costs and
that a reasonable attempt be made to contact the dead dog’s owner prior to such
removal.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.17 KEEPING OF WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   The keeping of wild and exotic animals shall be in accordance with
O.R.S. Chapter 609.
   (B)   In addition to all exotic animals, any canine or feline hybrid will be
considered as exotic for the purposes of this chapter and shall be subject to
all provisions in addition to any state or federal restrictions.
   (C)   Canine hybrids may be licensed for the purpose of tracking and
control, but issuance of a license does not imply that the hybrid is protected
from rabies with a vaccination.
   (D)   Hybrids which have bitten a person or another animal shall be taken
into custody and immediately be humanely destroyed and the head submitted for
analysis as required by state law.
   (E)   An owner shall identify whether or not an animal is a hybrid, unless
there is other evidence to the contrary such as the breeder of the animals
stating that they are a hybrid, or other such proof, to the satisfaction of the
Deputy or Sheriff. In the event of a dispute over an animal’s breeding, the
safety of the public shall take precedence over the rights of the animal owner.
   (F)   Hybrids will not be adopted from the animal shelter. They will be
humanely destroyed as soon as possible.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 91.18 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of an animal which is dangerous to the
public health or safety shall allow the animal to be exposed in a public place.
   (B)   A dangerous animal exposed in a public place may be taken into custody
by the Police Department and before the animal is released by the city, the
Municipal Judge must find that proper precautions will be taken by the owner of
the animal to insure the public health and safety.
   (C)   A dangerous animal running-at-large, which because of fierceness of
disposition or diseased condition is too hazardous to apprehend, may be
destroyed by a peace officer or by a person acting in defense of himself or
herself, his or her family or another person.
(Ord. 354, passed 2-9-1981; Ord. 537, passed 9-8-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Union County
Sheriff’s Department. It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with
a Deputy or Sheriff in the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   ADMISSIBLE EVIDENCE. The Oregon Evidence Code shall be applicable
to hearings held for violations of county infractions.
      (2)   HEARINGS OFFICER. The Hearings Officer shall be appointed by the
Union County Board of Commissioners and is also subject to removal by the Union
County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   JUSTICE COURT. The Union County Justice Court.
   (C)   Establishment and purpose.
      (1)   A County Hearings Section with the powers and responsibilities
provided in this section, and subject to the procedures and limitations set
forth below, is hereby established.
      (2)   The County Hearings Section has been established for the purpose of
providing a convenient and practical forum for the administrative hearing and
determination of civil violations of certain county ordinances, in connection
with but not limited to dog control ordinance violations.
      (3)   The Union County Justice Court may exercise authority designated
under this chapter to the Hearings Officer.
   (D)   Organization.
      (1)   The section shall consist of the Hearings Officer and supporting
clerical staff and shall be under the general supervision of the Union County
Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Consistent with this section and other applicable law, the Board of
Commissioners may establish rules for the performance of the functions assigned
to the section.
      (3)   The compensation of the Hearings Officer shall be as established
separately by the Union County Board of Commissioners and be covered by a
personal services contract.
   (E)   Summons and complaint. The Board of Commissioners shall prescribe the
form of the summons and complaint to be used for county infractions and shall
establish procedures for proper administrative controls over disposition
thereof. The summons and complaint shall include the number and section of the
code allegedly violated, a brief description of the time, place and manner of
the infraction, indication of the maximum fine assessable for a first offense
under division (H) below, and notification as to where to appear in response to
the summons and complaint.
   (F)   Answer.
      (1)   A person who receives a summons and complaint for an infraction
shall answer such summons and complaint by (a) personally appearing to answer
at the time and place specified therein, or (b) mailing or otherwise delivering
to the place specified on or before the assigned appearance date, a signed copy
of the summons and complaint, together with a check or money order in the
amount of the scheduled fine listed therein, indicating either that the
infraction is admitted or that the infraction is denied and a hearing date will
be assigned by the Hearings Officer or Justice Court. The Hearings Officer or
Justice Court may require a part of or the full amount of the scheduled fine to
be paid before a hearing will be assigned. If the infraction is admitted, an
explanation of mitigating circumstances may be attached.
      (2)   If the person alleged to have committed the infraction fails to
answer the summons and complaint by the appearance date indicated thereon,
which shall be no sooner than seven days from the date of the summons and
complaint, or appear at the hearing as provided herein, a default shall be
entered for the scheduled fine in division (H) below. If the Hearings Officer
or Justice Court believes that an increased fine is appropriate, a hearing must
be scheduled on behalf of the defendant.
      (3)   If the Hearings Officer or Justice Court determines that an
infraction constitutes a second or subsequent offense for the defendant within
the provision of division (H) below, then the Hearings Officer or Justice Court
shall require upon default, admission, or a finding of guilt, that the fine be
enhanced in accordance with the relevant penalty.
   (G)   Hearing.
      (1)   Every hearing to determine whether a county infraction has occurred
shall be held before a Hearings Officer or Justice Court. The county must prove
the infraction occurred by a preponderance of the evidence. The hearing shall
be limited to admissible evidence. The Hearings Officer or Justice Court may
prescribe by rule or regulation the procedures for the conduct of the hearings
in conformity with applicable state statutes.
      (2)   The Hearings Officer or Justice Court has the authority to
administer oaths and take testimony of witnesses. Upon the request of the
person alleged to have committed the infraction, or upon his or her own motion,
the Hearings Officer or Justice Court may issue subpoenas in accordance with
the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure, which shall apply to procedural questions
not otherwise addressed by this section.
      (3)   The person alleged to have committed the infraction shall have the
right to cross-examine witnesses who testify and shall have the right to submit
evidence on his or her behalf, but cannot be compelled to do so.
      (4)   After due consideration of the evidence and arguments, the Hearings
Officer or Justice Court shall determine whether the infraction alleged in the
complaint has been established. When the infraction has not been established,
an order dismissing the complaint shall be entered and any prior deposit of the
scheduled fine shall be returned. When the determination is that the infraction
has been established, or if an answer admitting the infraction has been
received, an appropriate order shall be entered in the records. A copy of the
order shall be delivered to the person named in the order personally or by
mail. Any motion to reconsider the order of the Hearings Officer or Justice
Court must be filed within ten days of the original order or it may not be
heard.
      (5)   Fines collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid to the Infractions Section or Justice Court and credited to the County
Animal Control Program, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      (6)   Hearings shall be conducted at locations determined by the Union
County Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   A tape recording shall be made of the hearing unless waived by both
parties, which tape shall be retained for at least 90 days following the
hearing or final judgment on appeal.
      (8)   A hearing may be postponed at the request of any party upon written
request to the Hearings Officer or Justice Court at least 72 hours prior to the
date and time scheduled for the hearing.
   (H)   Infractions and fines. Fines for violations of this chapter shall be
established by Union County and/or Animal Shelter.
   (I)   Review. A defendant may appeal a final adverse ruling to the Union
County Circuit Court within 30 days by writ of review as provided by O.R.S.
34.010 through 34.100.
   (J)   Enforcement. Fines are payable upon receipt of the final order
declaring a fine. Fines under this chapter are a debt owing to the county and
may be collected in the same manner as any other debt as allowed by law.
(Ord. 524, passed 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION AND REGULATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption of Oregon Fire Code; enforcement; effective date
Burning Regulations
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   General regulations and prohibitions
   
92.17   Open burning allowed conditionally
   
92.18   Burning permits
   
92.19   Revocation of permits
   
92.20   Right of entry
   
92.21   Responsibility; penalties; enforcement
   
92.22   Abatement and assessment of costs
   
92.23   Discontinuance
   
92.24   Use of wood stoves restricted
   
92.25   Explosives storage
   
92.26   Liquified gas storage
   
92.27   Traffic and water control; reporting
   
92.28   Modification
   
92.29   Appeals
Public Fire and Safety Surcharge
   
92.40   Purpose and intent
   
92.41   Definitions
   
92.42   Imposition of fire protection surcharge
   
92.43   Dedication of funds
   
92.44   Collection
   
92.45   Program administration
   
92.46   Appeal process
   
92.47   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF OREGON FIRE CODE; ENFORCEMENT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The 2010 Oregon Fire Code promulgated by the Oregon State Fire Marshal
is hereby adopted as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The City of Union Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall be
the “Fire Code Official” referred to in the Oregon Fire Code. However, the
provisions of this Chapter 92, and all codes, laws, and regulations adopted by
reference herein, may be enforced by the Union City Council or its designee,
any peace officer or constable hired by the city, any member of any police
agency with which the city contracts for police services, the Union Fire Chief
or his or her designee, and any other city official given general ordinance
enforcement duties by the city.
   (C)   Because the provisions of this chapter are necessary to protect the
health and safety of the citizens of Union, this chapter shall take effect
immediately following its adoption by the City Council.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
The definitions set forth in the Oregon Fire Code shall apply to the
application and enforcement of the Fire Code by the City of Union. The
following definitions shall apply to the remainder of this chapter.
   BURNING CONTAINER. An enclosed container of non-combustible material such as
ferrous metal or masonry and screened with metal wire mesh. The container shall
be constructed so as to entirely contain the allowable material and to prevent
any burning materials from leaving the container while burning.
   COOKING FIRE. An open burning fire used exclusively for cooking food,
excluding gas or charcoal fired cooking grill fires.
   NUISANCE BURNING. Any burning that is in violation of this chapter, of any
ordinance of the city, of any provision of any code, law, or regulation adopted
by reference within this chapter, of any lawful limitation imposed by the Union
City Council or the Union Fire Chief or his or her designee, or of any
applicable state or federal statute or regulation; also, any burning that
creates a public or private nuisance.
   OPEN BURNING. All burning conducted outside the limits of an enclosed
building such as a residence, shop, store, garage, and the like.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. An adult person who is reasonably capable of
extinguishing an authorized fire or an accidental secondary fire.
   SAFETY AREA. An area free of combustible materials surrounding the burning
activity of sufficient size so as to prevent the kindling of any secondary
fire.
   SAFETY EQUIPMENT. Water, either in containers or by garden hose, shovels,
rakes or any other items that are required for extinguishing of a permitted
fire.
   UNCONFINED BURNING PILE. A pile of combustible vegetative debris suitable
for burning.
   VEGETATIVE DEBRIS. Yard debris which includes dry limbs, twigs, trees,
shrubbery, and leaves, but excludes any such materials that are wet, grass
clippings, or green, or other slow burning vegetative matter.
   WIRE MESH or SCREENING. A ferrous metal wire mesh or screen with openings
small enough to entirely confine the burning material within the burning
container. Openings within the screen or mesh shall not exceed 3/4 of an inch.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.16 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Nuisance burning is prohibited. No person shall set or conduct a
nuisance fire.
   (B)   Open burning is prohibited within the city except as provided in §
92.17 of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to controlled burning conducted by the
Union Fire Department.
   (D)   All authorized burning shall be done within the confines of the
owner’s or occupant’s property, and in no event shall any burning be done in
the city streets or on the city aprons or rights-of-way.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 OPEN BURNING ALLOWED CONDITIONALLY.
   (A)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   The following types of fires are allowed recreational fires and may
be conducted without a permit:
         (a)   Cooking fires as defined in this chapter;
         (b)   Fires in fire pits associated with supervised campsites with
spark arresters composed of wire mesh or screening as defined herein, in
outdoor fireplaces with chimneys and spark arresters composed of wire mesh or
screening as defined herein, and in patio fireplaces with spark arresters
composed of wire mesh or screening as defined herein, provided that only clean
dry wood may be used in such fires; and
         (c)   Fires in propane, natural gas or briquette barbeques that meet
applicable federal and state requirements.
      (2)   All recreational fires must be completely extinguished before being
left unattended.
      (3)   There are no restrictions on hours for recreational fires unless
ordered by the Union City Council or the Union Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
      (4)   Recreational burning shall be conducted only by a responsible
person or a person directly supervised by a responsible person.
      (5)   All recreational fires shall be in open and well ventilated places
and at a safe distance from structures, trees, and combustible material.
   (B)   Unconfined burning pile fires. Unconfined burning pile fires may be
conducted under the following conditions:
      (1)   Only vegetative debris, as defined in this chapter, may be burned.
No other material, including but not limited to, garbage, tires, paper,
cardboard, lumber, furniture, plastics, magazines, and diapers may be burned;
      (2)   A responsible person must first obtain a burn permit for the fire;
      (3)   No pile may exceed two feet in height and three feet in diameter
except when first inspected and approved by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee;
      (4)   There must be a responsible person present at all times;
      (5)   The person must comply with all applicable federal and state
statutes and regulations on open burning;
      (6)    The burning shall be limited to the hours of from dawn to dusk and
shall be completely extinguished by dark;
      (7)   All burn piles and cooking fires shall have a 25-foot safety area;
and
      (8)   All burn piles shall be constantly supervised, and reasonably
sufficient safety equipment, such as water and shovels, for use in
extinguishing the fire or any accidental secondary fire, shall be readily
available during burning.
   (C)   Burning container fires. Burning container fires may be conducted
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean and not colored paper, dry limbs or twigs may be burned.
No other material, including but not limited to, garbage, tires, colored paper,
cardboard, lumber, furniture, plastics, magazines, and diapers may be burned;
      (2)   There shall be a 15-foot safety area around the container, and the
person shall make adequate provisions for fire control;
      (3)   The person must first obtain a burn permit;
      (4)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the burning container shall be
approved by the Fire Chief and shall consist of non-combustible material such
as an open top barrel or masonry structure, covered with a well-fitting, heavy
gauge screen not exceeding three-quarter inch mesh;
      (5)   The person must comply with all applicable federal and state
statutes and regulations on open burning; and
      (6)   The burning shall be limited to the hours from dawn to dark unless
otherwise specified by resolution of the Union City Council, or by order of the
Union Fire Chief or his or her designee, and the fire shall be completely
extinguished outside of the applicable time limits.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.18 BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall set or conduct any fire for which a permit is required
by the terms of this chapter without first obtaining a permit from the Union
City Hall and without conducting the fire as required by the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Permits will be issued on a calendar year basis for approved burning
containers.
   (C)   The cost of the permit shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any burning permit may be revoked at any time if:
      (1)   The permit holder is, or would be, in violation of any applicable
provision of this chapter or of any adopted code; or
      (2)   The burning would, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, be a hazard to
another person’s health or otherwise be unsafe.
   (B)   The revocation of a permit as well as the suspension of the right to
obtain a burning permit may be imposed as a penalty for a violation of this
chapter in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed for such
violation.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.20 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon compliance with all applicable procedures, all officials authorized to
enforce this chapter or to otherwise carry out its terms, and all officials
with duties hereunder that require entering upon private property in order to
carry out such duties, are authorized to enter private property at all
reasonable times in furtherance of the official’s duties.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.21 RESPONSIBILITY; PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The responsible person in charge of a fire, as well as any person
conducting the fire, shall be responsible for violations of this chapter and
shall be liable for all damages, penalties, and fines resulting from burning in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   A person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a violation which shall be punishable by a fine set by the Union
City Council by resolution or ordinance. Such a person shall also be subject to
any civil remedies available to the city as set forth in this chapter or as
otherwise provided for by law.
   (C)   All persons authorized to enforce the terms of this chapter shall be
entitled to issue citations for any violation.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.22 ABATEMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The Union Fire Department is hereby authorized to respond to and
suppress a fire burning in violation of this chapter or to a secondary fire
caused by such a fire. If the Union Fire Department reasonably responds to or
suppresses any such fire, the person or persons responsible for the violation,
as set forth in §
92.21, shall pay the city for all costs associated with the response and/or
suppression efforts. Such persons shall be jointly and severally liable.
   (B)   When the city responds to or suppresses a fire set or conducted in
violation of this chapter, or to a secondary fire caused by such a fire, it may
do so using any lawful means, and the city or its agents may enter upon the
subject property and may extinguish any fire or secondary fire. The city may
also seek such judicial process as it deems necessary.
   (C)   No person shall obstruct, impede, or interfere with the city or its
agents in the implementation of this chapter, or with any person retained or
hired by the city to effect fire response or suppression efforts, or with any
person who is a person in charge of the property performing any acts necessary
to correct a violation.
   (D)   Assessment of costs.
      (1)   The city shall maintain a record of all expenses incurred in
responding to a violation and/or suppressing a fire. The record shall include,
but is not necessarily limited to, charges for labor and personal services,
equipment rentals, the costs of contractors, materials expense, fuel costs,
reasonable charge for use of city-owned equipment, the costs of transportation,
and an additional charge of 15% of the amount of the total cost for
administrative overhead.
      (2)   A notice of assessment of the costs shall be sent by certified mail
with return receipt to the responsible party or parties. The notice shall
contain:
         (a)   The total costs of response and/or suppression, including the
administrative overhead;
         (b)   A statement that the costs are presently due and owning and are
the personal obligation of the person or persons responsible pursuant to this
chapter; and
         (c)   A statement that if the person or persons object to the costs,
he or she may file a notice of objection with the City within 15 days of the
date of the notice.
      (3)   Objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined
by the City Council, or by the City Council’s designee, without the right to
further administrative review.
      (4)   If the costs are not paid within 60 days from the date of the
issuance of the notice of costs, or if an objection was timely filed, from the
date of the city’s determination of costs the total amount due shall accrue
interest at the rate of 9% per annum. The city is hereby authorized to enforce
this obligation by any legal means including the filing of a legal action.
      (5)   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the City Council, or
the Council’s designee, may appeal to the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon
for Union County for judicial review of the City Council’s decision. The appeal
shall be filed within 30 days from the effective date of the decision. The
failure of any person to file a timely request for judicial review in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of the
right to judicial review, and the decision of the City Council shall then be
final. There shall be no right to judicial review if the person appealing did
not timely seek a hearing before the City Council, or the Council’s designee,
and then thereafter pursue to conclusion the hearing.
      (6)   On judicial review to Circuit Court, all rules governing the form
of pleadings, procedures, the taking of evidence, and such other matters as may
affect the proceeding shall be governed by the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure,
the Oregon Evidence Code, and such other rules and laws applicable to
proceedings in circuit court and/or as directed by the judge presiding over the
proceedings.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.23 DISCONTINUANCE.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, the Union City
Council may by resolution, or the Union Fire Chief may by order, prohibit or
otherwise limit any or all open burning within the city if the City Council or
the Fire Chief in their respective discretion determines that smoke emissions
may be offensive to occupants of surrounding properties or that open burning
may be a hazardous condition under the prevailing circumstances.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.24 USE OF WOOD STOVES RESTRICTED.
   Wood stoves, fireplaces or outdoor fireplaces must be used for heating and
cooking purposes only and may not be used to burn household garbage, tires,
furniture, colored paper, cardboard, plastics, leaves, green material or other
yard or vegetative debris.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.25 EXPLOSIVES STORAGE.
   No explosives or blasting agents shall be stored within the Union city
limits.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 LIQUIFIED GAS STORAGE.
   The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is prohibited within the Union
city limits, provided, however, that liquefied petroleum gas in amounts of
1,200 gallons or less used for domestic or commercial purposes may be kept
within the city limits if kept within containers meeting the requirements of
and installed in conformance with the Oregon State Fire Code and all other
applicable laws, codes and regulations.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 TRAFFIC AND WATER CONTROL; REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle over any fire hose line used
by the Fire Department unless the hose line is protected by an approved bridge.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at all times to park any vehicle in front of any
hotel or motel entrance or exit, within ten feet of any fire hydrant, or in
front of any theater entrance or exit during theater hours.
   (C)   During periods of water use restrictions imposed by the City Council,
it shall be unlawful to fail or refuse to turn off and keep turned off all
water faucets and fixtures connected with the water system of the city upon the
sounding of the fire alarm siren-horn.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of any person owning, occupying or in control of
any building, other than a private dwelling, upon learning that an accidental
fire of any kind or source has occurred or is occurring therein, to report the
fire immediately to the Fire Department; and any person who fails to so act
shall be deemed guilty of a violation hereof.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.28 MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Union Fire Chief shall have the authority to modify the
application of §
92.17 upon application in writing by the owner or occupant of any property
affected hereby if it is shown that there are difficulties unique to the
applicant’s property that make carrying out the strict letter of this chapter
impractical or inequitable, providing that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of the modification, when allowed, shall be reduced to
writing by the Fire Chief and shall be entered upon the records of the
Department; a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant. The modification
shall be effective only upon the delivery of the copy of the applicant, and no
modification shall apply to, diminish, or mitigate a violation that occurred
prior to the issuance of the Fire Chief’s modification.
   (C)   No person has a right to a modification under this §
92.28. An application shall be determined by the Fire Chief in his or her sole
discretion, and the decision is not appealable.
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.29 APPEALS.
   Whenever any city official with the authority to issue a permit pursuant to
this chapter disapproves an application or refuse to grant a permit applied
for, the applicant may appeal the decision in writing addressed to the City
Recorder. The appeal shall be presented by the appellant to the City Recorder
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed from. The appeal shall be
determined by a committee composed of the Mayor, Chief of the Fire Department,
and the Fire Commissioner. Any further appeal shall be to the Circuit Court of
the State of Oregon for Union County pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
92.22(D)(5)and (6).
(Ord. 543, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
PUBLIC FIRE AND SAFETY SURCHARGE
§ 92.40 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The principal purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard, facilitate
and encourage the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and businesses of
the city. The City Council also finds that a continuous and consistent fire
protection and emergency medical response program provides a multitude of
economic and social benefits to the public, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Reduction in the incidence of fire;
      (2)   Improved response to fire and other disaster situations;
      (3)   Enhanced protection of property;
      (4)   Promotion of business and industry;
      (5)   Promotion of community spirit and growth; and
      (6)   Promotion of the health and safety of city residents.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide a funding mechanism to
help pay for the benefits conferred on city residents and businesses by the
provision of an adequately funded Fire Department for fire safety and emergency
medical response, and further to help bring the Fire Department up to
acceptable service levels and keep it there.
   (C)   The structure of this subchapter is intended to be a public fire and
safety surcharge for Fire Department service within the city limits. In the
event that the collected surcharge revenues are insufficient to properly
operate the Fire Department, additional funding may be allocated by the City
Council from other non-dedicated city funds provided, however, the City Council
may direct the reimbursement to such other non-dedicated city funds if
additional public fire and safety surcharge revenues are collected.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. A parcel or portion of real property on which a
dwelling, structure, or building exists.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Developed property that is not primarily for personal
domestic accommodation, such as a business or commercial enterprise. A non-
residential structure which provides facilities for one or more businesses
including, but not limited to, permanent provisions for access to the public,
shall have each distinct business facility considered as a separate non-
residential unit. Motels and hotels shall be considered NON-RESIDENTIAL UNITS
for these purposes.
   PERSON. A natural person, unincorporated association, tenancy in common,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, cooperative, trust, any
governmental agency, including the State of Oregon but excluding the City of
Union, and other entity in law or in fact.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Developed property with a residential structure which
provides complete living facilities for one or more persons including, but not
limited to, permanent provisions for living, sleeping, and sanitation. A home
business in a residential zone will be regarded only as a residential unit, not
as a non-residential unit. Multi-family residential property consisting of two
or more dwelling units, condominium units or individual mobile home units shall
have each unit considered as a separate residential unit. A lot or parcel which
contains a non-residential building or structure used primarily for personal
purposes, not primarily for business or commercial purposes, shall be
considered a RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person owing the public fire and safety surcharge.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.42 IMPOSITION OF FIRE PROTECTION SURCHARGE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a public fire and safety surcharge to
accomplish the above-stated purposes.
   (B)   The public fire and safety surcharge is hereby established and shall
be assessed to each residential unit and to each non-residential unit within
the city limits in accordance with a fee structure set forth by the city
council by resolution.
   (C)   Except as the fees may be reduced or eliminated under §
92.46, the obligation to pay a public fire and safety surcharge arises when a
responsible party uses or otherwise benefits from the services of the Fire
Department. It is presumed that such services are used and that a benefit
arises whenever the subject real property is developed property.
   (D)   Undeveloped properties shall not be charged a public fire and safety
surcharge.
   (E)   Annually, as part of the budget review process, a determination shall
be made as to whether a change in the surcharge would be appropriate or not.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.43 DEDICATION OF FUNDS.
   All public fire and safety surcharge revenues derived shall be distinctly
and clearly noted in both the revenue and expenditure sections of the city
budget and shall be used for the improvement, maintenance, administration and
operation of the fire department and costs incidental thereto and for no other
purpose in order to help provide for a safe, well-functioning fire protection
and emergency medical response program. The surcharges paid and collected by
virtue of this chapter shall not be used for general or other governmental or
proprietary purposes of the city.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.44 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Public fire and safety surcharges shall be collected monthly.
Statements for the surcharge shall be included as an additional item on the
city monthly utility billing wherever feasible, unless otherwise specified
below.
   (B)   Unless another person has agreed in writing to pay and a copy of that
writing is filed with the city, the person normally responsible for paying the
city’s water and sewer utility charges is responsible for paying the public
fire and safety surcharge.
   (C)   In the event a developed property is not served by a domestic water
meter or sewer hook-up, or if water and sewer service is discontinued, the
public fire and safety surcharge shall be paid by the person or persons having
the right to occupy or use the property.
   (D)   A request for water or sewer service by a person, a person’s request
for the issuance of a building permit, or a person’s occupancy of a building
will automatically cause the person to become the person responsible to pay the
surcharge if that person has not already been the responsible party.
   (E)   There shall be no public fire and safety surcharge for undeveloped
property until such time as building permits are issued for that property.
   (F)   The imposition of surcharges shall be calculated on the basis of the
number of residential or non-residential units supported, without regard to the
number of water meters serving the property.
   (G)   Late charges may be assessed in an amount determined by the city
council by resolution for any public fire and safety surcharges that become
thirty days past due.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.45 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Except as provided below, the City Administrator shall be responsible
for the administration of this subchapter and for the collection of fees
hereunder.
   (B)   The City Council shall be responsible for designating three members to
administer the appeal process under §
92.46. The body shall be known as the Public Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal
Committee.
   (C)   The City Administrator is authorized and directed to review the
operation of this subchapter and, where appropriate, to recommend supplemental
provisions thereto in the form of administrative procedures for adoption by the
city council by resolution. Such procedures, if adopted by the council, shall
be given full force and effect, unless clearly inconsistent with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.46 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   A public fire and safety surcharge may be appealed for change or
relief in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   Any responsible party who disputes any interpretation given by the
city as to the classification of property may appeal such interpretation.
      (2)   A person responsible to pay the public fire and safety surcharge
may seek a reduction or elimination of the surcharge by demonstrating to the
Public Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal Committee that the services of the Fire
Department cannot be beneficially used.
      (3)   If the appeal is successful, relief will be granted as appropriate.
In such instances, reimbursement will be given for any overpayment, retroactive
to the filing date of the appeal. Factors to be taken into consideration
include, but are not limited to: availability of more accurate information;
equity relative to billing classifications assigned to other developments of a
similar nature; changed circumstances; and situations uniquely affecting the
party filing the appeal.
      (4)   Any responsible party may claim a financial hardship. The Public
Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal Committee is authorized the discretion to
determine financial hardships on a case-by-case situation or to establish
guidelines for making such a determination. These guidelines shall be approved
by the City Council by resolution before going into effect.
   (B)   Application for appeal shall state the reason for appeal, with
supporting documentation to justify the requested change or relief.
   (C)   The Public Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal Committee shall be
responsible for evaluating appeals. If the committee decides information
provided through the appeal process justifies a change, the committee may
authorize this change (up or down) retroactive to the date the appeal was
filed.
   (D)   The Public Fire Safe Surcharge Appeal Committee shall make all
reasonable attempts to resolve appeals utilizing available existing
information, including supporting documentation filed with the appeal, within
thirty days of the date the appeal was filed. If, however, more detailed site-
specific information is necessary, the committee may request the applicant to
provide such information.
   (E)   In any event, the Public Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal Committee
shall file a report within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed explaining
the disposition of the appeal, along with the rationale and supporting
documentation for the decision reached.
   (F)   Decisions of the Public Fire and Safety Surcharge Appeal Committee may
be further appealed to the City Council, and shall be heard at a public
meeting. Upon such further appeal, the City Council shall at its first regular
meeting thereafter set a hearing date. The matter shall be heard solely upon
the record. In no event shall a final decision be made later than ninety days
after the matter was formally appealed to the City Council.
   (G)   The filing fee for an appeal shall be $50. An additional $50 fee is
required for further appeal to the City Council. These fees are fully
refundable should the appellant adequately justify and secure the requested
change or relief.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 92.47 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event funds received from city utility billings are inadequate
to satisfy in full all of the water charges, sewer charges, and public fire and
safety surcharge for a responsible person, credit shall be given first to the
public fire and safety surcharge, second to the sewer services charges, third
to the charges for water service.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the city may
institute any necessary legal proceedings to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter, including but not limited to injunctive relief and collection of
charges owing. The city’s enforcement rights shall be cumulative.
(Ord. 546, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   State statute cited
   
93.03   Notice of nuisance
   
93.04   Impounding nuisance
   
93.05   Notice of impoundment and sale
   
93.06   Low value vehicle
   
93.07   Public sale notice
   
93.08   Public sale of vehicles valued over $750
   
93.09   Redemption before sale
   
93.10   Sale and proceeds
   
93.11   Application
   
93.12   Charges
   
93.13   Effective date
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Left unoccupied and unclaimed or in a damaged or dismantled
condition upon the streets or alleys of the city.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. Any authorized law enforcement officer of the city.
   COSTS. The expense of removing, storing and selling an impounded vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE OWNER. Any individual, firm, corporation or unincorporated
association with a claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership or any
interest, legal or equitable, in a vehicle.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.02 STATE STATUTE CITED.
   The requirements of this chapter are in addition to the requirements of
O.R.S. Chapter 819.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.03 NOTICE OF NUISANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department whenever a vehicle is found
upon the streets or alleys of the city in the same position for a period of 48
hours to:
   (A)   Make a routine investigation to determine the owner of the vehicle by
any means available;
   (B)   If the owner is not identified, to place a notice conspicuously on the
vehicle stating that the Police Department will tow the vehicle if it is not
removed within 72 hours following the posting of the notice; and
   (C)   If the owner of the vehicle is not identified, the Police Department
shall presume that the recorded owner identified by Oregon Motor Vehicle
Division files is the owner. The Police Department shall send to the presumed
owner a written notice complying with the requirements of O.R.S. 819.170
(Notice Prior to Removal) or O.R.S. 819.180 (Notice After Removal).
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.04 IMPOUNDING NUISANCE.
   (A)   A vehicle which remains in the same position for 24 hours after the
owner has been requested to move it, or a vehicle on which a notice has been
posted and the expiration of the warning notice has expired with no person
appearing to show cause why the vehicle should not be moved, shall constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to cause a vehicle which
constitutes a nuisance to be removed by a licensed and bonded towing company or
automobile wrecking company which has signed an agreement with the city. The
company shall tow the vehicle to its safe and secure storage yard where the
vehicle will be disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Prior to or following removal of the vehicle, the Chief of Police will
cause the vehicle to be appraised by a certified appraiser to determine if the
vehicle is valued at less than $750.
   (D)   (1)   A motor vehicle used by an operator under the following
conditions shall be considered a nuisance and shall be impounded immediately:
         (a)   Operators license is suspended (including infraction
suspension), revoked or invalid (except where the operator’s license in invalid
for the sole reason of being expired less than one year);
         (b)   A motor vehicle from which a firearm has been discharged,
including air guns and paint pellet “paint ball” guns, slingshot projectiles or
fireworks thrown from the vehicle;
         (c)   A motor vehicle operated without evidence of insurance as
required by the Motor Vehicle Code; and
         (d)   A motor vehicle in which the driver has been arrested for any
reason, including driving under the influence of intoxicants.
      (2)   Prior to getting a vehicle out of impound, the owner or responsible
party shall pay an impound fee in an amount established by resolution of the
City Council. The owner or responsible party will also need to provide proof of
current liability insurance, registration and driver’s license in order to
clear the vehicle for release.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 456, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.05 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE.
   If the owner is identified, he or she shall be notified within 48 hours by
certified mail with return receipt requested. The notice shall state that the
vehicle is held in impound. The notice shall meet the requirements of O.R.S.
819.180.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.06 LOW VALUE VEHICLE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised at less than $750, the requirements of
O.R.S. 819.220 (Disposal of Vehicle Without Notice and Public Auction) shall
apply.
   (B)   Failure of the owner to reclaim the vehicle within 15 days after the
date of notification shall constitute a waiver of interest in the vehicle.
   (C)   Upon completion of the requirements of O.R.S. 819.220, the Chief of
Police may, without notice and public auction, execute a sale and issue a
certificate of sale.
   (D)   The certificate of sale must contain the requirements of O.R.S.
819.240.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.07 PUBLIC SALE NOTICE.
   If the vehicle is appraised at over $750 and if no claim is made on the
vehicle within 15 days as specified by O.R.S. 819.220, the Chief of Police will
cause a notice of public sale to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city. The notice of sale shall state:
   (A)   That the sale is of abandoned property in the city’s possession;
   (B)   A description of the vehicle including its type, make, license number,
VIN and any other information which will aid in identifying the vehicle; and
   (C)   The terms, date, time and place of the sale.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.08 PUBLIC SALE OF VEHICLES VALUED OVER $750.
   (A)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 819.210 and 819.220, vehicles valued at more than
$750 shall be sold at public auction. Notice of the public sale shall be in
accordance to §
93.07.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest bidder. If no bids are
received that would cover the cost incurred by the city, the Chief of Police
may enter a bid on behalf of the city in an amount equal to the cost.
   (C)   At the time of the sale the Chief of Police shall execute a
certificate of sale in accordance with the requirements of O.R.S. 819.240.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.09 REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE.
   (A)   A claimant may redeem an impounded vehicle prior to sale or
disposition by applying to the Police Department and providing:
      (1)   Evidence of ownership or interest in the vehicle and that the claim
is rightful; and
      (2)   Payment of all costs due and owing at the time of application, the
costs to include all fines, towing costs and the like.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police determines that the requirements of division
(A) above have been adequately met, the Chief shall execute a receipt to the
owner and shall notify the towing agency that the vehicle may be released upon
payment of any lien against the vehicle, including all reasonable towing and
storage costs.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.10 SALE AND PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Upon sale of a vehicle sold under the authority of O.R.S. 819.210 or
819.220, the Chief of Police shall comply with the requirements stipulated in
O.R.S. 819.250.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a return of sale to the Motor Vehicle
Division.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall transmit to the City Recorder all of the
proceeds of the sale for deposit into the General Fund of the city.
   (D)   At the time of sale, the Chief of Police must make clear that bidding
shall not begin lower than the cost incurred by the city and that the purchase
shall be liable for any liens against the vehicle.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.11 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all abandoned vehicles now in possession of the
City of Union as well as vehicles that are hereafter impounded.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.12 CHARGES.
   (A)   In the enforcement and execution of the provisions of this chapter,
the Chief of Police shall charge and collect all fines and expenses incurred by
the city.
   (B)   The towing company liens shall be paid by the purchasers or claimants
of the vehicle.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 93.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon its passage by the City
Council and approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 426, passed 2-11-1991)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Public Rights-of-Way
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Jurisdiction
   
94.003   Scope of regulatory control
   
94.004   City permission requirement
   
94.005   Obligations of the city
Regulating Skating or Using Skateboards
   
94.020   Dangerous skating prohibited
   
94.021   Restrictions in general commercial zone
   
94.022   Apparatus prohibited
   
94.023   Emergency declared
Special Assessments
   
94.040   Definition
   
94.041   Installment payment of assessments
   
94.042   Application
   
94.043   Liens
   
94.044   Bonds
Manner in Which New Streets Shall be Laid Out
   
94.060   Application for street improvements; petitions
   
94.061   Hearing
   
94.062   Viewers’ report
   
94.063   Condemnation
   
94.064   Funds to be reserved
Construction, Repair or Renewal of Sidewalks and Crosswalks
   
94.080   Sidewalk specifications
   
94.081   Notice; remonstrances
   
94.082   Construction by owner
   
94.083   Construction by city
   
94.084   Liens
   
94.085   Crosswalks
   
94.086   Sidewalk repair and fixing of responsibility
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Street and Sidewalk Offenses, see
Chapter 131
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Union, Oregon.
   PERSON. Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, joint stock
company and similar entities.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas.
   WITHIN THE CITY. Territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its powers.
(Ord. 453, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.002 JURISDICTION.
   The City of Union has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all
public rights-of-way within the city under the authority of the City Charter
and state law.
(Ord. 453, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.003 SCOPE OF REGULATORY CONTROL.
   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over each public
right-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement or other legal interest in
the right-of-way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory control over each
right-of-way whether the legal interest in the right-of-way was obtained by
grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation,
foreclosure or other means.
(Ord. 453, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.004 CITY PERMISSION REQUIREMENT.
   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way by
franchises, licenses and permits.
(Ord. 453, passed 4-14-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 OBLIGATIONS OF THE CITY.
   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control over a public right-of-
way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 453, passed 4-14-1997)
REGULATING SKATING OR USING SKATEBOARDS
§ 94.020 DANGEROUS SKATING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to skate or to use a skateboard in
the City of Union where the activity presents a clear danger of hurting other
people or themselves, where the activity presents a danger of destroying
private or public property or where the activity presents a danger of
disrupting government, business or school activities.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-12-1995) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 RESTRICTIONS IN GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate or to use a skateboard during
business hours (normally 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.), or on any special event day,
within the following area of the Cl-General Commercial Zone: The entire public
right-of-way of Main Street (Highway 203/237) between the north end of the
Catherine Creek Bridge and the intersection with Dearborn Street.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-12-1995) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022 APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take apparatus for use with
skates or skateboards on to the public right-of-way, including, but not limited
to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, parking lots, parks and other city facilities.
   (B)   Apparatus found on city facilities or rights-of-way may be confiscated
and destroyed.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-12-1995) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 EMERGENCY DECLARED.
   Because this subchapter is necessary for the safety and convenience of Union
citizens, this subchapter shall take effect immediately upon its adoption by
the City Council and approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-12-1995)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 94.040 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a STREET IMPROVEMENT is defined to be
any grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any street, the
construction or reconstruction of sidewalks, the installation of ornamental
street lights and the reconstruction or repair of any street improvement.
(Ord. 218, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.041 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever the Common Council shall have proceeded to improve any street or
part of street, within the corporate limits of the City of Union, and shall
have assessed the cost of the improvement to the property benefitted thereby or
liable therefore, it shall be lawful for the owner of the property so assessed
for the improvement in the sum of $25 or more, at any time within ten days
after notice of the assessment is first published, to file with the City
Recorder a written application to pay the assessments in installments. The
application shall state that the applicant and property owner does hereby waive
all irregularities or defects, jurisdictional or otherwise, in the proceedings
to improve the street for which the assessment is levied and in the
apportionment of the cost thereof. The application shall contain a provision
that the applicant and property owner agree to pay the assessment in ten annual
installments with interest at the same rate on all of the unpaid assessments as
that expressed in the bonds issued to pay for the improvements but not
exceeding 6%. The application shall also contain a statement by lots, blocks or
other convenient description of the property of the applicant assessed for the
improvement. No application shall be received and filed by the Recorder if the
amount of the assessment, together with any previous unpaid assessments for
street improvements assessed against the same property, shall equal or exceed
the valuation of the property as shown by the last tax roll of the county in
which it is situated. The Council shall select a competent person to inspect
the improvement under the direction of the Street Commissioner; provided, that
application for the bonding shall be received by the City Recorder in cases
where the amount of the assessment, together with unpaid previous assessments
for street improvements against the property, shall exceed the valuation of the
property as shown by the last tax roll of the county, if the owner shall,
before making the application pay in cash into the Treasury of the city, the
excess of unpaid assessments over the valuation as shown by the last tax roll.
(Ord. 218, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.042 APPLICATION.
   The City Recorder shall keep all the applications as are specified in §
94.040 in convenient form for examination. The applications received for each
street improvement shall be separate and the City Recorder shall also enter in
a book kept for that purpose, under separate headings for each street
improvement, the date of filing of each application, the name of the applicant,
a description of the property and the amount of the assessment with rate of
interest as shown in the application.
(Ord. 218, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.043 LIENS.
   After the expiration of the time for filing application for the payment of
assessments for improvement of streets by installments as provided herein, the
City Recorder shall enter in a docket kept for that purpose, under separate
heads, for each street, by name or number, a description of each lot or parcel
of land or other property against which the assessment is made or which bears
or is chargeable for the cost of the improvement with the name of the owner and
the amount of the unpaid assessment. The docket shall stand thereafter as a
lien docket for taxes assessed and levied in favor of the city and for the
amounts of the unpaid assessments therein docketed, with interest on the unpaid
assessment at the rate of 6% per annum against each lot, parcel of land or
other property until the assessment and interest are paid in the manner as
provided by law; and all unpaid assessments and interest shall be and remain a
lien on each lot, parcel of land or other property, respectively, in favor of
the city and liens shall have priority over all other liens and encumbrances
whatsoever.
(Ord. 218, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.044 BONDS.
   When the provisions as set out in this subchapter have been complied with,
the Council shall provide for the issuance, terms and conditions of improvement
bonds, the number of payments of installments and the manner of enforcing the
payments; providing for the creation of sinking and interest funds, redemption
of bonds, terms and conditions of deficiency bonds, if any, and the manner of
foreclosing of liens and assessments herein mentioned, as provided by the laws
of the State of Oregon (O.R.S. 223.205 to 223.755), inclusive, as the
provisions are now in force or as the same may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. 218, passed 5-19-1941)
MANNER IN WHICH NEW STREETS SHALL BE LAID OUT
§ 94.060 APPLICATION FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS; PETITIONS.
   All applications for the laying out, opening or altering of any street
within the corporate limits shall be by petition in writing, signed by the
owner or owners of a majority of the lineal feet along the proposed street. The
petition shall state fully the terminating and the starting points of the
proposed street and set forth the name or names of all persons owning land
fronting on the street. When an alteration is to be made, the petition shall
set forth, in addition to the above, the changes that are to be made.
(Ord. 232, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.061 HEARING.
   Upon the filing of the above petition, the Recorder shall notify personally,
or by registered mail, each and every landowner fronting on the street to be
opened or altered of the pendency of the petition and of the time and place of
hearing on the petition. The Council shall hear any person or persons on the
petitions. If no appearance is made, or if reasonable cause is not shown why
the street should not be opened, the Council shall appoint three disinterested
persons to act as viewers of the proposed street and alterations. The viewers
shall meet within ten days after their appointment and shall finish their work
within a reasonable time thereafter.
(Ord. 232, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.062 VIEWERS’ REPORT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the viewers to view the proposed street or
alterations, to estimate the cost of putting the street in fit condition for
public use, ascertain the value of the land necessary to be taken, decide as to
the advisability of opening or altering the street, taking into consideration
the benefit and damage, convenience and inconvenience of all persons
interested.
   (B)   It shall also be their duty to definitely locate all boundaries of the
street to be laid out or altered and they may hire a competent surveyor to aid
them in determining the boundaries.
   (C)   The viewers shall immediately, on finishing their work, file with the
Recorder a written report of their work, setting forth all matters enumerated
above in this section, the number of days they worked and the cost, if any, of
hiring a surveyor and any other matters that they may deem advisable.
   (D)   Each viewer shall receive the sum of $2 for every day that he or she
has worked, which sum shall be paid out of the City Treasury.
(Ord. 232, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.063 CONDEMNATION.
   If, after filing of the viewers’ report, the Council shall decide to open or
alter the street, any person whose land would be taken may present, in writing,
a claim including the value of the land and any other damage that would arise
from the appropriation thereof. If the Council rejects the claim or if no claim
is presented, the Council shall meet or correspond by mail with the owner to
arrange the price to be paid. If no agreement can be reached or if the
whereabouts of the owner is not known, then condemnation proceedings as
provided by law shall be instituted.
(Ord. 232, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.064 FUNDS TO BE RESERVED.
   No street shall be opened or altered until a sum sufficient in the minds of
the Council shall be appropriated and actually in the hands of the Treasurer to
pay all claims and expenses for laying out or altering the streets.
(Ord. 232, passed 5-19-1941)
CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RENEWAL OF SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS
§ 94.080 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks hereafter to be constructed within the city limits of Union,
Oregon, shall be constructed according to specifications adopted by the City
Council and on file in the office of the City Administrator. The sidewalks
shall be constructed by and at the expense of the abutting property owners.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941; Ord. 371, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 94.081 NOTICE; REMONSTRANCES.
   Whenever an ordinance providing for the construction of any sidewalk in the
City of Union shall be introduced in the Common Council, each and every one of
the owners of abutting property therein described shall have ten days’ notice
of the pendency of the ordinance before the same shall be put upon its final
passage. If a remonstrance shall be filed within the ten days with the Recorder
of the city, containing the names of abutting property owners along the line of
the proposed sidewalk, representing a two-thirds majority of the whole number
of lineal feet of the proposed line of sidewalk shall be deemed defeated and
shall not pass. The notice provided for by this section shall be given in
writing by the Recorder either through the mail or by personal delivery
thereof.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.082 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   Whenever any ordinance providing for the construction of sidewalks in the
city shall have passed the Common Council, the owners of abutting property
therein described shall have at least 30 days from the date of the service of
written notice within which to construct the same, which service may be made
personally or by depositing the same in a United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage thereon fully
prepaid.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.083 CONSTRUCTION BY CITY.
   In case of the failure of the abutting property owner to construct any
sidewalk provided for within the time required by ordinance, the Street
Commissioner of the city shall forthwith construct the same as provided in the
ordinance and in accordance with the terms of this subchapter; and upon the
completion thereof, he or she shall file with the Recorder of the city an
itemized statement of the expense incurred in the construction of the same,
giving therein a correct description of the abutting property and the name of
the owner thereof, which statement shall be duly certified by him or her and
signed officially.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.084 LIENS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the statement of the Street Commission as provided
in § 94.83, the Recorder of the city shall then and there enter record in a
book to be kept for that purpose, which book shall be known as the Book of City
Liens, the statement in full noting the day and hour of the entry and shall
sign his or her name thereto officially.
   (B)   Thereupon, a lien in favor of the City of Union shall be deemed to
have accrued against the abutting property for the collection of the amount set
forth in the statement, which lien and the amount shall be enforced and
collected by the city in the manner provided for the collection of taxes.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.085 CROSSWALKS.
   The crosswalks, as the Common Council shall cause to be constructed, shall
be built by the Street Commissioner of the city and at the expense of the city.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 94.086 SIDEWALK REPAIR AND FIXING OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   All sidewalks which have been heretofore or shall be hereafter constructed
within the City of Union shall be repaired or renewed at the expense of the
abutting property owner upon notification by the Street Commissioner under
order of the City Council of the needed repair or renewal, or upon actual or
constructive notice to the abutting property owner, as the case may be. The
notification shall be in writing and delivered personally to the abutting
property owner at his or her last known post office address if he or she
resides without the city, proof of the service to be made to the City Recorder
by the Street Commission and the same made a record in the Recorder’s office.
If the abutting owner shall fail to begin the repair or renewal, as the case
may be, within five days of the notification or within a reasonable time after
actual or constructive notice and proceed diligently to completion thereof,
then, and in that event, the repair or renewal, as the case may be, shall be
done by the City of Union under the supervision of the Street Commissioner and
the expense thereof charged to the abutting property and become a lien on the
abutting property; record of the lien to be made and the same enforced in the
manner provided in §§
94.083 and
94.084. In addition, the abutting property owner shall be liable for the
personal injuries and property damage to third persons injured as a result of
the owner’s failure to fulfill the above duty.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-19-1941; Ord. 371, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specif
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §§
94.020 through
94.023 shall be punishable by a fine of $25. In the case of juvenile offenders,
the Judge of the Municipal Court may levy the fine against the parent(s) or
guardians of the juvenile.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 445, passed 6-26-1995)
CHAPTER 95: INSPECTION WARRANTS FOR PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Issuance of warrants
   
95.02   Grounds for issuance of inspection warrants
   
95.03   Procedure for issuance of inspection warrant
   
95.04   Execution of inspection warrant
   
95.05   Assistance of Circuit Court
§ 95.01 ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS.
   The Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Union may, upon
application of the City Administrator, acting in the course of official duties,
issue an inspection warrant whenever an inspection or investigation of any
property, real or personal, is required or authorized by any provision of any
regulation of the city or of any applicable state or federal regulation. The
term “regulation” shall include legislative and administrative enactments as
well as the Charter of the City of Union. The inspection warrant is an order
authorizing the inspection at a designated place for the purposes set forth in
the authorizing regulation.
(Ord. 539, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 95.02 GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OF INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   An inspection warrant shall be issued only upon cause, supported by
affidavit, particularly describing the applicant’s status in applying for the
warrant, the regulation requiring or authorizing the inspection or
investigation, the place to be inspected or investigated, and the purposes for
which the investigation or inspection is to be made including the basis upon
which cause exists to inspect. In addition, the affidavit shall contain either
a statement that entry has been sought and not given, that the property is
vacant, or facts or circumstances reasonably showing that the purposes of the
inspection or investigation might be frustrated if entry were sought without an
inspection warrant.
   (B)   Cause shall be deemed to exist if one or more of the following is
shown by the affidavit:
      (1)   There is probable cause to believe that a condition of or on the
property is in violation of any applicable regulation with respect to the
particular place for which an inspection or investigation is sought;
      (2)   An investigation or inspection is reasonably believed to be
necessary in order to determine or verify the cause of an occurrence such as a
structure collapse, fire, or injury to person or property, reasonably believed
to be a result of a condition of property regulated by the authorizing
regulation; or
      (3)   In a prior proceeding the property has been found to be in
violation of the applicable regulation or to contain a public nuisance, and the
current inspection or investigation is for purposes of follow-up to assure that
all violations and nuisances have been corrected.
(Ord. 539, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 95.03 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF INSPECTION WARRANT.
   (A)   Before issuing an inspection warrant, the Municipal Judge may examine
under oath the person signing the supporting affidavit or affidavits, and any
other witness, and shall be satisfied of the existence of grounds for granting
such application.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge is satisfied that cause for the inspection or
investigation exists and that the other requirements for granting the
application are satisfied, the Judge shall issue the warrant, particularly
describing the name and title of the person or persons authorized to execute
the warrant, the place to be entered and the purpose for the inspection or
investigation. The warrant shall contain a direction that it be executed on any
day of the week between the hours of 8:00 o’clock a.m. and 6:00 o’clock p.m.,
or where the Judge has specifically determined upon a showing that it cannot be
effectively executed between those hours, that it be executed at any additional
or other time of the day or night. The warrant may give authorization for the
indicated person or persons to re-enter on as many days reasonably required to
complete the inspection.
(Ord. 539, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 95.04 EXECUTION OF INSPECTION WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, in executing an
inspection warrant, the person authorized to execute the warrant shall, before
entry, make a reasonable effort to identify him or herself, and to state his or
her authority and purpose to an occupant or person in possession of the place
to be inspected or investigated designated in the warrant and show the occupant
or person in possession of the place the warrant or a copy thereof upon
request.
   (B)   If the designated place is at the time the warrant is executed
unoccupied or not in the possession of any person or at the time reasonably is
believed to be in such condition, in executing an inspection warrant, the
person authorized to execute the warrant need not inform anyone of the person’s
authority and purpose, as is described in division (A) of this section, but may
promptly enter.
   (C)   The person or persons authorized to enter may be accompanied by a
peace officer to assist in the execution of the inspection warrant.
   (D)   An inspection warrant must be executed and returned to the Municipal
Judge by whom it was issued within fourteen calendar days from its date, unless
such Judge before the expiration of such time, by endorsement thereon, extends
the time for five days. After the expiration of the time prescribed by this
subsection, the warrant is void, however, upon the initiation of a new
application may be again issued if the terms of this ordinance are otherwise
satisfied.
(Ord. 539, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 95.05 ASSISTANCE OF CIRCUIT COURT.
   If for any reason the Municipal Court Judge of the City of Union is unable
to exercise the authority granted by this chapter, a judge in the Circuit Court
of the State of Oregon for Union County shall have all the powers and authority
granted the Municipal Court Judge by this chapter.
(Ord. 539, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Rules and regulations
   
96.03   Camping and sleeping
   
96.04   Sound
   
96.05   Liability
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKS. Means and include all recreational properties owned and
controlled by the city of Union, Oregon, or recreational properties available
for use of the public within the city of Union.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 96.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   For the conduct of persons using or frequenting the public parks of Union,
Oregon, the following rules and regulations to be observed and enforced within
said public parks are hereby established:
   (A)   Fire. No person shall build any fire within public parks except in the
barbeques provided in the established picnic areas. No fire for barbeque use
shall be left unattended and every fire shall be extinguished before its user
leaves the park area.
   (B)   Animals. No person shall in any manner pursue, kill, injure, hunt or
molest any bird or animal within any park.
   (C)   Dogs. No person shall permit any dog to run at large within any public
park, and all dogs shall be kept in control on a leash at all times. The person
in charge of the dog shall pick up the feces left by the dog. Owners of dogs or
other animals damaging or destroying park property shall be liable for the full
value of the property damaged or destroyed, in addition to impounding fees and
the penalty imposed for violation of this ordinance.
   (D)   Motor vehicles. No motor vehicle, trailers, or motorcycles shall be
operated, stopped, parked or left standing any place in a public park except on
roads and parking areas provided therefore, except during special occasions or
events.
   (E)   Hours. No person shall use or frequent the Union City Park between the
hours of dusk to dawn. No person shall frequent or park a vehicle in the park
between the hours of dusk to dawn, except during special occasions or events as
may be authorized by the city.
   (F)   Waste material. No person shall scatter, discard or dispose of any
garbage, bottles, broken glass, tin cans, or paper, litter or waste materials
of any kind except in receptacles provided therefore. It shall be unlawful for
any person to haul household garbage, rubbish or trash to the city park and
deposit the same in the park or on public property.
   (G)   Sanitation. No person shall blow, spread, or place any nasal or other
bodily discharge, or urinate or defecate within parks excepting directly into
the particular fixture provided for that purpose.
   (H)   Plants, structures. No unauthorized person shall pick, mutilate, dig
or remove from the park any plant or plants or in any way deface or mutilate,
burn, destroy, defile or remove any railing, building, seat, fence, park
facility, decorative item, any other structure or tree within the park or
remove from the park any logs or wood.
   (I)   Soil, rocks. No unauthorized person shall dig, excavate, blast, quarry
or remove any soil, rock, stones or other substance from the park and no person
shall assist in said removal.
   (J)   Signs. No unauthorized person shall erect signs, markers or
inscriptions of any type within the limits of the city park without a specific
permit from the city.
   (K)   Soliciting. No person while in a city park may operate a concession,
either fixed or mobile, or engage in the business of soliciting, selling or
peddling any liquids, or edibles for human consumption, or merchandise, or
distribute circulars, or hawk, peddle or vend any goods, wares or merchandise,
or set up or use a public address system in the city park without a specific
written permit from the city.
   (L)   Public nuisance. No person shall use abusive, threatening, boisterous,
vile, obscene or indecent language, or gestures in the park, nor shall any
person cause, attempt to cause, or bring about any public nuisance. Drunken
and/or disorderly conduct shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be cause
for expulsion from the park.
   (M)   Public drinking fountains. No person shall willfully mark, scratch,
disfigure, deface or in any manner injure any public drinking fountain in the
city, or throw, place or deposit in any cup or basin of same any cigar or
cigarette stub, or any other matter of refuse whatever.
   (N)   Permits required. Permits shall be required for the assembly of
persons in the city park to which the general public is invited. The city may
require the person, persons, club group, organization, corporation to furnish
police, fire, medical, sanitary and clean-up services. Permits and insurance
shall also be required for music, art, religious and other shows and/or
displays in the city park.
   (O)   Skateboards, bicycles, scooters. The operation or use of skateboards,
bicycles or scooters is prohibited within the city park except on walking or
bike paths.
   (P)   No livestock or horses. Livestock or horses in the city park shall be
prohibited.
   (Q)   Drugs or alcohol. Alcohol or drugs shall be prohibited in the city
park with the exception of alcohol for special events that have been permitted
through the city.
   (R)   Sexual activity. There shall be no lewd activity in the city park.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 CAMPING AND SLEEPING.
   No person shall sleep in the city park at any time. No person shall use any
tent, shelter half, vehicle, camper, or trailer as a shelter for housing or
sleeping in the city park area.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 SOUND.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the peace in the Union City Park between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. For the purposes of this section, DISTURBING
THE PEACE is defined as including, but not being limited to, the following:
      (1)   Playing a musical instrument.
      (2)   Playing a radio, tape recorder, television, MP3 player, DVD player
or IPOD, except though use of headphones or permitted by the city.
   (B)   No person shall use any device to amplify sound in the city park
unless a valid permit has been issued by the city.
   (C)   The city may issue a permit authorizing the use of one or more
designated devices to amplify sound by one or more designated persons in a
designated area of the city park on a designated date between specific hours if
he or she finds, in his or her reasonable discretion, that the number of
persons to be entertained or served by the use of sound can be adequately and
reasonably served only by the amplification of sound. The city may include
conditions in such a permit which they deem reasonable, and the city may revoke
a permit if the terms of the permit are violated, or they may deny a permit to
a person or group of person who have violated the terms of a permit within the
previous year.
   (D)   No person who holds a valid permit issued by the city under this
section shall amplify sound within the city park in violation of any conditions
stated in that permit.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 LIABILITY.
   All persons to whom a exclusive use permit has been granted must agree in
writing to hold the city harmless and indemnify the city from any and all
liability for injury to persons or property occurring as a result of the
activity sponsored by permittee. Any permit holder must have their own
insurance to cover their activity. Such persons shall be liable to the city for
any and all damages to park, facilities, and buildings owned by the city which
results from the activity of permittee or is caused by any who participate in
the activity.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter and upon
conviction thereof, may be banned from the park for a period not to exceed 120
days and or fined the minimum amount set by the fine schedule.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 97: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS AND NUISANCE BUILDINGS
Section
   
97.01   General
   
97.02   Abatement of dangerous buildings
   
97.03   Violations
   
97.04   Inspection of work
   
97.05   Dangerous and nuisance buildings defined
   
97.06   Nuisance declared
   
97.07   Notices and orders of Building official
   
97.08   Appeal
   
97.09   Procedures for conduct of hearing appeals
   
97.10   Judicial review
   
97.11   Enforcement of the order of the Building official or City Council
   
97.12   Performance of work, repair, or demolition
   
97.13   Repair and Demolition Fund
   
97.14   Recovery of cost of repair or demolition
   
97.15   Joint and several responsibility
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 GENERAL.
(A)   Administration. All references to the “building official” shall mean
reference to any and all designees of the City Council for the purposes of the
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspections. The building official is authorized to make such
inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Right of entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, or when the building official or the building
official’s authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in
violation of this chapter, the building official and/or the building official’s
authorized representatives may enter the building or premises at reasonable
times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this chapter, provided
that if such building or premises be occupied, credentials be presented to the
occupant and entry requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the
building official and/or the building official’s authorized representatives,
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If
entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
   (D)   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE as used herein shall include the building
official and their authorized inspection personnel. The City Council may
delegate its authority under this chapter to any City of Union official or
agent except for the duties of the City Council set forth in §
97.09(H)(5) through (7) and §
97.14(E).
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.02 ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by
the building official to be in violation of this chapter are hereby declared to
be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition
or removal in accordance with the procedures specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.03 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the
same to be done in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All buildings or structures within the scope of this chapter and all
construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the building official in accordance with and in the manner
provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.05 DANGEROUS AND NUISANCE BUILDINGS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be a
DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE BUILDING:
   (A)   When any portion or member of the structure is likely to fail, or to
become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property.
   (B)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
(I) dilapidation, deterioration or decay; (ii) faulty construction; (iii) the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the deterioration, decay or
inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause, is likely to partially or
completely collapse.
   (C)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   (D)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
   (E)   Whenever the building or structure has become so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance to children.
   (F)   Whenever a building or structure, because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate
light, air or sanitation facilities, the presence of chemicals or chemical
residue or otherwise, is determined by the building official to be unsanitary,
unsafe, or unfit for human habitation or use, or in such a condition that it is
likely to cause injury, sickness or disease, or to present the possibility of
collapse.
   (G)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
   (H)   Whenever for lack of proper repairs or maintenance, or because of age
and dilapidated condition, or because of poorly installed electrical wiring or
equipment, defective chimney, gas connection or heating apparatus, or for any
other reason a building or structure is liable to cause fire, or which is
situated or occupied in a manner that endangers other property or human life.
   (I)   Whenever any building, its contents, or its yard areas are in a filthy
or unsanitary condition.
   (J)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of one year so as
to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard
to the public.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.06 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Every building or structure found by the City Council or the Council’s
designee, or by the building official, to be a dangerous or nuisance building,
or otherwise in violation of this chapter, is hereby declared to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight,
deterioration and unsightliness, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards,
to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety
of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects, and to be injurious
to the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
Therefore, the presence of any building or structure in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.07 NOTICES AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. When the building official has inspected
or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined that such
building is a dangerous or nuisance building, the building official may
commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation or demolition of the
building.
   (B)   Notice and order. The building official shall cause a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall
contain:
      (1)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      (2)   A statement that the building official has found the building to be
dangerous and/or to constitute a nuisance, with a brief and concise description
of the conditions found to render the building dangerous, or a nuisance, under
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
building official.
         (a)   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefore and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed sixty days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances. The notice given under this paragraph shall contain a list of
the items to be repaired which constitute violations of this chapter.
         (b)   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the building official to be reasonable. A notice given pursuant
to this paragraph shall list the items that have caused the building official
to determine that the building or structure must be vacated.
         (c)   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the building official shall determine is reasonable
(not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order); that all required permits
be secured therefore within sixty days from the date of the order; and that the
demolition be completed within such time as the building official shall
determine is reasonable. A notice given under this division shall list the
aspects of the structure that the building official has determined as
justifying the demolition.
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the building official (I) will order the building vacated and posted
to prevent further occupancy until the work is completed, and (ii) may proceed
to cause the work to be done and charge the cost thereof against the property
or its owner.
      (5)   Statements advising (I) that any person having any record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order or any
action of the building official to the City Council, provided the appeal is
made in writing as provided in this chapter and filed with the City Council
within thirty days from the date of service of such notice and order, or if a
notice to vacate is the subject of the appeal, then within ten days of service
of the notice to vacate; and (ii) that failure to appeal will constitute a
waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination of the
matter, and shall also constitute a waiver of all judicial appellate rights.
   (C)   Service of notice and order. The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner and posted
on the property; and one copy thereof shall be served on each of the following
if known to the building official or disclosed from official public records:
the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or encumbrance of
record; the owner or holder of any lease of record; and the holder of any other
estate or legal interest of record in or to the building or the land on which
it is located. The failure of the building official to serve any person
required herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as
to any other person duly served or relieve any such other person from any duty
or obligation imposed by the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Method of service. Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such
notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
to each such person at their address as it appears on the last tax assessment
roll of the county or as known to the building official. If no address of any
such person so appears or is known to the building official, then a copy of the
notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such person, at the address
of the building involved in the proceedings. The failure of any such person to
receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken
under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner herein provided
shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   (E)   Proof of service. Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the persons affecting service, declaring the time, date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration, together with any receipt
card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail shall be affixed
to the copy of the notice and order retained by the building official.
   (F)   Repair, vacation and demolition. The following standards shall be
followed by the building official (and by the City Council if an appeal is
taken) in ordering the repair or vacation of any dangerous or nuisance building
or structure:
      (1)   Any building declared a dangerous or nuisance building for which
repairs are ordered under this chapter shall be repaired in accordance with any
applicable current building code or other current code applicable to the type
of substandard conditions requiring repair, or the building may be demolished
at the option of the building owner.
      (2)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (G)   Notice to vacate.
      (1)   Every notice to vacate shall in addition to being served as
provided in §§
97.07(C) and (D), be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be
substantially the following form:
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a violation of City Ordinance to occupy
this building, or to remove or deface this notice.
                              City of Union
                              By: ____________________
      (2)   Whenever such notice is posted, the building official shall include
a notification thereof in the notice and order issued under §
97.07(B), reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which
necessitate the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which
has been so posted, except entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such
building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any such notice after
it is posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal have been
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the applicable building code.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Form of appeal. Any person entitled to service under §
97.07(C) may appeal from any notice, order, or action of the building official
under this chapter by filing at the office of the City Council a written appeal
containing:
      (1)   A heading in the words: “Before the City Council of the City of
Union.”
      (2)   A caption reading: “Appeal of ____________________,” giving the
names of all appellants participating in the appeal.
      (3)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order.
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant.
      (5)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside.
      (6)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses.
      (7)   The verification (by declaration under penalty of perjury) of at
least one appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
      (8)   The appeal shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the
service of such order or action of the building official; provided, however,
that if the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to life, limb, property or safety of the public or
adjacent property and is ordered vacated and is posted in accordance with §
97.07(G), such appeal shall be filed within ten days from the date of the
service of the notice and order of the building official.
   (B)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the building official shall present it at the next regular or
special meeting of the City Council.
   (C)   Scheduling and noticing appeal for hearing. As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal, the City Council shall fix a date, time and
place for the hearing of the appeal by the City Council. Such date shall not be
less than ten days nor more than 60 days from the date the appeal was filed
with the building official. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant by the City Council either by causing a copy of such notice to be
delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage
prepaid, addressed to the appellant at the address shown on the appeal, by
ordinary first-class mail.
   (D)   Effect of failure to appeal. Failure of any person to file an appeal
in accordance with the provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of
the right to an administrative hearing before the City Council, and shall also
constitute a waiver of the right to a judicial appeal.
   (E)   Scope of hearing on appeal. Only those matters or issues specifically
raised by the appellant in the written notice of appeal, filed pursuant to this
section shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal.
   (F)   Staying of order under appeal. Except for vacation orders made
pursuant to §
97.07, enforcement of any notice and order of the building official issued
under this chapter shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal therefrom
which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.09 PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING APPEALS.
   (A)   General; hearings examiners. The City Council shall hear all appeals,
but in lieu thereof may appoint one or more hearing examiners, or designate one
of its own members, to serve as a hearing examiner to conduct the hearings. The
examiner hearing the case shall exercise all powers relating to the conduct of
hearings until it is submitted to the City Council for decision. Once the
examiner’s decision is presented to the Council, as provided below, only those
City Council members attending the presentation may participate in the
decision.
   (B)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording.
   (C)   Continuances. The City Council may grant continuances for good cause
shown; however, when a hearing examiner has been assigned to such hearing, no
continuances may be granted except by the examiner for good cause shown so long
as the matter remains before the examiner.
   (D)   Oaths - certification. In any proceedings under this section, the City
Council, any council member, the city attorney, or the hearing examiner has the
power to administer oaths and affirmations.
   (E)   Reasonable dispatch. The City Council and its representatives shall
proceed with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard
shall be shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
   (F)   Form of notice of hearing. The notice to appellant shall be
substantially in the following form, but may include other information:
      “You are hereby notified that the hearing related to your appeal will be
held before (the City Council or name of hearing examiner) at
____________________ on the _____ day of _______________, at the hour of
__________ . You may be present at the hearing. You may be, but need not be,
represented by counsel. You may present any relevant evidence and will be given
full opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you. If you
do not appear, your appeal may be denied.”
   (G)   Conduct of hearing.
      (1)   Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
      (2)   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
      (3)   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to
support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions
pursuant to the Rules of Civil Procedure applicable to the Circuit Courts for
the State of Oregon.
      (4)   Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is of the type of
evidence on which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of
serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory
rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection in
civil actions pursuant to the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure applicable in
Circuit Court.
      (5)   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
      (6)   Each party shall have these rights, among others:
         (a)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
         (b)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
         (c)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to
the issues of the hearing;
         (d)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called
the witness to testify;
         (e)   To rebut the evidence; and
         (f)   To be represented by anyone who is lawfully permitted to do so.
      (7)   Official notice.
         (a)   In reaching a decision, official notice may be taken, either
before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact which may be
judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official records of this
city.
         (b)   Parties present at the hearing shall be informed of the matters
to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the record, referred to
therein, or appended thereto.
         (c)   Parties present at the hearing shall be given a reasonable
opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed matters by evidence
or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner of such refutation
to be determined by the City Council or the hearing examiner.
         (d)   The City Council or the hearing examiner may inspect any
building or premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing,
provided that (I) notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties
before the inspection is made, (ii) the parties are given an opportunity to be
present during the inspection, and (iii) the City Council or the hearing
examiner shall state for the record upon completion of the inspection the
material facts observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom. Each party then
shall have a right to rebut or explain the matters so stated by the City
Council or hearing examiner. A request for an appeal before the City Council
shall constitute irrevocable permission for any and all inspections deemed
necessary or important by the City Council or hearing examiner.
   (H)   Method and form of decision.
      (1)   When a contested case is heard before the City Council itself, a
member thereof who did not hear the evidence shall not vote on or take part in
the decision.
      (2)   If a contested case is heard by one or more hearing examiners, the
examiner, or examiners as the case may be, shall within a reasonable time (not
to exceed 45 days from the date the hearing is closed) submit a written report
to the City Council. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence
considered and state the findings, conclusions and recommendations. The report
also shall contain a proposed decision in such form that it may be adopted by
the City Council as its decision in the case. All examiner’s reports filed with
the City Council shall be matters of public record. A copy of each such report
and proposed decision shall be mailed to each party listed as an appellant on
the notice of appeal on the date they are filed with the City Council. With the
approval of the City Council, the examiner may have the assistance of the city
attorney in drafting the report and other required documents.
      (3)   The City Council shall fix the time, date and place to consider the
examiner’s report and proposed decision. Notice thereof shall be mailed to each
interested party not less than five days prior to the date fixed, unless it is
otherwise stipulated by all of the parties. At such time as the examiner’s
report is considered, there shall be no more evidence submitted, nor arguments
made by any party except as provided in §
97.09(H)(4). The consideration of the examiner’s report, and the meeting called
therefore, is solely for the opportunity of the City Council to deliberate.
      (4)   Not later than three business days before the date set to consider
the report, any party may file written exceptions to any part or all of the
examiner’s report and may attach thereto a proposed decision together with
written argument in support of such decision.
      (5)   The City Council may adopt or reject the proposed decision in its
entirety, or may modify the proposed decision with or without the assistance of
the city attorney.
      (6)   If the proposed decision is not adopted as provided in §
97.09(H)(5), the City Council may decide the case upon the entire record before
it, or may refer the case to the same or another hearing examiner or examiners
to take additional evidence. If the case is reassigned to a hearing examiner or
examiners, the examiner(s) shall prepare a report and proposed decision as
provided in §
97.09(H)(2) hereof after any additional evidence is submitted. Consideration of
such proposed decision by the City Council shall comply with the provisions of
this section.
   (7)   The decision of the City Council shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the
appellant, or appellants, personally or sent by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested.
   (8)   The effective date of the decision shall be as stated therein.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.10 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Circuit Court. Any appellant may appeal to the Circuit Court of the
State of Oregon for Union County for judicial review of the City Council’s
decision. The appeal shall be filed within thirty days from the effective date
of the decision. The failure of any person to file a request for judicial
review in accordance with the provisions of this section, and within the 30
days required, shall constitute a waiver of the right to judicial review, and
the decision of the City Council shall then be final.
   (B)   Rules. On judicial review to Circuit Court, all rules governing the
form of pleadings, procedure, the taking of evidence, and such other matters as
may affect the proceedings shall be governed by the Oregon Rules of Civil
Procedure, the Oregon Evidence Code, and such other applicable rules and laws
for proceedings in Circuit Court.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.11 ENFORCEMENT OF THE ORDER OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL OR CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   General. After any order of the building official or the City Council
made pursuant to this chapter shall have become final, no person to whom any
such order is directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any such order.
   (B)   Failure to obey order. If, after any order of the building official or
City Council made pursuant to this chapter has become final, the person to whom
such order is directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey such order, the
building official may institute any appropriate action to abate such building
as a public nuisance.
   (C)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair or demolition
does not commence within thirty days after any final notice and order issued
under this code becomes effective:
      (1)   The building official shall cause the building described in such
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice of
the form set forth in §
97.07(G).
      (2)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this section. No person shall remove or deface any such notice so
posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the building
official, or the City Council as the case may be, have been completed.
      (3)   The building official may, in addition to any other remedy herein
provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to correct
the conditions which render the building dangerous as set forth in the notice
and order; or, if the notice and order require demolition, to cause the
building to be sold and demolished, or demolished and the materials, rubble,
and debris thereof removed and the lot cleaned. Any such repair or demolition
work shall be accomplished and the costs thereof paid and recovered in the
manner hereinafter provided in this chapter. Any surplus realized from the sale
of any such building, or from the demolition thereof, over and above the cost
of demolition and of cleaning the lot, shall be paid over to the person or
persons lawfully entitled thereto. Nothing stated herein shall prevent the
building official from causing the building to be demolished by fire.
   (D)   Extension of time to perform work. Upon receipt of an application from
the person required to conform to the order and by agreement of such person to
comply with the order if allowed additional time, the building official may
grant an extension of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days, within which
to complete the repair, rehabilitation or demolition, if the building official
determines that such an extension of time will not create or perpetuate a
situation imminently dangerous to life or property. The building official’s
authority to extend time is limited to the physical repair, rehabilitation or
demolition of the premises and will not in any way affect the time to appeal
the notice and order.
   (E)   Interference with repair or demolition work prohibited. No person
shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee, contractor or
authorized representative of the city or with any person who owns or holds any
estate or interest in any building which has been ordered repaired, vacated or
demolished under the provisions of this chapter, or with any person to whom
such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, whenever such officer, employee, contractor or authorized
representative of the city, a person having an interest or estate in such
building or structure, or a purchaser is engaged in the work of repairing,
vacating and repairing, or demolishing any such building, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, or in performing any necessary act preliminary to
or incidental to such work or authorized or directed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.12 PERFORMANCE OF WORK, REPAIR, OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Procedure. When any work of repair or demolition is to be done
pursuant to §
97.11(C)(3) of this chapter, the building official shall issue an order
therefore to the City Council, and the work shall be accomplished by private
contract under the direction of the City Council. Plans and specifications
therefore may be prepared by City Council, or the City Council may employ such
architectural and engineering assistance on a contract basis as deemed
reasonably necessary. If any part of the work is to be accomplished by private
contract, standard public works contractual procedures shall be followed. In
the alternative, and as may be allowed by state law, the City may employ its
own personnel to accomplish the work.
   (B)   Costs. The cost of such work shall be paid from the repair and
demolition fund, and may be made a special assessment against the property
involved, and/or may be made a personal obligation of the property owner,
whichever the City Council shall determine is appropriate.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.13 REPAIR AND DEMOLITION FUND.
   (A)   General. If city funds are used for repairs or demolition, the City
Council shall establish a special revolving fund to be designated as the Repair
and Demolition Fund. Payments shall be made out of the fund upon the demand of
the City Council to defray the costs and expenses which may be incurred by the
city in doing or causing to be done the necessary work of repair or demolition
of dangerous buildings.
   (B)   Maintenance of Fund. The City Council may at any time transfer to the
Repair and Demolition Fund, out of any money in the General Fund of this
jurisdiction, such sums as it may deem necessary in order to expedite the
performance of the work of repair or demolition, and any sums so transferred
shall be deemed a loan to the Repair and Demolition Fund and shall be repaid
out of the proceeds of the collections hereinafter provided for. All funds
collected under the proceedings hereinafter provided for shall be paid to the
city, and credited to the Repair and Demolition Fund. Nothing stated in this
chapter shall require the city to at any time appropriate funds to the Repair
and Demolition Fund if no expenses are expected to be incurred in a given
budget year.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.14 RECOVERY OF COST OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Account of expense, filing of report. The City Council or building
official shall keep an itemized account of the expense incurred by the city in
the repair or demolition of any building done pursuant to provisions of this
chapter. Upon the completion of the work of repair or demolition, the City
Council or building official shall prepare and file with the clerk of the City
Council a report specifying the work done, the itemized and total cost of the
work, a description of the real property upon which the building or structure
is or was located, and the names and addresses of the persons entitled to
notice pursuant to §
97.07(C).
   (B)   Notice of hearing. At the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Council following the filing of the report referred to in division (A) of this
section, the City Council shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the
report and any protest and objections thereto. The City Council, or its
designee, shall cause notice of the hearing to be posted upon the property
involved, published once in a newspaper of general circulation in Umatilla
County, and served by certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
of the property as the owner’s name and address appears on the last tax
assessment roll of the county, if such so appears, or as is known by the City
Council, and to the other persons referred to in §
97.07(C). Such notice shall be given at least ten days prior to the date set
for the hearing and shall specify the day, hour and place when the City Council
will hear and pass upon the report, together with any objections or protests
which may be filed as hereinafter provided by any person interested in or
affected by the proposed charge.
   (C)   Protests and objections. Any person interested in or affected by the
proposed charge may file written protests or objections with the City Council
no later than one day prior to the time set for the hearing on the report
referred to in division (A) of this section. Each such protest or objection
must contain a description of the property in which the signer thereof is
interested, the nature of the signer’s interest in the property, and the
grounds of such protest or objection. Such protests or objections shall be
considered by the City Council at the time set for the hearing, and no other
protests or objections shall be considered.
   (D)   Hearing of protests.
      (1)   Upon the day and hour fixed for the hearing, the City Council shall
hear and pass upon the report referred to in division (A) of this section
together with any such objections or protests. The City Council may make such
revision, correction or modification in the report or the charge as it may deem
just; and when the City Council is satisfied with the correctness of the
charge, the report (as submitted or as revised, corrected or modified) together
with the charge, shall be confirmed or rejected. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City Council may refer the hearing referred to in this section to a hearing
examiner, whose decision will have the same effect as a decision by the City
Council.
      (2)   The City Council or hearing examiner may thereupon order that the
charge shall be made a personal obligation of the property owner and/or may
assess the charge against the property involved.
      (3)   If the City Council or hearing examiner orders that the charge
shall be a personal obligation of the property owner, the city may use all
appropriate legal remedies that may be reasonable under the circumstances given
the amount to be recovered and the chances of actual payment.
      (4)   If the City Council or hearing examiner orders that the charge
shall be assessed against the property, it shall confirm the assessment, cause
the same to be recorded on the assessment roll, and thereafter the assessment
shall constitute a special assessment against and a lien upon the property.
      (5)   The decision on the report, charges, and assessments shall be final
and conclusive except as state or federal law may otherwise require a right for
judicial review, in which case the procedures and deadlines set forth in §
97.l0 shall apply.
   (E)    Authority for installment payment of assessments with interest. The
City Council, in its discretion, may determine that assessments in amounts of
$500 or more may be payable in not to exceed five equal annual payments. The
City Council’s determination to allow payment of such assessments in
installments, the number of installments, whether they shall bear interest, and
the rate thereof shall be by a resolution and is not appealable.
   (F)   Lien of assessment.
      (1)   Immediately upon its being placed on the assessment roll, the
assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts assessed shall
be payable, and the assessment shall be liens against the lots or parcels of
land assessed, respectively. The lien shall be subordinate to all existing
special assessment liens previously imposed upon the same property and shall be
paramount to all other liens except for state, county and property taxes with
which it shall be in parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment and
all interest due and payable thereon are paid.
      (2)   All such assessments remaining unpaid after 30 days from the date
of recording on the assessment roll shall become delinquent and shall bear
interest at the rate of 9% per annum from and after the date.
      (3)   The lien may be enforced, collected upon and foreclosed in
accordance with the provisions of O.R.S. 223.505 through 223.650 or other state
law, and by suit in equity or at law in Circuit Court.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.15 JOINT AND SEVERAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible or liable under any
provision of this chapter, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating a provision of this chapter or an order issued
under authority of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation punishable by a fine set by the Union City Council by resolution or
ordinance. Such a person shall also be subject to any civil remedies available
to the city as set forth in this chapter or as otherwise provided for by law.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter or of an order
issued under authority of this chapter constitutes a separate violation. The
abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this chapter, but
instead is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a
person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a nuisance
within ten days of the date of notice to abate, or if a protest or appeal has
been filed pursuant to the terms of this chapter, abatement within ten days of
the disposition of the protest or appeal if a nuisance is found to exist, will
excuse the person responsible from the imposition of any fine.
   (C)   The statement of a penalty within this chapter is not preclusive, and
shall not prevent the imposition of other penalties that may be applicable
under any other ordinance, statute, regulation, or resolution.
(Ord. 542, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 98: NOXIOUS VEGETATION
Section
   
98.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
98.02   Abatement of nuisances
   
98.03   Assessment of costs
   
98.04   Liability
   
98.05   Joint and several responsibility
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.   
      NOXIOUS WEED. A terrestrial, aquatic, or marine plant designated by the
Oregon State Weed Board under O.R.S. 569.615 as among those representing the
greatest public menace and as a top priority for action by weed control
programs.
      NUISANCE WEED. Any trees, plants, shrubs, grass, brush, weed, or other
vegetation growing upon any property, which:
         (a)   Has grown and died or has dried or is in a desiccated state and
has become a fire hazard and/or a menace to public health, safety, and welfare;
or
         (b)   Are weeds or grass, except ornamental grasses, averaging more
than ten inches in height.
      PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, legal entity,
or corporation.
      PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY, PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY,
or other similar phrase. Any one or more than one occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, owner, or person having possession of, control of, occupancy at, or
title to, the subject property.
   (B)   Responsibility. A person in charge of property shall have
responsibility for all vegetation on the subject property.
   (C)   Nuisances. Noxious or nuisance weeds existing anywhere within the city
limits are declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Enforcing authority. The City Council shall have full authority of law
to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The City Council may delegate any
portion or all of this authority to its agents. Nothing herein shall limit the
responsibility, authority, or powers of enforcement given under other city
ordinances or other state law. The term COUNCIL as used in this chapter, shall
mean the City Council or its agent.
   (E)   Prohibition. No person in charge of property may allow nuisances to
exist on the property. It shall be the duty of a person in charge of property
to remove nuisance and noxious weeds in violation of this chapter as often as
needed to prevent them from becoming a fire or health hazard, or to prevent
them from going to seed. A breach of any of these stated duties shall be a
violation of this chapter. Failure to abate a nuisance within the time required
by this chapter shall also be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 564, passed 11-8-
2021) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.02 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Public hearing. The City Council may compile a list of properties in
violation of this chapter as often as needed and may convene a public hearing
to consider abatement of noxious vegetation as a nuisance.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the public hearing, the City Council
shall cause a notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the persons in charge of the subject property, or properties as the
case may be, including any person with a recorded interest in such property, at
such person’s last known address.
      (2)   The notice to abate shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which the nuisance exists;
         (b)   A direction that the nuisance be abated, and if the nuisance
consists of any of the weeds that are identified in §
98.01(A) that they must be destroyed and/or prevented from producing seed or
spreading within ten days from the date of the notice, or that the owner appear
before the council at the public hearing to show just cause why the nuisance
should not be abated;
         (c)   A description of the nuisance;
         (d)   A statement that failure to abate the violation within the time
provided may warrant imposition of a fine for each day of non-compliance;
         (e)   A statement that unless the nuisance is abated, as directed in
the notice, the city may abate the nuisance, and the cost of abatement will be
charged to the persons in charge of the property and become a lien against the
property;
         (f)   A statement that it will be the responsibility of the person in
charge of the property to notify the City Council of any chemical abatement
efforts once they are completed, and that if the notification is not given and
the city thereafter abates the nuisance, the person in charge of property will
nonetheless be responsible for the city’s costs.
      (3)   Upon compliance with the above notice requirements, the person
undertaking the mailing shall execute and file certificates with the City
Council or its designee stating the date and place of mailing and attaching a
copy of the mailing.
      (4)   An error in the name and/or address of the person in charge of
property, or of the persons with recorded interests, shall not make the notice
void.
   (C)   Resolution. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the council may
pass a resolution authorizing the abatement of any identified nuisance at the
cost of the person in charge of the subject property. The resolution will
include the authorization for the City Council or its agent at reasonable times
to enter into or upon property to investigate or cause the removal of a
nuisance.
   (D)   Judicial assistance.
      (1)   At the election of the City Council, this chapter may be enforced
by suit in a court of competent jurisdiction, including the Circuit Court of
the State of Oregon for Union County. In any such legal action, the Court shall
have the authority to award to the city all remedies that are provided for in
this chapter including, but not limited to, directing the defendants to abate
the nuisance, imposing fines against the defendants payable to the city, and
granting the city the right to proceed with abatement and to charge the
defendants with the cost thereof and to have such costs be a lien against the
subject property. The Court shall also have the authority to allow for any
other remedy available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief.
      (2)   In any legal action, all rules governing the form of pleadings,
procedures, the taking of evidence, and such other matters as may affect the
proceeding shall be governed by the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure, the Oregon
Evidence Code, and such other rules and laws applicable to proceedings in
Circuit Court and/or as directed by the judge presiding over the proceedings.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 98.03 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall keep an accurate record of the expenses
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include
therein a charge of $15 or 15% of those expenses, whichever is greater, for
administrative overhead.
   (B)   The City Council by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
shall forward to the persons in charge of the property and any person with a
recorded interest in the property a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative overhead;
      (2)   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice,
and shall be the personal obligation of the person or persons in charge of
property; and
      (3)   That if the person in charge of property objects to the costs of
the abatement as indicated, the person may file a notice of objection with the
City Council not more than ten days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   After the expiration of ten days following the date of the notice, but
in the regular course of business, the council shall hear and determine the
objections to the costs assessed. Upon such determination, the amount of the
costs assessed shall be the personal obligation of the person or persons in
charge of the subject property.
   (D)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as determined by
the council, shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the
docket of city liens. Upon the entry being made, it shall constitute a lien
upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (E)   The lien and personal obligation to pay shall bear interest at the
rate of 9% per annum. The interest shall begin to run from the date the City
Council determines by resolution the amount of the assessment. The City Council
may foreclose the lien in accordance with O.R.S. 223.505 through 223.650, and
in accordance with any other legal procedures available at law or in equity.
   (F)   Neither an error in the name of the person in charge of property nor a
failure of such person to receive the notice of the proposed assessment render
the assessment void; but it shall remain a valid personal obligation and lien
against the property.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 98.04 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person in charge of property containing vegetation in violation of
this chapter shall be liable to any person who is injured or otherwise suffers
damage by reason of such vegetation or the by reason of a failure to abate or
removed the same.
   (B)   Neither the city, or any of its officers, agents, employees, or city
council members, shall be liable to any person who is injured or otherwise
suffers damage by reason of vegetation existing in violation of this chapter.
However, if this exemption from liability is unenforceable, and in any event,
the person in charge of the subject property shall be primarily liable to the
injured party and shall indemnify the city, its officers, agents, city council
members, and employees, for any judgment against any of them, and shall be
liable to them for any expense paid or incurred, including attorney’s fees, to
defend themselves or to settle the claim of any injured person.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 98.05 JOINT AND SEVERAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible or liable under any
provision of this chapter, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating a provision of this chapter or an order issued
under authority of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation punishable by a fine set by the Union City Council by resolution.
Such a person shall also be subject to any civil remedies available to the city
as set forth in this chapter or as otherwise provided for by law.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter or of an order
issued under authority of this chapter constitutes a separate violation. The
abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this chapter, but
instead is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a
person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a nuisance
within ten days of the date of notice to abate, or if a protest or appeal has
been filed pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the abatement within ten days
of the disposition of the protest or appeal if a nuisance is found to exist,
will excuse the person responsible from the imposition of any fine.
   (C)   The City Council may, in its discretion, suspend, cancel, or delay the
imposition of fines provided for by this chapter. Also, at the City Council’s
discretion, fines may be suspended or otherwise abated during the period during
which the rights of review provided for herein are properly exercised; in
exercising the discretion provided for in this sentence, the City Council shall
consider the degree to which the review sought has been frivolous as well as
other factors considered relevant in the Council’s judgment.
   (D)   The statement of a penalty within this chapter is not preclusive, and
shall not prevent the imposition of other penalties or remedies that may be
available to the city under any other ordinance, statute, regulation, law, or
resolution.
(Ord. 544, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 547, passed 4-13-2015)
CHAPTER 99: REGULATING SOLID AND OTHER WASTES
Section
   
99.01   General provisions
   
99.02   Accumulation and stockpiling prohibited; declaration of public nuisance
   
99.03   Investigation
   
99.04   Entry on private property
   
99.05   Form of request for hearing
   
99.06   Hearing before City Council or hearing examiner
   
99.07   Abatement by the city
   
99.08   Lien of assessment
   
99.09   Judicial review and enforcement
   
99.10   Joint and several responsibility
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY OFFICIAL. Any designee of the City Council and city officer, agent,
or employee, acting in the course of official duties for purposes of the
enforcement of this chapter.
      PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, legal entity,
or corporation.
      PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY or PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
Any one or more than one occupant, lessee, contract purchaser, owner, or person
having possession of, control of, occupancy at, or title to, the subject
property.
      WASTE. Matter or material that is:
         (a)   Hazardous to health and safety of the public;
         (b)   Organic materials that can decompose, giving rise to foul
smelling products, or creating a health hazard, or which are capable of
attracting or providing food for potential disease carriers such as birds,
rodents, flies and other vectors; and
         (c)   Materials and matter accumulated on property so as to constitute
a public nuisance recognized by common law.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This chapter does not apply to materials or items that might
otherwise constitute waste if such is kept and maintained in a business
licensed as a junk yard or automobile wrecking yard which is operating in
accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, including zoning laws, or
to items or materials accumulated for recycle in a recycling business operating
as such and in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, including
zoning laws. To be exempted by this paragraph, such items and materials must be
enclosed by a secure fence that is no less than six feet tall and is so sight
obscuring as to prevent a person from seeing into the enclosed area from other
property or from a right of way or sidewalk, and such items and materials must
be stored in a fashion that does not otherwise constitute a nuisance at common
law.
      (2)   This chapter does not apply to the accumulation of firewood, nor
does it apply to the accumulation of construction materials at the location of
properly permitted construction work when the stored materials are exclusively
for use at the site.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.02 ACCUMULATION AND STOCKPILING PROHIBITED; DECLARATION OF PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, accumulate, store, maintain, allow to exist,
or display waste on any property within the city, except as specifically
permitted by this chapter or as otherwise authorized by law.
   (B)   No person or occupant of any land in the city shall authorize, permit
or suffer violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of this chapter do not apply to the
following:
      (1)   The temporary accumulation of limited quantities of waste in
standard garbage or recycling collection receptacles provided for that purpose
pending disposal or recycling in a legal manner, providing that the waste does
not create offensive odors, unsightly conditions, or hazards to health; and
      (2)   The accumulation and distribution of compost, silage, or livestock
manure in conjunction with normal crop or animal husbandry activities, so long
as such activity is in compliance with all applicable zoning regulations, does
not physically encroach upon the land of another, violates no statutes, rules,
regulations, ordinances of the Department of Environmental Quality or the city,
and is conducted in a reasonable manner so as to minimize any offensive odor,
unsightly condition, or hazard to health.
   (D)   The accumulation and storage of waste is hereby found to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight,
deterioration and unsightliness, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards,
to create a harborage for rodents and insects, and to be injurious to the
health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. Therefore,
the presence of waste on private property in violation of this chapter is
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in
accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Nothing stated within this chapter shall be construed to allow the
accumulation or stockpiling of any waste prohibited by any other ordinance or
regulation of the city or by any land use regulations or any other applicable
laws, or to declare any noncommercial accumulation or stockpiling of waste as
commercial, or to override provisions of any ordinance of the city regarding
home occupations, or commercial endeavors relating to the storage and
accumulation of commercial products. Nothing stated in this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing any activity which at common law would constitute a
public or private nuisance nor as legislatively amending or changing common law
nuisance principles.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.03 INVESTIGATION.
   When a city official has determined that a violation of this chapter exists
on property which should be abated, the official shall:
   (A)   Attempt to discover the name and address of the owner and occupant of
the property, the person responsible for the accumulation or deposit of the
waste, and all persons who may be in charge of the real property on which the
violation exists as such persons are defined in §
99.01(A);
   (B)   Give written notice to the persons described in division (A) of this
section by regular first class mail and registered or certified mail requiring
a return receipt that there is a violation of this chapter. If the owner or
occupant of the property is not found, the city official shall place a notice
posted on the property where it can easily be seen;
   (C)   Contents of notice. The notice referred to in the preceding division
shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property by street address or otherwise,
on which the violation exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the violation within no less than 15 days from
the date of the notice;
      (3)   A description of the violation;
      (4)   A statement that unless the violation is abated, the city may
enter, abate the violation, and charge the costs of abatement to the person
responsible and/or impose a lien against the real property on which the
violation was abated;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate the violation within the time
provided may warrant imposition of a fine;
      (6)   A statement that the alternative to compliance with the notice is
to make a written request within 15 calendar days of the date of the notice for
a hearing before the City Council to show why abatement should not be required
or why more time for abatement may be needed. This statement shall list the
required contents of the request for hearing that are set forth in §
99.05.
      (7)   A statement that if there is no request for a hearing before the
City Council within 15 calendar days of the date of the notice, the
determination as set forth in the notice shall be final with no right to
further protest or otherwise appeal.
   (D)   Upon completion of posting and mailing, the persons posting and
mailing shall execute and file certificates with the City Council stating the
date and place of the mailing and posting.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.04 ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Upon compliance with all applicable procedures, city officials are
authorized to enter onto private property at all reasonable times to examine
items and materials reasonably suspected to constitute wastes in violation of
this chapter and following the procedures set forth to take steps necessary to
abate violations hereof.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.05 FORM OF REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person entitled to service of a notice under this chapter may
within 15 calendar days of the date of the notice file a request for hearing
before the City Council. The request need not be in any particular form but
shall include the following:
      (1)   The name of the person requesting a hearing and all other persons
joining in the request;
      (2)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
persons requesting the hearing;
      (3)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested;
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed that the protested order or action
should be reversed, modified, or otherwise set aside;
      (5)   The signatures of all the parties requesting a hearing and their
official mailing addresses; and
      (6)   A statement by declaration under penalty of perjury that all of the
matters stated within the request for hearing are true.
   (B)   Normally a late request for a hearing before the City Council will not
be considered. However, in unusual circumstances the City Council may excuse an
untimely request if the requesting party provides information excusing a lack
of timely response by certifying the date of actual notice to the requesting
party and accounting for all delay between the day of actual notice and the day
of delivering the request for hearing to the City Council. General press of
personal business shall not excuse an untimely request.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.06 HEARING BEFORE CITY COUNCIL OR HEARING EXAMINER.
   (A)   Following a request for a hearing, the City Council shall itself or
through a hearing examiner provide a hearing for the requesting party to show
cause why a violation does not exist, or why the violation should not be abated
within the time provided, and to receive evidence and the testimony of the city
official and other interested persons, or other witnesses, concerning the
existence, location, and condition of the alleged violation.
      (1)   After the hearing, the City Council may order the property a
nuisance in violation of this chapter and direct that the violation be abated
by the person responsible, and/or by other person or persons in charge of the
property, and/or by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the hearing was referred to a hearing examiner by the City
Council, the hearings examiner and the City Council shall proceed in the
fashion provided for in §
97.09(H), relating to dangerous building.
   (B)   Persons entitled to the notice specified in §
99.03(A) shall be sent copies of the order in the manner provided for in that
section.
   (C)   The City Council may impose conditions and take other actions
considered appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purposes of
this chapter. The City Council may delay the time for abatement of the nuisance
when, in the council's opinion, circumstances justify such action. The City
Council shall refuse to order abatement of the violation when the property, in
the opinion of the City Council, is not subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The City Council shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence in
conducting the hearing.
   (D)   Nothing stated in this chapter shall prevent the City Council from
entering into a consent agreement with the person or persons responsible, or
person or persons in charge of property, that provides for the manner and means
of abatement other than as provided for herein, provided that the consent
agreement is in the form of a final contract enforceable in a court of law or
equity and the contract specifically waives any right of the person contracting
with the City Council to contest whether a violation of this chapter exists or
existed or whether the condition of the subject property constitutes a
nuisance.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.07 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   (A)   The city may abate the violation, or cause the violation to be abated,
when:
      (1)   The terms of any consent agreement between the city and the person
responsible or person in charge of property so provide, or when the terms of a
consent agreement have been violated by the person or persons signing the
consent agreement;
      (2)   The person responsible has been mailed the notice required by §
99.03, and the violation stated within the notice has not been abated within
the time provided in the notice and no hearing has been requested;
      (3)   Following hearing the corrective action required by the City
Council has not been completed by the date specified; or
      (4)   There have been court proceedings which have become final,
resulting in an order by the court directing abatement, and abatement has not
been completed within the time required by the court's order.
   (B)   The decision to proceed to abatement by the city shall be made by the
City Council.
   (C)   Summary abatement. Whenever a violation causes a condition the
continued existence of which constitutes an immediate or emergent threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare, or to the environment, the city may
summarily and without prior notice, abate the condition. Notice of such
abatement, including the reason for it, shall be given to the person or persons
responsible for the violation as soon as reasonably possible. The costs of
summary abatement shall be charged to the person responsible and become a lien
upon the property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter applicable
to costs of non-summary abatements.
   (D)   When the city proceeds to abate as provided for herein it may do so
using any lawful means, the city or its agents may enter upon the subject
property and may remove or correct a violation which has become the proper
subject of abatement. The city may also seek such judicial process as it deems
necessary to effect the abatement.
   (E)   Interference prohibited. No person shall obstruct, impede, or
interfere with the city or its agents, or with any person retained or hired by
the city to effect the abatement, or with any person who is a person in charge
of the property, in performing any acts necessary to correct a violation.
   (F)   The city shall maintain a record of all expenses incurred in abating a
waste violation. The record shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
the costs of mailing notices, the expense of title reports, title searches, and
lien searches, charges for labor and personal services, equipment rentals, the
costs of contractors, materials expense, fuel costs, survey expenses,
reasonable charge for use of city-owned equipment, land fill fees, the costs of
transportation, etc., and an additional charge of 15% for administrative
overhead.
   (G)   A notice of assessment for the costs of abatement shall be sent by
certified mail with return receipt to the responsible party or parties and
those entitled to receive the notice provided for in §
99.03 hereof. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The total costs of abatement, including the administrative
overhead;
      (2)   A statement that the costs of abatement are the personal obligation
of the person in charge of the subject property and will become a lien against
the property unless paid within 60 days;
      (3)   A statement that if person in charge of the property objects to the
cost of the abatement, he or she may file a notice of objection with the city
within 15 days of the date of the notice; and
      (4)   A statement that a fee for recording the costs of abatement as a
lien against the property may be added to the cost of abatement.
   (H)   Objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by
the City Council before the proposed assessment becomes a lien against the
property.
   (I)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 60 days from the
date of the notice of costs, or if an objection was timely filed, from the date
of the city's determination of costs, the costs of abatement shall be filed and
recorded as a lien upon the property and shall be entered into the docket of
city liens. When the entry is made, it shall constitute a lien on the property
from which the violation was abated.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.08 LIEN OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Immediately upon its being placed on the assessment roll, the
assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts assessed shall
be payable, and the assessment shall be liens against the lots or parcels of
land assessed, respectively. The lien shall continue until the assessment and
all interest due and payable thereon are paid.
   (B)   All such personal obligations and assessments remaining unpaid after
thirty days from the date of recording on the assessment roll shall become
delinquent and shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum from and after
said date.
   (C)   The lien may be enforced, collected upon and foreclosed in accordance
with the provisions of O.R.S.§§ 223.505 through 223.650 and by suit in equity
or at law in circuit court.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.09 JUDICIAL REVIEW AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Judicial review.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the City Council may
appeal to the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for Union County for
judicial review of the City Council's decision. The appeal shall be filed
within 30 days from the effective date of the decision. The failure of any
person to file a request for judicial review in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, and within the thirty days required, shall constitute a waiver
of the right to judicial review, and the decision of the City Council shall
then be final. There shall be no right to judicial review if the person
appealing did not timely seek a hearing before the City Council, or receive
from the City Council an order excusing the late request, and then thereafter
pursue to conclusion the hearing and then timely seek an appeal.
      (2)   On judicial review to Circuit Court, all rules governing the form
of pleadings, procedures, the taking of evidence, and such other matters as may
affect the proceeding shall be governed by the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure,
the Oregon Evidence Code, and such other rules and laws applicable to
proceedings in circuit court and/or as directed by the judge presiding over the
proceedings.
      (3)   Unless the violation is one subject to summary abatement, all
abatement activities shall be stayed during the course of the appeal.
   (B)   Judicial enforcement.
      (1)   At the election of the City Council, the city may dispense with the
notice and hearing procedures set forth above, and in lieu thereof enforce this
chapter by a civil action initiated by the City Attorney or special counsel in
any court of competent jurisdiction, including the Circuit Court of the State
of Oregon for Union County. Prior to the initiation of such suit the person or
persons in charge of the property shall be sent a notice which contains:
         (a)   A description of the real property by street address or
otherwise, on which the violation exists;
         (b)   A direction to abate the violation within no less than 15 days
from the date of the notice;
         (c)   A description of the violation;
         (d)   A statement that unless the violation is abated within the
stated time or within the time of any extension granted by the city, the city
will initiate legal action to enforce the terms of the city's solid waste
ordinance; and
         (e)   A statement that failure to abate the violation within the time
provided may warrant imposition of a fine.
      (2)   Upon completion of mailing, the persons doing so shall execute and
maintain in the city's records certificates stating the date and place of the
mailing and posting.
      (3)   If an enforcement proceeding is initiated using the notice
provisions of §
99.03, the City Council may at any time terminate such proceedings and direct
the City Attorney or special counsel to file legal action, in which case the
notice provided for in division (B)(1) of this section shall not be required.
Instead the persons in charge of the subject property shall be advised by first
class letter that the pending proceedings before the City Council are
terminated and that the City Attorney or special counsel as the case may be has
been directed to file suit to enforce this chapter.
      (4)   In any legal action, the court shall have the authority to award to
the city all remedies that are provided for in this chapter including, but not
limited to, directing the defendants to abate the nuisance, imposing fines as
set by generally set by the City Council against the defendants payable to the
city, and granting the city the right to proceed with abatement and to charge
the defendants with the cost thereof and to have such costs be a lien against
the subject property. The court shall also have the authority to allow for any
other remedy available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief.
      (5)   In any legal action, all rules governing the form of pleadings,
procedures, the taking of evidence, and such other matters as may affect the
proceeding shall be governed by the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure, the Oregon
Evidence Code, and such other rules and laws applicable to proceedings in
Circuit Court and/or as directed by the judge presiding over the proceedings.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.10 JOINT AND SEVERAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible or liable under any
provision of this chapter, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating a provision of this chapter or an order issued
under authority of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
violation punishable by a fine set by the Union City Council by resolution.
Such a person shall also be subject to any civil remedies available to the city
as set forth in this chapter or as otherwise provided for by law.
   (B)   Each day's violation of a provision of this chapter or of an order
issued under authority of this chapter constitutes a separate violation. The
abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this chapter, but
instead is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a
person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a nuisance
within ten days of the date of notice to abate, or if a protest or appeal has
been filed pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the abatement within ten days
of the disposition of the protest or appeal if a nuisance is found to exist,
will excuse the person responsible from the imposition of any fine.
   (C)   The City Council may, in its discretion, suspend, cancel, or delay the
imposition of fines provided for by this chapter. Also, at the City Council's
discretion, fines may be suspended or otherwise abated during the period during
which the rights of review provided for herein are properly exercised; in
exercising the discretion provided for in this sentence, the City Council shall
consider the degree to which the review sought has been frivolous as well as
other factors considered relevant in the Council's judgment.
   (D)   The statement of a penalty within this chapter is not preclusive, and
shall not prevent the imposition of other penalties or remedies that may be
available to the city under any other ordinance, statute, regulation, law, or
resolution.
(Ord. 555, passed 11-9-2014)
CHAPTER 100: REGULATING LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Findings
   
100.03   Scope
   
100.04   Definitions
   
100.05   General prohibition
   
100.06   Noises prohibited
   
100.07   Exemptions
   
100.08   Enforcement
 
   
100.99   Penalties
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of the city through the
reduction, control, and prevention of loud and raucous noise, or any noise
which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety; or causes public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds:
   (A)   Loud and raucous noise degrades the environment of the city to a
degree that it:
      (1)   Is harmful to the health, welfare, and safety of its inhabitants
and visitors;
      (2)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property;
      (3)   Interferes with the well-being, tranquility, and privacy of the
home; and
      (4)   Both causes and aggravates health problems.
   (B)   Both the effective control and the elimination of loud and raucous
noise are essential to the health and welfare of the city inhabitants and
visitors, and to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life, including
recreation, work, relaxation and communication.
   (C)   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and raucous
noise that may, in a particular manner and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace, and freedom of
inhabitants of, and visitors to, the city.
   (D)   Certain short-term easing of noise restrictions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure, and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the city.
   (E)   The obligation to draft regulations that affect speech in a content-
neutral fashion is of paramount importance to protect the freedom of expression
guaranteed by Article I, section 8, of the Oregon Constitution and the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution. This chapter enacts narrowly
drawn, content-neutral regulations that are to be interpreted as such so as not
to infringe upon constitutionally protected rights.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Union.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager of the city or the City Administrator's
designee.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Includes, but is not limited to, real property
normally used for sleeping, or normally used as a school, church, hospital or
public library.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture, or
corporation.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a reasonable person of
ordinary sensitivities using his or her unaided hearing faculties exceeding 70
db and 50 feet between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. or 60 db 25 feet 9 p.m. to 7 p.m.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity and normally accessible to the public, including but not
limited to parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real property which contains a structure or building
in which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or building is
properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use in accordance
with the terms and maps of the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.05 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued:
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise; or
      (2)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the city; or
      (3)   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noises emanate, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
   (B)   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and
raucous include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
      (2)   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      (3)   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
      (4)   The duration of the sound; and
      (5)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.06 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are declared to be violations of this chapter. This
enumeration does not constitute an exclusive list:
   (A)   Unreasonable noises. The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion or vibration in any boarding facility,
dwelling, place of business or other structure, or upon any public street,
park, or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds, noises,
commotion or vibration incidental to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
which will not unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent
residences or which will not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent
places of business are exempted from this provision.
   (B)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices, and similar devices. The sounding of
any horn, signaling device, or other similar device, on any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle on any right-of-way or in any public space of the
city, for more than ten consecutive seconds. The sounding of any horn,
signaling device, or other similar device, as a danger warning is exempt from
this prohibition.
   (C)   Non-emergency signaling devices.: Sounding or permitting sounding any
amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device,
intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any place for more than ten
consecutive seconds in any hourly period. The reasonable sounding of such
devices by houses of religious worship, ice cream trucks, permitted seasonal
contribution solicitors or by the city for traffic control purposes are exempt
from the operation of this provision.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency or except as provided in divisions (1) and (2),
below.
      (1)   Testing of an emergency signaling device shall occur between 7:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time. In
no case shall such test time exceed five minutes. Testing of the emergency
signaling system shall not occur more than once in each calendar month.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, shall terminate within fifteen
minutes of activation unless an emergency exists. If a false or accidental
activation of an alarm occurs more than twice in a calendar month, the owner or
person responsible for the alarm shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Radios, televisions, boom boxes, phonographs, stereos, musical
instruments and similar devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boom Box, stereo, musical instrument, or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighbors and passers-by, or is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space. The use
or operation of a radio, television, boom box, stereo, musical instrument, or
similar device that produces or reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly
audible to any person other than the player(s) or operator(s) of the device,
and those who are voluntarily listening to the sound, and unreasonably disturbs
the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighbors in residential or noise sensitive
areas, including multi-family or single-family dwellings.
   (F)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems, and similar devices.
The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system, or other device for producing or reproducing sound
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 10:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays in the following areas:
      (1)   Within or adjacent to residential or noise-sensitive areas;
      (2)   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the real
property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous. This shall not apply to any public performance,
gathering, or parade for which a permit has been obtained from the city.
   (G)   Yelling, shouting, and similar activities. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing in residential or noise sensitive areas or in public
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place
so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable
persons of ordinary sensitivities. This section is to be applied only to those
situations where the disturbance is not a result of the content of the
communication but due to the volume, duration, location, timing or other
factors not based on content.
   (H)   Animals and birds. Unreasonably loud and raucous noise emitted by an
animal or bird for which a person is responsible accumulative of ten minutes
out of any one hour.
   (I)   Loading or unloading merchandise, materials, equipment. The creation
of unreasonably loud, raucous, and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence.
   (J)   Residential maintenance, and or repair of home on weekends or after
hours: The maintenance or repair of a residential home on the weekends or after
hours other than between the hours of 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on weekends and 8:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays. In cases of emergency, maintenance or repair
noises are exempt from this provision.
   (K)   Construction or repair of buildings, excavation of streets and
highways: The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
the excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., on weekdays. In cases of emergency, construction or repair
noises are exempt from this provision. In non-emergency situations, the City
Manager may issue a permit, upon application, if the City Manager determines
that the public health and safety, as affected by loud and raucous noise caused
by construction or repair of buildings or excavation of streets and highways
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will not be impaired, and if the
City Manager further determines that loss or inconvenience would otherwise
result. The permit shall grant permission in non-emergency cases for a period
of not more than three days. The permit may be renewed once for a period of
three days or less.
   (L)   Noise sensitive area; schools, courts, churches, hospitals, and
similar institutions. The creation of any unreasonably loud and raucous noise
adjacent to any noise sensitive area while it is in use, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of the institution or which disturbs the persons
in these institutions; provided that conspicuous signs delineating the
boundaries of the noise sensitive area are displayed in the streets surrounding
the noise sensitive area.
   (M)   Blowers, and similar devices. In residential or noise sensitive areas,
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the operation of any noise-
creating blower, power fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of
which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, provided
that the noise is unreasonably loud and raucous and can be heard across the
property line of the property from which it emanates.
   (N)   Commercial establishments adjacent to residential property.
Unreasonably loud and raucous noise from the premises of any commercial
establishment, including any outdoor area which is part of or under the control
of the establishment, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. which is
plainly audible at a distance of ten feet from any residential property.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out in §
100.06 and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set forth in §
100.06:
   (A)   Motor vehicles on traffic ways of the city, provided that the
prohibition of §
100.06(B) continues to apply.
   (B)   Repairs of utility structures which pose a clear and immediate danger
to life, health, or significant loss of property.
   (C)   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity, or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in §
100.06(D) continues to apply.
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
   (E)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf
of the city, the state, or the federal government, between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it impractical
to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (F)   Outdoor school and playground activities. Reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are
conducted in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally
used, including but not limited to, school athletic and school entertainment
events.
   (G)   Other outdoor events. Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and
sporting events, and other similar outdoor events, provided that a permit has
been obtained from the appropriate permitting authority.
   (H)   Land use zoning regulations commercial amusement is intended for
public and private organizational amusement, cultural or recreation use;
typically included; civic centers, fairgrounds, rodeo arenas, golf courses,
athletic fields or complexes, festivals and similar exhibitions.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The following individuals shall enforce this chapter: The City
Administrator's or Police Chief will have primary responsibility for the
enforcement of the noise regulations contained in this chapter. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the City Administrator's or City Administrator's designee
from obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice or education.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
§ 100.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction which is punishable by a fine not to exceed the maximum fine set by
the city's minimum fine schedule.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 548, passed 11-14-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
Licensing and Regulating Solicitors
   
110.001   Definitions
   
110.002   License required
   
110.003   License application
   
110.004   License fee
   
110.005   Issuance of license
   
110.006   Revocation
   
110.007   Hearing on appeal
   
110.008   Re-application
   
110.009   Display
Licensing of Pinball Machines, Music Machines
and Other Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
110.025   License required
   
110.026   Fees
   
110.027   Payment date; duration of licenses
License or Occupational Tax Upon Certain Businesses
   
110.040   Exercise of revenue license power
   
110.041   Definitions
   
110.042   Occupation license required
   
110.043   License tax year
   
110.044   Occupations subject to tax amount
   
110.045   Exceptions and deductions
   
110.046   Application or return of license
   
110.047   Monthly and annual payment of tax
   
110.048   Tax based on current year; commencement of business during tax year
   
110.049   Monthly payments; license prerequisite
   
110.050   Sale or transfer of business
   
110.051   Taxpayer to keep books and records; returns confidential
   
110.052   Recorder to investigate returns
   
110.053   Over or under payment of tax
   
110.054   Remedy for nonpayment of tax
   
110.055   Appeals to City Council
   
110.056   Recorder to make rules
   
110.057   Licenses; posting; unlawful use of
   
110.058   Sales; returns and the like
License Fee Schedule
   
110.075   License fee required
   
110.076   License required before operation
   
110.077   License payable to City Recorder
   
110.078   Multiple trade and business at same location
 
   
110.999   Penalty
LICENSING AND REGULATING SOLICITORS
§ 110.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Union, Oregon.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SOLICITOR. Any person, whether an owner, agent, consignee or employee:
      (1)   Who engages in the temporary business in this city of selling,
offering and/or delivering goods, wares or services, by going from house to
house;
      (2)   Who conducts meetings open to the general public where goods,
wares, services or franchises, distributorship, contracts or business
opportunities are offered for sale;
      (3)   Who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers for
sale goods, wares, services, franchises or distributorship, from an automobile,
truck, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance; or
      (4)   SOLICITOR does not include the following:
         (a)   A resident in this city at least 30 days who regularly engages
in the business of selling, offering and/or delivering goods, wares or services
by going from house to house;
         (b)   A regular commercial traveler employed by a wholesale house and
selling goods, wares, merchandise or services to merchants of this city for the
purpose of resale;
         (c)   A representative of a public utility;
         (d)   A person soliciting money, donations of property or financial
assistance of any kind, or selling or distributing any items of literature or
merchandise for a fee upon the streets, in office buildings, by house to house
canvas or in public places for a charitable, religious, patriotic or
philanthropic purpose;
         (e)    Bona fide auctions conducted pursuant to law;
         (f)   Sales required by statute or by order of any Court;
         (g)   Rummage sales consisting of the sale of contributed
miscellaneous articles, used or new, to raise money for charitable, religious,
patriotic or philanthropic purposes; and
         (h)   Garage and yard sales consisting of sale from garage, yard or
dwelling by persons residing in the city and not generally engaged in the
business of retail sales and where the items being sold consist of household
goods and personal articles owned and used by the sellers. The sale shall not
be more than four days in length and no person shall conduct such a sale more
than four times in any calendar year.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License to do business. It shall be unlawful for any person or any
agent, servant or employee of any person to engage in, carry on or conduct the
business of a solicitor without first obtaining a license.
   (B)   Blanket license for charitable purposes. A charitable, religious,
patriotic or philanthropic organization may apply for and be issued a blanket
license to cover a group of solicitors invited to participate in an event
organized by and operated for the benefit of the not-for-profit organization.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.003 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applications for licenses hereunder shall be made upon forms provided by
the Chief of Police and shall contain the information as the Chief deems
necessary to conduct appropriate background investigation. A license may be
denied or revoked if false information is supplied by the applicant, or if the
applicant has been arrested or convicted of any felony or a misdemeanor theft
within the previous five years.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 110.004 LICENSE FEE.
   Every application shall be accompanied by a license fee, as established by
resolution of the City Council, to cover the cost of administration of the
licensing program. The fee will not be refunded if a license is not issued.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 110.005 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Within ten working days of the receipt of the license application, the City
Administrator or designate shall either issue a license or notify the applicant
that the license statement does not comply with the requirements of §
110.003.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 110.006 REVOCATION.
   A license issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the City
Administrator or designate upon violation of this subchapter. Notice of
revocation shall be provided to the licensed person by mailing it certified
mail directed to the last known address of the person. The revocation is
effective upon posting in the mail. Any person aggrieved by a revocation may
appeal the decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal with
the City Recorder within ten days of the effective date of the revocation.
Appeal does not stay the revocation.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 110.007 HEARING ON APPEAL.
   Upon receipt of an appeal of revocation of license, the City Administrator
shall schedule an appeal hearing at the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting which is at least five days from the date of the appeal. The appellant
shall be advised of the time and place set for the hearing on the appeal by
letter mailed to appellant's last known address or notice may be delivered by a
police officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to the
date set for hearing. The City Council shall act upon the appeal no later than
the next regular Council meeting and its action shall be final.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 110.008 RE-APPLICATION.
   No licensee whose license has been revoked shall make further application
until a period of at least six months shall have elapsed since the last
previous revocation.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.009 DISPLAY.
   Any person issued a license hereunder shall display the license issued
hereunder upon demand.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-13-1992)
LICENSING OF PINBALL MACHINES, MUSIC MACHINES
AND OTHER COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 110.025 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or company to keep, maintain or operate
for profit any pinball machine, music machine or other coin-operated amusement
device within the City of Union without first obtaining a license from the city
for that purpose.
(Ord. 200-B, passed 1-5-1959) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.026 FEES.
   The fees payable by the owners of the amusement devices for the herein
provided license shall be as follows:
   (A)   Seventy-five dollars per annum for each music machine, $30 per annum
for each pinball machine and $30 per annum for each other coin-operated
amusement device; and
   (B)   Any person operating machines in more than one location within the
City of Union shall pay $50 per annum for a master license, in addition to the
fees listed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 200-B, passed 1-5-1959; Ord. 459, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 110.027 PAYMENT DATE; DURATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Every person or company required by this subchapter to obtain a
license shall pay to the City Recorder the sum of money required under the
schedule in §
110.026 on or before January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Providing, however, that any amusement device placed in operation
subsequent to the first day of any year shall be licensed for the balance of
the calendar year in which installed, and the required license fee shall be
payable at the time of installation of the machine and shall be pro-rated
according to the unexpired time of the license period.
(Ord. 200-B, passed 1-5-1959)
LICENSE OR OCCUPATIONAL TAX UPON CERTAIN BUSINESSES
§ 110.040 EXERCISE OF REVENUE LICENSE POWER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed an exercise of the power
of the City of Union to license for revenue.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS INCOME. The value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible
property or service and receipts, including all sums earned or charged, whether
received or not, by reason of the investment of capital in the business engaged
in, including rentals, royalties, fees or other emoluments, however designated,
excluding receipts or proceeds from the use or sale of real property or any
interest therein; and proceeds from the sale of notes, bonds, mortgages or
other evidence of indebtedness, or stocks and the like, and without any
deduction on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials
used, labor costs, interest or discount paid, or any expense whatsoever, and
without any deduction on account of losses.
   PERSON or PERSONS. Persons of either sex, firms, copartnerships,
corporations, public utility districts and other associations of natural
persons, whether acting by themselves or by servants, agents or employees.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. The year commencing January 1 and ending on
December 31 of the year, or, in lieu thereof, the taxpayer's fiscal year when
permission is obtained from the City Recorder to use the same as the tax
period.
   TAXPAYERS. Any person liable to the license fee or tax imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.042 OCCUPATION LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   After January 1, 1957, no person shall engage in or carry on any
business, occupation, pursuit or privilege for which a license fee or tax is
imposed by this subchapter without having first obtained, and being the holder
of, a valid and subsisting license so to do, to be known as an occupational
license.
   (B)   Any person engaging in or carrying on more than one business,
occupation, pursuit or privilege shall pay the license so imposed upon each of
the same.
   (C)   Any taxpayer who engages in or carries on any business subject to the
tax hereunder, without having his or her occupational license so to do, shall
be guilty of a violation of this subchapter for each day during which the
business is so engaged in or carried on, and any taxpayer who fails or refuses
to pay the license fee, tax or any part thereof on or before the due date shall
be operating without having his or her license so to do.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.043 LICENSE TAX YEAR.
   (A)   All "occupation licenses" shall be for the tax year for which issued
and shall expire at the end of the year.
   (B)   The "occupation license" and the fee or tax therefore hereby imposed
shall be for the year commencing January 1 and ending December 31 of the year.
Provided, however, that if the taxpayer in transacting his or her business
keeps the books reflecting the same for a fiscal year not based on the calendar
year, he or she may, with the assent of the City Recorder, obtain his or her
license for the period of his or her current fiscal year, which shall be deemed
his or her tax year, and pay the fee or tax computed on his or her gross income
made during his or her fiscal year (next preceding his or her tax year)
covering his or her accounting period as shown by the method of keeping the
books of the business.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.044 OCCUPATIONS SUBJECT TO TAX AMOUNT.
   There are hereby levied upon and shall be collected from the persons on
account of the business activities annual license fee or occupational taxes in
the amounts to be determined by the application of the rate against gross
income, as follows.
   (A)   Upon every person engaged in or carrying on the business of a
telegraph and/or telephone business, a fee or tax equal to 3% of the total
gross income from the business in the City of Union, Oregon, during the fiscal
year next preceding the tax year for which the license is required; provided,
however, that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than the sum of $500 per
tax year.
   (B)   Upon every person engaged in or carrying on the business of selling or
furnishing natural or manufactured gas, a fee or tax equal to 2% of the total
gross income from the business in the City of Union, Oregon, during his or her
fiscal year next preceding the tax year for which the license is required;
provided, however, that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than $200 per
tax year.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.045 EXCEPTIONS AND DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be excepted and deducted from the total gross income upon
which the license fee or tax is computed so much thereof as is derived from
transactions in interstate or foreign commerce; or from business done for the
government of the United States, its officers or agents and any amount paid by
the taxpayer to the United States, the State of Oregon or the City of Union,
Oregon, as excise taxes levied or imposed upon the sale or distribution of
property or service.
   (B)   There shall be excepted and deducted from the total gross income upon
which the license fee or tax is computed, all bad debts for services incurred,
rendered or charged for during the tax year, or for a preceding tax year if the
charge-off is made in the current tax year. Debts shall be deemed bad and
uncollectible when the same have been written off the books of the taxpayer. In
the event debts are subsequently collected, the income shall be reported in the
return for the tax year in which the debts are collected and at the rate
prevailing in the tax year when collected.
   (C)   There shall be excepted and deducted from the total gross income upon
which the license fee or tax is computed, all cash discounts allowed and
actually granted to customers of the taxpayer during the tax year.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as requiring a license
or the payment of a license fee or tax, or the doing of any act which would
constitute an unlawful burden or interference in violation of the constitution
or laws of the United States, or which would not be consistent with the
constitution or laws of the State of Oregon.
   (E)   Any person subject to the payment of a license fee or tax under the
provisions of any ordinance of the City of Union, Oregon, other than this, on
account of engaging in any activity for which he or she is liable to tax here
imposed by this subchapter on account of the activity, shall nevertheless, in
the manner herein provided for, apply for and procure an "occupational
license".
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.046 APPLICATION OR RETURN OF LICENSE.
   (A)   On or before the first day of each tax year, every taxpayer shall
apply to the City Recorder for an "occupational license" upon blanks or forms
of returns to be prepared and provided by him or her requesting the information
as may be necessary to enable him or her to arrive at the lawful amount of the
fee or tax. The taxpayer shall in a legible manner write in the blank or form
of return the information required, and shall sign the same, and by affidavit
at the foot thereof shall swear or affirm the information therein given is full
and true and that he or she knows the same to be so.
   (B)   Every application or return shall be accompanied by a remittance by
bank draft, certified check, cashier's check or money order, payable to the
City of Union, Oregon, in the amount of the tax or fee installment thereof
required by the provisions hereof.
   (C)   If the applicant be a partnership, the application or return must be
made by one of the partners; if a corporation, by one of the officers thereof;
if a foreign corporation, copartnership or nonresident individual, by the
resident agent or local manager of the corporation, copartnership or
individual.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.047 MONTHLY AND ANNUAL PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Where the amount of the license fee or tax is based upon gross income,
the taxpayer may pay his or her fee or tax in equal monthly installments during
the life of his or her license, each installment to be paid on or before the
tenth day of the month.
   (B)   In all other cases, the taxpayer shall pay his or her fee or tax
annually during the life of his or her license, on or before March 15 of each
year respectively.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.048 TAX BASED ON CURRENT YEAR; COMMENCEMENT OF BUSINESS DURING TAX YEAR.
   (A)   Where a business, occupation or pursuit subject to tax upon gross
income has not been carried on for the full calendar or fiscal year next
preceding the tax year for which license is required, the license fee or tax
shall be paid monthly in installments during the life of the license on or
before the tenth day of the month and shall be based on the gross income for
the month next preceding that in which the payment is due. In such cases, the
taxpayer shall make monthly returns similar to the annual returns provided for
herein on or before the tenth day of the month.
   (B)   In all other cases where a person commences during any tax year to
engage in any business, occupation, pursuit or privilege, he or she shall be
entitled to a license for the remainder of the tax year for the required fee,
apportioned in the ratio of the remainder to a full tax year.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.049 MONTHLY PAYMENTS; LICENSE PREREQUISITE.
   In any case where the taxpayer pays his or her license fee or tax monthly,
he or she shall nevertheless first procure his or her "occupational license" in
the manner herein required before commencing or continuing in business and
shall pay the minimum fee or tax therefore, which shall be credited against
future installments.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.050 SALE OR TRANSFER OF BUSINESS.
   Upon the sale or transfer during any tax year of a business on account of
which a fee or tax is hereby required, the purchaser or transferee shall, if
the fee or tax has not been paid in full for the year, be responsible for its
payment for that portion of the year during which he or she carries on the
business.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.051 TAXPAYER TO KEEP BOOKS AND RECORDS; RETURNS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each taxpayer taxed upon his or her gross
income to keep and enter in a proper book, set of books or records, an account
which shall accurately reflect the amount of his or her gross income, which
account shall always be open to the inspection of the City Recorder and/or his
or her duly authorized agent and from which the officer or agent may verify the
return made by the taxpayer.
   (B)   The applications, statements or returns made to the City Recorder
pursuant to this subchapter shall not be made public, nor shall they be subject
to the inspection of any person except the Mayor, the City Attorney, the City
Recorder or his or her authorized agent, and members of the City Council.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.052 RECORDER TO INVESTIGATE RETURNS.
   If any taxpayer fails to apply for license or make his or her return, or if
the City Recorder is dissatisfied as to the correctness of the statement made
in the application or return of any taxpayer, the officer or his or her
authorized agent may enter the premises of the taxpayer at any reasonable time
for the purpose of inspecting his or her books or records of account to
ascertain the amount of the fee or tax, or to determine the correctness of the
statements, as the case may be, and may examine any person under oath
administered by the officer or his or her agent, touching the matters inquired
into, or may fix a time and place for an investigation of correctness of the
return and may issue a subpoena to the taxpayer or any other person to attend
upon the investigation and there testify, under oath administered by the
officer or his or her agent, in regard to the matters inquired into; and may by
subpoena require him or her or any person to bring with him or her the books,
records and papers as may be necessary.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.053 OVER OR UNDER PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   If the City Recorder, upon investigation or upon checking returns,
finds that the fee or tax paid on any of them is more than the amount required
of the taxpayer, he or she shall refund the amount overpaid by a warrant upon
the General Fund.
   (B)   If the City Recorder finds that the fee or tax paid is less than
required, he or she shall send a statement to the taxpayer showing the balance
due, who shall within three days pay the amount shown thereon.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.054 REMEDY FOR NONPAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   If any taxpayer fails to apply for license, or make his or her return,
or to pay the fee or tax therefore or any part thereof within three days after
the same shall have become due, the City Recorder shall ascertain the amount of
the fee, tax or installment thereof due, and shall notify the taxpayer thereof,
who shall be liable therefore in any suit or action by the city for the
collection thereof.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall also notify the City Attorney in writing of
the name of the delinquent taxpayer and the amount due from him or her and the
officer shall, with the assistance of the City Recorder, collect the same by
any appropriate means, or by suit or action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956)
§ 110.055 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   Any taxpayer aggrieved by the amount of the fee or tax found by
the City Recorder to be required under the provisions of this subchapter may
appeal to the City Council from the finding by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Recorder within five days from the time the taxpayer was
given notice of the amount.
      (2)   The Recorder shall, as soon as practicable, fix a time and place
for the hearing of the appeal, which time shall not be more than ten days after
the filing of the notice of appeal; and he or she shall cause a notice of the
time and place thereof to be delivered or mailed to the appellant.
      (3)   At the hearing, the taxpayer shall be entitled to be heard and to
introduce evidence in his or her own behalf.
      (4)   The City Council shall thereupon ascertain the correct amount of
the fee or tax by resolution, and the City Recorder shall immediately notify
the appellant thereof; which amount, together with costs of the appeal, if
appellant is unsuccessful therein, must be paid within three days after the
notice is given.
   (B)   The Mayor of the City of Union, Oregon, may by subpoena require the
attendance thereat of any person, and may also require him or her to produce
any pertinent books and records. Any person served with the subpoena shall
appear at the time and place therein stated and produce the books and records
required, if any, and shall testify truthfully under oath administered by the
Mayor as to any matter required of him or her pertinent to the appeal; and it
shall be unlawful for him or her to fail or refuse so to do.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 RECORDER TO MAKE RULES.
   The City Recorder shall have the power, subject to the approval of the City
Council, and it shall be his or her duty, from time to time, to adopt, publish
and enforce rules and regulations not inconsistent with this subchapter, or
with law, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions hereof; and it shall
be unlawful to violate or fail to comply with any rule or regulation.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.057 LICENSES; POSTING; UNLAWFUL USE OF.
   (A)   All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be kept posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place in his or her
principal place of business in the city.
   (B)   No person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this
subchapter shall suffer or allow any other person chargeable with a separate
license to operate under or display his or her license, nor shall the other
person operate under or display the license.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.058 SALES; RETURNS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person liable to tax hereunder to fail or
refuse to make application or return for a license, or to pay the fee, tax or
installment thereof when due, or for any person to make any false or fraudulent
application or return or any false statement or representation in, or in
connection with, any application or return, or to aid or abet another in any
attempt to evade payment of the fee or tax or any part thereof, or for any
person to fail to appear and testify in response to a subpoena issued pursuant
thereto, or to testify falsely upon any investigation of the correctness of a
return, or upon the hearing of any appeal, or in any manner to hinder or delay
the city or any of its officers in carrying out the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 247, passed 12-3-1956) Penalty, see §
110.999
LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE
§ 110.075 LICENSE FEE REQUIRED.
   License fee required, occupations and professions hereinafter license fees
provided in this subchapter.
Billiard table, pool table, Pigeon hole
table, bowling alley and shooting       $75 per year
gallery
Card tables; first table                $7.50 per quarter or fraction thereof
Each additional table                   $3 per quarter of fraction thereof
                                        $300 minimum per week
Carnivals                               $1,000 maximum per week (at the
                                        discretion of the City Council)
Circuses and/or menageries; one ring    $25 per exhibition
Two or more rings                       $45 per exhibition
Skating rinks                           $10 per quarter or fraction thereof
Firecrackers (provided, however, that
no license shall be issued for
firecrackers except during the seven    $25
day period preceding July 4 of any
year)
Exhibition, shows and entertainment
(provided, however, that this shall not
include exhibitions, shows or           $5 daily
entertainments put on or sponsored by
school, church or other non-profit
organizations)
Each Poker, 21 or other card table      $250 per year or $50 for one to 60 days
Each 4-5-6 table                        $32.50 for one to 60 days
All quarterly licenses herein provided for shall expire on the last day of the
months of March, June, September and December.
Carnivals associated with Eastern Oregon Livestock Show are exempt from these
fees
 
(Ord. 229, passed 5-19-1941; Ord. 460, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 110.076 LICENSE REQUIRED BEFORE OPERATION.
   No person, persons, firm, company or corporation shall, within the corporate
limits of the City of Union, engage in or carry on any trade, business,
occupation, calling or profession for which a license is required by this
subchapter until they or it shall have obtained a license as provided in §
110.075.
(Ord. 229, passed 5-19-1941) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.077 LICENSE PAYABLE TO CITY RECORDER.
   Every person, firm, company or corporation inquired by this subchapter to
obtain a license shall pay to the City Recorder the sum of money required in
payment thereof and receive the license, setting forth the amount paid, the
nature of the business licensed, the time the license is to run, the place
where the business is to be conducted and the name and address of the licensee.
(Ord. 229, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 110.078 MULTIPLE TRADE AND BUSINESS AT SAME LOCATION.
   In every case where more than one of the trades, occupations, businesses or
professions for which a license is required shall be conducted or carried on in
the same place by the same person, persons, firm, company or corporation at the
same time, a license must be taken out for each of the pursuits according to
the rates severally prescribed herein.
(Ord. 229, passed 5-19-1941)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Licensing and regulating solicitors. In addition to revocation of a
license issued hereunder, any person who violates any provision of §§
110.001 through 110.090 shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $500. Each violation of §§
110.001 through
110.009 shall constitute a separate offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Licensing of pinball machines, music machines and other coin-operated
amusement devices.  Any person or company violating any of the provisions of §§
110.025 through
110.027 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $25.
   (D)   License fee schedule. Any person who shall pursue any occupation
herein enumerated without first taking out a license as herein provided, or
violating any of the provisions of §§
110.075 through
110.078 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$50, or by imprisonment for not less than two days nor more than 20 days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 229, passed 5-19-1941; Ord. 200-B, passed 1-5-1959; Ord. 434, passed 7-
13-1992)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Residential soliciting prohibited
Secondhand Dealers
   
111.20   Pawnbroker
   
111.21   Secondhand dealer
   
111.22   Licenses
   
111.23   Record of transactions
   
111.24   Identification of articles
   
111.25   Holding of property
   
111.26   Transactions with minors or intoxicated persons
   
111.27   Application of provisions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants
of the residences in the city shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
   (B)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 111.20 PAWNBROKER.
   As used herein, PAWNBROKER shall mean any person, persons, firm or
corporation engaged in keeping, conducting, managing or carrying on the
business of loaning money for himself or herself or another and taking or
receiving by way of pawn, pledge or exchange any goods, wares or merchandise,
or any kind of personal property, as security for the repayment of any money
loaned thereon.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
§ 111.21 SECONDHAND DEALER.
   As used herein, SECONDHAND DEALER shall mean any person, persons, firm or
corporation who conducts the business of buying, selling, exchanging or
otherwise dealing in secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of
personal property, or articles and things usually found in a secondhand store
and who holds himself or herself out to be and advertises himself or herself to
be a dealer in secondhand goods.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
§ 111.22 LICENSES.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall hereafter engage in the
business of a pawnbroker or a secondhand dealer in the City of Union, Oregon,
without first obtaining a permit or license, therefore, from the Common Council
of the City of Union, which the permit or license shall not be assignable and
may be revoked at any time by the Common Council for cause, after hearing.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer operating within the City of
Union shall keep a daily record of all articles received, pawned or pledged
with him or her, or purchased by him or her; which record shall set out the
date and the hour of the day when the article was received on deposit, pledged
or purchased, the number of the identification ticket, the amount loaned
thereon or the amount of the purchase price, a complete description sufficient
for identification of each article left on deposit, pledged or purchased, the
name and address of the person pawning, pledging, selling or delivering the
article, goods or merchandise and the name of the person receiving or accepting
the goods or merchandise so pawned, pledged or purchased.
   (B)   The record shall be kept in a record book for that purpose, and the
entries therein shall be legibly written in ink or typewriter, in the English
language; and no entry therein shall be altered, changed, erased or defaced;
and the record, as well as the articles of merchandise or goods so pawned,
pledged, purchased or received shall at all reasonable times be open for
inspection by any police officer of the City of Union, the state police or any
member of the sheriff's office of the County of Union, Oregon.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
§ 111.24 IDENTIFICATION OF ARTICLES.
   Any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receiving any article in pledge,
purchase or otherwise, shall affix to the article a tag, upon which tag shall
be written or printed in legible characters a number, which number shall
correspond to the identification number of the article in the record required
to be kept.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
§ 111.25 HOLDING OF PROPERTY.
   No personal property received by or pledged to any pawnbroker, and no
personal property received by or purchased by any secondhand dealer, shall be
sold or disposed of or removed from the place of business of the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer for the space of five days from and after the date the same
was pawned or received in pledge, or purchased or received by the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer; provided, that at any time any police officer mentioned
herein shall serve written notice upon any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer not
to sell or remove any article so received by or pledged with him or her or
purchased by him or her, or permit the same to be redeemed, the property shall
not be sold, or permitted to be redeemed, or removed from the premises until
the time as may be determined by the police officer, not exceeding ten days
from the date of the service of the notice.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 TRANSACTIONS WITH MINORS OR INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall buy, receive in exchange or receive
in pledge, any article or thing whatever from any person under the age of 18
years, or any person while under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the purchase or sale of
new goods purchased from manufacturers, wholesale dealers or persons having an
established place of business.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
111.20 through
111.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than
$5, or more than $100.
(Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1939)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Regulating Billiard, Pool, Cardrooms, Bowling Alleys,
Shooting Galleries, Taverns and the Like
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License not transferable
   
112.04   Minors
   
112.05   Hours of operation
   
112.06   Obstruction of view
   
112.07   Gambling
   
112.08   Forfeiture of license
   
112.09   Issuance of license
Youth Centers
   
112.25   License required
   
112.26   Definitions
   
112.27   Application
   
112.28   Investigation and issuance
   
112.29   Service of process
   
112.30   Exhibition of license
   
112.31   License fee
   
112.32   Term of license
   
112.33   Transfer
   
112.34   Duty of police to enforce
   
112.35   Revocation of license
   
112.36   Appeal
   
112.37   Expiration of license
   
112.38   Application to existing operation
REGULATING BILLIARD, POOL, CARDROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS,
SHOOTING GALLERIES, TAVERNS AND THE LIKE
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate any billiard,
pool or cardroom, bowling alley, shooting gallery or tavern within the City of
Union without first making a written application and obtaining a license from
the city therefore. Any person desiring to obtain a billiard, pool or cardroom,
bowling alley, shooting gallery or tavern license shall make written
application directed to the Common Council and file the same with the City
Recorder, which application shall be signed by the applicant and shall
definitely describe the premises wherein the business is proposed to be
conducted. The applicant shall likewise state the kind of business, if any, to
be connected with any the billiard, pool, or cardroom and shall state the names
of all persons interested in the ownership of the billiard, pool, cardroom or
tavern. Any person now owning or operating any billiard, pool or cardroom,
tavern, bowling alley or shooting gallery under license of the City of Union
shall not be required to file the written application herein provided for until
the expiration of the license now in force.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   A BILLIARD, POOL or CARDROOM shall be taken to mean any place where one or
more tables, either billiard, pool or cards, are maintained, whether or not a
charge is made for the use of the table or tables, except private clubs and
homes where the general public is not permitted the use of the tables.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968)
§ 112.03 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Any change made either in the ownership or location of any billiard, pool or
cardroom, bowling alley, shooting gallery or tavern without the consent of the
Common Council after the license, therefore, shall have been granted shall
render the license void and of no effect.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968)
§ 112.04 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of any billiard,
pool, cardroom or tavern to permit, suffer or allow any minor to go into, visit
or to remain in any room; and he or she shall have and keep posted at the
entrance to any room a sign reading, "No minors allowed". It shall be unlawful
for any minor to go into, or be or remain in or about any billiard, pool,
cardroom or tavern.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All billiard, pool and cardrooms, bowling alleys, shooting galleries and
taverns shall be and remain closed each day of the week between 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968)
§ 112.06 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain in any billiard, pool, cardroom,
bowling alley, shooting gallery or tavern any screen or other obstruction which
prevents a full view of the room from the entrance thereto. It shall also be
unlawful to maintain any frosted window or any opaque curtain or screen for the
purpose of obstructing a view of the interior of the room from the street.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or in charge of any
billiard, pool or cardroom, bowling alley, shooting gallery or tavern to permit
or allow any gambling of any kind therein. Gambling shall not include social
games. SOCIAL GAMES shall be defined as a game, other than a lottery, between
players in a private business, private club or place of public accommodation
where no house player, house bank or house odds exist and there is no house
income from the operation of the social game.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968; Ord. 349, passed 5-29-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 FORFEITURE OF LICENSE.
   A conviction in the Municipal Court of the City of Union of the owner,
operator or person in charge of any billiard, pool or cardroom, bowling alley,
shooting gallery or tavern for any violation of the provisions of this
subchapter shall work on immediate forfeiture of the license held by the owner.
Thereafter, the owner, operator or person in charge shall not maintain or
operate the place unless and until the consent of the Common Council is
obtained and a renewal of the license granted.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968)
§ 112.09 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   License for billiard, pool or cardrooms, bowling alleys, shooting galleries
or taverns shall be issued at the time and in the manner for issuing general
occupational licenses, except as herein otherwise expressly provided therefore.
No business or trade shall be carried on in any place until the license fee
shall have been paid.
(Ord. 272, passed 4-8-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
YOUTH CENTERS
§ 112.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be engaged in the operation of any
youth recreational or entertainment center, as defined in §
111.26, without first obtaining a license therefore in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENGAGED IN THE OPERATION. Of such a business or enterprise is defined as
owning, leasing, operating, supervising or having any financial interest in the
business or enterprise, whether as an owner, lessee, licensee, agent, employee
or contractor. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved
from complying with the provisions of this subchapter merely by reason of
association temporarily with any established local business or by conducting
the business or enterprise in the name of any person having no real interest
therein.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation.
   YOUTH RECREATIONAL or ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any business or enterprise
offering entertainment or recreation of every kind, nature or description, or
facilities for the same including, but not restricted to, dancing, pool
playing, juke boxes, food and beverages, and whose patronage consists
substantially of persons under the age of 21 years. It is immaterial whether or
not the entertainment or recreation or facilities for the same are made
available to patrons on a fee, admission charge or dues basis, or whether no
charge of any kind shall be made on the patrons.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.27 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license under this subchapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant (if
an individual), by all partners (if a partnership) and by the president (if a
corporation) with the City Recorder showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the persons having the management or supervision
of applicant's business, the address of the person or persons, the capacity in
which the person or persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or
otherwise);
   (B)   The fingerprints of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business or, in lieu thereof, at least three letters
of recommendation from reliable property owners in the County of Union, Oregon,
certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or
other evidence which establishes to the satisfaction of the Council of the City
of Union, the good character and business responsibility of the person or
persons;
   (C)   A brief statement of the nature, character and quality of the
facilities, services and entertainment to be offered by the applicant;
   (D)   Whether or not the person or persons engaging in the operation of the
business or enterprise have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the
violation of any ordinance of the City of Union, the nature of the offense and
the punishment assessed therefore; and
   (E)   The other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons engaged in the business or enterprise as the City Council
may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this subchapter in the protection of
the public good.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.28 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the application, the Chief of Police shall cause such an
investigation of the person or persons business responsibility or moral
character to be made as he or she deems necessary to the protection of the
public good. If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall
be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation of the applicant appear to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall so certify in writing and a license shall be issued by the City Recorder.
The license shall contain the number of the license, the date issued, the
nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the license
fee, the expiration date of the license and the name or names of the persons
authorized to carry on the same.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.29 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in the
herein-described business or enterprise, the applicant shall file with the City
Recorder an instrument nominating and appointing any Union County, Oregon,
resident and freeholder as his or her true and lawful agent with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the
applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business or enterprise transacted under the license, which the instrument shall
also contain a recital to the effect that the applicant for the license
consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon the
agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be valid as if personally
served upon the person or persons applying for the license under this
subchapter, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of the
acknowledgment of service or manner of service.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.30 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   The license issued under this subchapter shall be posted conspicuously in
the place of the business named therein.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.31 LICENSE FEE.
   The licensee under this subchapter shall pay a fee of $25 per term of
license.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.32 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of license so granted shall be six months from the date of
issuance.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.33 TRANSFER.
   No license shall be transferred without the written consent of the Mayor as
evidenced by endorsement on the face of the license showing to whom the license
is transferred and the date of the transfer.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.34 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the City of Union to examine
all places of business subject to the provisions of this subchapter, to
determine if this subchapter has been complied with and to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter against any person found to be violating the
same.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.35 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license issued pursuant to this subchapter may be revoked by the
Council of the City of Union, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Conducting the business or enterprise licensed hereunder in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public;
and
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the ground of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.36 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Council in regard to the
denial of application for license as provided for in §
112.28, or in connection with the revocation of a license as provided for in §
112.35, shall have the right to appeal to the Council of the City of Union.
   (B)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council within 14 days
after notice of the decision by the Council of revocation has been mailed to
the persons last known address, or after notice of denial of application, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   The Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal,
and notice of the hearing shall be given to the person in the same manner as
provided for in §
112.35 for notice of hearing upon revocation.
   (D)   The order of the Council on appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.37 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire at
midnight of the last day of the term for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
§ 112.38 APPLICATION TO EXISTING OPERATION.
   In the event that any business or enterprise as defined herein shall be in
operation at the time this subchapter shall become effective, the business or
enterprise shall come within the provisions of this subchapter. However, the
persons engaging in the business shall have ten days from the effective date of
this subchapter within which to comply with the provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-10-1966)
CHAPTER 113: TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Tax imposed
   
113.04   Collection
   
113.05   Short term rental hosting platform fees
   
113.06   Exemptions
   
113.07   Registry
   
113.08   Remittances and returns
   
113.09   Penalties and interest
   
113.10   Deficiencies, fraud, refusal to collect, evasion
   
113.11   Redetermination
   
113.12   Collections
   
113.13   Liens
   
113.14   Refunds
   
113.15   Administration
   
113.16   Notice
   
113.17   Appeals
   
113.18   Intergovernmental agreement
 
   
113.99   Violations and penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter is to impose a tax upon the transient lodging
by any occupant in the city of Union, Oregon.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter.
   BOOKING SERVICE. Any reservation and/or payment service provided by a person
or entity that facilitates a short term rental transaction between a host and a
prospective occupant, and for which the person or entity collects or receives,
directly or indirectly through an agent or intermediary, a fee in connection
with the reservation and/or payment services provided for the short term rental
transaction. Booking services include directly or indirectly accepting,
receiving or facilitating payment, whether or not the person or entity is the
ultimate recipient of the payment, including through Application Programming
Interfaces (APIs) or other computerized devices where third party providers
receive information about a transaction and collect funds for the transient
lodging occupancy from an occupant.
   HOST. The owner or person who resides at a short term rental or has been
designated by the owner or resident of the short term rental and who rents out
the short term rental for transient lodging occupancy either directly or
through the use of a hosting platform.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A person or entity that participates in the short term
rental business by collecting or receiving a fee for booking services through
which a host may offer a transient lodging facility. Hosting platforms usually,
though not necessarily, provide booking services through an online platform
that allows a host to advertise the transient lodging through a website
provided by the hosting platform and provides a means for the hosting platform
to conduct a transaction by which prospective occupants arrange transient
lodging and payment, whether occupant pays rent directly to the host or to the
hosting platform.
   LOCAL TAX TRUSTEE. The operator or hosting platform or designee thereof that
accepts, receives or facilitates the payment directly from the occupant,
whether or not the operator or hosting platform is the ultimate recipient of
the payment.
   OCCUPANCY. The right to the use or possession of any space in transient
lodging for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes for less than 30 days.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
in transient lodging for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days.
   OPERATOR. Means:
      (1)   Any person who provides transient lodging for occupancy to the
general public for compensation. Furnishing accommodations can be done via
employees, contractors, agents or any other person allowed to process
reservations and accept payment for the transient lodging on behalf of the
transient lodging provider;
      (2)   Any person that facilitates the reservations of an accommodation
and collects the payment for the transient lodging reservation from the
occupant; or
      (3)   Any transient lodging provider, transient lodging intermediary or
transient lodging tax collector as defined in O.R.S. 320.300.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation, limited liability partnership, association, host, social
club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration paid or payable by an occupant for the occupancy of
space in transient lodging valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or
other consideration. If a separate fee is charged for services, goods or
commodities and the fee is optional, that fee is not included in rent.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A house, duplex, multi-plex, apartment, condominium,
houseboat, trailer or other residential dwelling unit where a person rents
guest bedrooms or the entire residential dwelling unit for transient lodging
occupancy.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator/Recorder, or their designee, which
may include the Oregon Department of Revenue. If the city utilizes the Oregon
Department of Revenue as its Tax Administrator, it will comply with O.R.S.
305.620 in that it will follow the rules adopted by the Department of Revenue
regarding the administration, collection, enforcement, and distribution of
transient lodging taxes.
   TRANSIENT LODGING or TRANSIENT LODGING FACILITIES. Means:
      (1)   Hotel, motel and inn dwelling units that are used for temporary
overnight human occupancy;
      (2)   Spaces used for overnight parking of recreational vehicles or
placement of tents during periods of human occupancy; or
      (3)   Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartment units or other dwelling
units, or portions of any of these dwelling units that are used for temporary
human occupancy.
   TLT or TAX. The transient lodging tax.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 566, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 113.03 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the privilege of occupancy in any transient lodging or transient
lodging facility, each occupant shall pay a tax in the amount of 5% of the
rent. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the occupant to the city, which is
extinguished only by payment to the transient lodging provider at the time the
rent is paid.
   (B)   Tax amounts shall be rounded down to the nearest cent.
   (C)   The transient lodging provider shall enter the tax on the provider's
records when the rent is collected. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the transient
lodging provider with each installment.
   (D)   Bills, receipts or invoices provided to occupants shall list the
city's TLT separately and must accurately state the amount of the tax. All
amounts listed as TLT on invoices, bills or receipts must be reported as TLT
and, after collection, must be turned over to the city, less the 5%
administrative charge.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Every local tax trustee shall collect the TLT at the time rent is paid
unless an exemption applies. If payment is by credit card, for purposes of this
section, payment is made at the time the credit card information is provided to
the local tax trustee, not when the local tax trustee ultimately receives
credit for the transaction. While holding the payment in trust for the city, a
local tax trustee may commingle the tax proceeds with the local tax trustee's
funds, but the local tax trustee is not the owner of tax proceeds, except that,
when a return is filed, the local tax trustee becomes the owner of the
administrative fee authorized to be retained. Local tax trustees may choose to
file returns and remit payment based on amounts accrued but not yet collected.
The local tax trustee is liable for any TLT that should have been collected
from the occupant, except in cases of nonpayment of rent by the occupant.
   (B)   Upon request of the city, local tax trustees must provide all physical
addresses of transient lodging facilities within the city limits and the
related contact information, including the name and mailing address, of the
general manager, agent, owner, host or other responsible person for the
location.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.05 SHORT TERM RENTAL HOUSING PLATFORM FEES.
   A hosting platform for short term rentals may collect a fee for booking
services in connection with short term rentals only when those short term
rentals are lawfully registered as operators with the city and possess a
certificate of authority at the time the short term rental is occupied.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax imposed by this chapter shall be imposed upon dwelling units
described in O.R.S. 320.308.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.07 REGISTRY.
   (A)   Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator
shall provide a completed registration form to the Tax Administrator within 30
calendar days after commencing business. The registration form shall require
the operator to provide the name of the business, any separate business
address, and other information as the Tax Administrator may require to
implement this chapter. Operators who own or operate transient lodging
facilities in the City of Union shall provide the address of the lodging
facility. The registration form shall be signed by the operator. The Tax
Administrator shall, within 15 business days after registration, issue, without
charge, a certificate of authority to collect the TLT.
   (B)   The obligation to collect the TLT is imposed once rent for transient
lodging is paid, even if the registration form has not been filed or if the
certificate has not been issued. If rent transaction is facilitated online, the
certificate of authority must be able to be viewed by the occupant by clicking
on the link to the certificate of authority at a reasonable place during the
payment transaction.
   (C)   Certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable, and shall be
surrendered to the Tax Administrator when the business is sold or transferred
or when a lodging facility ceases to operate at the location specified in the
registration form. Each certificate issued to an operator for a specific
lodging facility shall be prominently displayed at the lodging facility and
include:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the transient lodging facility;
      (3)   The date the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The certificate number as assigned by the Tax Administrator.
   (D)   A certificate does not constitute a permit.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 REMITTANCES AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Local tax trustees shall submit a completed tax return form to the Tax
Administrator for each calendar month by the fifteenth of the following month,
accompanied by remittance of all tax collected, less a 5% administration fee.
If the estimated monthly amount of average tax due is $100 or less, the local
tax trustee has the option of filing the return and remitting the tax on a
quarterly basis on the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter (April 15, July 15, October 15, and January 15). Local tax
trustees shall also submit any tax that was due but not collected if the rent
on which the tax is based was paid.
   (B)   The local tax trustee is entitled to the administration fee. If a
transient lodging facility has multiple operators they are not entitled to
retain additional fees.
   (C)   Remittances are delinquent if not made by the 15th day of the month in
which they are due.
   (D)   Returns shall show the gross rents collected, taxable rents, the total
amount of TLT collected and the amount of the administrative fee retained by
the local tax trustee. Returns shall also show the exempt and excluded rents
and the basis for exemptions and exclusions.
   (E)   Tax returns and remittances may be submitted in person or by mail. If
the return and remittance is mailed the postmark shall be considered the date
of delivery.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may extend the time for making any return or
remittance of the tax by up to 30 calendar days. No further extension shall be
granted, except by the City Council. Any local tax trustee to whom an extension
is granted shall pay interest at the rate of 3% per month on the amount of the
remittance due without proration for a fraction of a month. If a return is not
filed, and the remittance and interest due is not paid by the end of the
extension granted, then the interest shall become a part of the room tax for
computation of penalties.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same rate
established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month, from
the time the return to the Tax Administrator was originally required to be
filed to the time of payment.
   (B)   If a transient lodging tax collector fails to file a return or pay the
tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed in the same manner and amount
provided under O.R.S. 314.400.
   (C)   Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a part
of the financial obligation required to be paid and remitted to the Tax
Administrator.
   (D)   Taxes, interest, and penalties paid to the Tax Administrator under
this section shall be distributed to the city’s General Fund, earmarked for
economic development and tourism.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 566, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 113.10 DEFICIENCIES, FRAUD, REFUSAL TO COLLECT, EVASION.
   (A)   Deficiency determination. The Tax Administrator may review tax returns
and adjust the amount due based on the information in the return, on
information obtained during a review or audit of records, or on the basis of
other evidence. In the event of a deficiency, the Tax Administrator shall
provide notice of the deficiency to the transient lodging tax collector, who
shall remit deficiencies within ten business days of the deficiency notice.
Notice may be by personal delivery or certified or registered mail.
      (1)   In reviewing and adjusting tax returns, the Tax Administrator shall
offset any amount received in excess of the remittances due against any
shortages in remittances.
      (2)   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the TLT, notice of
deficiency determinations shall be issued within three years of the period for
which the deficiency determination is made.
      (3)   The time to remit deficient payment amounts under this section
shall be extended if the local tax trustee timely requests a redetermination.
   (B)   Fraud; refusal to collect; evasion. If any transient lodging tax
collector fails to collect, report or remit the tax as required, submits a
fraudulent return, or otherwise violates or attempts to violate this chapter,
the Tax Administrator shall estimate the tax due, and calculate the amount
owing from the transient lodging tax collector for tax remittance, interest and
penalties and provide notice to the transient lodging tax collector of the
assessment. The determination and notice shall be made and mailed within three
years of the discovery by the Tax Administrator of the violation. The
determination is due and payable upon receipt of notice and shall become final
ten business days after the date notice was delivered if no petition for
redetermination is filed.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 REDETERMINATION.
   (A)   Any person affected by a deficiency determination may file a petition
for redetermination with the Tax Administrator within ten business days of
service of notice of the tax deficiency. A determination becomes final if a
petition for redetermination is not timely filed.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the allowable
period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination and grant an
oral hearing if requested. The petitioner shall be allowed at least 20 business
days to prepare for the hearing.
   (C)   After considering the petition and all available information, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a redetermination decision and mail the decision to
the petitioner. During the redetermination process, the Tax Administrator may
agree to a compromise of the amount due if there is a good faith dispute over
the amount owing.
   (D)   The decision of the Tax Administrator on redetermination becomes final
and payment is due ten business days after the decision is mailed unless the
petitioner files an appeal to the City Council within that time. The appeal
shall be filed with the Tax Administrator. The City Council's decision shall be
final when reduced to writing and mailed to the petitioner and all amounts due
must be paid within ten business days of mailing of the City Council decision.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.12 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The city may bring legal action to collect on any amounts owed to the
city under this chapter within three years after remittance is due to the city
or within three years after any determination becomes final.
   (B)   The city is entitled to collect reasonable attorneys' fee in any legal
action brought to collect on amount owed to the city under this chapter.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.13 LIENS.
   The city may record a lien in the city's lien docket against any real
property owned by a transient lodging provider who receives any portion of the
rent from a transient lodging facility located within the city as to any
delinquent remittances by the transient lodging provider.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.14 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds by city to transient lodging tax collector. If the transient
lodging tax collector remits more tax, penalty or interest than is due, the
transient lodging tax collector may file a claim in writing stating the facts
relating to the claim, within three years from the date of remittance. If the
claim is approved by the Tax Administrator, the excess amount shall be either
refunded or credited on any amount due from the transient lodging tax
collector.
   (B)   Refunds by city to occupant. A transient lodging tax collector may
file a claim for refund by filing a claim in writing within three years of
payment providing the facts relating to the claim for refund. If the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax was collected and remitted to the city
and the occupant was not required to pay the tax or overpaid, the city shall
issue a refund to the occupant.
   (C)   Refunds by transient lodging tax collector to occupant. If an occupant
has paid tax to a transient lodging tax collector but stays a total of 30 or
more consecutive days in the same transient lodging facility, the transient
lodging tax collector shall refund to the occupant any tax collected for any
portion of the continuous stay. The transient lodging tax collector shall
account for the collection and refund to the Tax Administrator. If the
transient lodging tax collector has remitted the tax prior to the refund or
credit to the occupant, the transient lodging tax collector shall be entitled
to a corresponding refund or offset if the claim for refund is filed within
three years from the date of collection.
   (B)   Burden of proof. The person claiming the refund shall have the burden
of proving the facts that establish the basis for the refund.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Use of TLT funds. Seventy percent of the revenue from the tax rate of
5% shall be used for tourism promotion and tourism-related facilities. Thirty
percent of the revenue of the 5% shall be used for city services.
   (B)   Records required from local tax trustee. Every local tax trustee shall
keep records of each transaction involving rent and/or collection of TLT. All
records shall be retained for at least three years and six months.
   (C)   Examination of records; investigations. The Tax Administrator or agent
may examine all records of a local tax trustee relating to receipt of rent and
TLT and remittance of tax during normal business hours and may obtain copies of
the records to audit returns.
   (D)   Authority of Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall have the
power to enforce this chapter, conduct audits, and to adopt rules, regulations
and forms consistent with this chapter. Rules and regulations of general
application shall be mailed to all registered transient lodging providers. The
Tax Administrator may also issue written interpretations on request of a
transient lodging tax collector. As to the transient lodging tax collector to
whom the interpretation is issued, the city will act consistently with the
interpretation until it is withdrawn, and the city shall provide 30 days'
written notice of withdrawal of an interpretation.
   (E)   Confidential character of information obtained; disclosure unlawful.
The city shall maintain the confidentiality of information provided by a
transient lodging tax collector. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to prevent:
      (1)   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another city official, employee or agent for collection of taxes for the
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this chapter or
collecting city business license fees.
      (2)   Disclosure of information to the transient lodging tax collector
and the transient lodging tax collector's agents.
      (3)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom
certificates of authority have been issued.
      (4)   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the city.
      (5)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 192.
      (6)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 297.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.16 NOTICE.
   In case of service by mail of any notice required by this chapter, the
service is complete three days after deposit with the United States Post
Office.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.17 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal to
the City Council by filing a written appeal with the Tax Administrator within
ten business days of the serving or mailing of the decision being appealed. Any
person may appeal the issuance of a rule or regulation issued by the Tax
Administrator to the City Council by filing a written appeal within ten
business days of the mailing of the notice of the regulation.
   (A)   The City Administrator/Recorder shall schedule the hearing on a City
Council agenda and provide the appellant notice of the hearing at least ten
business days before the hearing.
   (B)   The City Council may agree to a compromise of the amount of tax
remittance if there is a good faith dispute over the amount owing.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.18 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
   The City Council may enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
Oregon Department of Revenue whereby the Department of Revenue is responsible
for the administration, collection, distribution, or enforcement of the tax
authorized under this chapter, either in full or in part. The terms of that
agreement shall apply in lieu of and shall supersede conflicting provisions of
this chapter but shall not be construed as repealing any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 113.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   A person who violates a provision of this chapter commits a Class A civil
infraction. Each transient lodging transaction for which tax, penalty or
interest otherwise due is not paid shall be deemed a separate civil infraction.
Each day a person fails to register as a transient lodging tax collector shall
be deemed a separate civil infraction.
(Ord. 565, passed 3-14-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
131.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Ban on psilocybin
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Minors on streets at night during times when schools are in session.
It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be or to remain
upon any street, alley or other public place in the City of Union after 10:00
p.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights
during the months of September through May, unless the person is accompanied by
a parent, guardian or other person having custody of the minor, or unless in
the performance of duty directed by the parent, guardian or other person having
custody, or unless the person is in lawful employment making it necessary to be
in places after 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Minors on streets at night during summer vacation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be or
remain upon any street, alley or other public place in the city (subject to the
limitations of division (B)(2) below) after 11:00 p.m. during the months of
June, July and August, unless the person is accompanied by a parent, guardian
or other person having custody of the minor, or unless in the performance of
duty directed by the parent, guardian or other person having custody, or unless
the person is in lawful employment making it necessary to be in places after
11:00 p.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be or
remain in the city park after 9:00 p.m. during the months of June, July and
August, unless the person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person
having custody of the minor, or unless in the performance of duty directed by
the parent, guardian, other person having custody, or unless the person is in
lawful employment making it necessary to be in places after 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   Permitting minors to violate curfew. It shall be unlawful for anyone
having the legal care and custody of any person, as described above, to allow
or permit the person to go or be upon any public street, alley or other public
place in the City of Union during restricted hours as set forth in divisions
(A) and (B) above, except in case of emergency.
   (D)   Detaining minors. Every member of the City of Union police force,
while on duty, is hereby authorized to detain any minor wilfully violating the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above until the parent or guardian of the
child shall take him or her into custody, but the officer shall immediately,
upon taking custody of the child, communicate with the parent or guardian.
   (E)   Delinquent minors. If it shall appear that any child taken into
custody for violation of the first and second sections of this section is
incorrigible, beyond parental control or has no home, proper proceedings shall
be taken to have the child placed in the care of the State of Oregon as
provided by statute.
   (F)   Responsibility of parent, guardian or other adult having care and
control of minor. It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to
knowingly permit the minor to be or remain upon any street, alley or other
public place in the City of Union as described in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (G)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 311, passed 5-3-1976; Ord. 495, passed 7-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 BAN ON PSILOCYBIN.
   The establishment of psilocybin product manufacturers licensed under O.R.S.
275A.290 and psilocybin service centers licensed under O.R.S. 475A.305 is
prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 568, passed 8-8-2022)
CHAPTER 131: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
131.001   Oregon Criminal Code adopted
   
131.002   Consolidated offenses
   
131.003   Soliciting or confederating to violate ordinances
   
131.004   Attempt to commit offenses
   
131.005   Separate violations
   
131.006   Nuisance abatement
Disorderly Conduct and Related Offenses
   
131.015   Assault
   
131.016   Menacing
   
131.017   Recklessly endangering another person
   
131.018   Disorderly conduct
   
131.019   Disorderly conduct at fires
   
131.020   Drinking in public places
   
131.021   Loitering
   
131.022   Harassment
   
131.023   Abuse of venerated objects
   
131.024   Unnecessary noise
   
131.025   Prowling
   
131.026   Graffiti
   
131.027   Park and transfer station violations
   
131.028   Concealed weapons
   
131.029   Discharge of firearms
   
131.030   Display of a weapon
   
131.031   Fireworks
Offenses Relating to Property
   
131.045   Theft
   
131.046   Trespass
   
131.047   Violating privacy for another
   
131.048   Mischief
Sexual and Related Offenses
   
131.065   Accosting for deviate purposes
   
131.066   Public indecency
Minors
   
131.080   Child neglect
   
131.081   Misrepresentation of age by minor
   
131.082   Medicine samples; delivery to minors
   
131.083   Purchase of property from minors
   
131.084   Minors in possession of alcoholic liquor
   
131.085   Delivering or selling liquor by minor
Animals
   
131.100   Cruelty to animals
   
131.101   Poisoning of animals
   
131.102   Vehicles injuring animals
   
131.103   Removal of carcasses
   
131.104   Feeding of deer, raccoon, wild turkeys, and potentially habituated
wildlife prohibited
Obstructing Governmental Administration
   
131.120   Unsworn falsification
   
131.121   Obstructing governmental administration
   
131.122   Tampering with public records
   
131.123   Impersonation
   
131.124   False reports
   
131.125   Refusing to assist in fire-fighting operations
   
131.126   Resisting or refusing to aid officer
   
131.127   Escape
   
131.128   Police and fire communications
   
131.129   Deliveries to prisoners
Street and Sidewalk Offenses
   
131.145   Obstruction of building entrances
   
131.146   Cellar doors and grates
   
131.147   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
131.148   Vending goods on streets or sidewalks
Miscellaneous
   
131.165   Begging
   
131.166   Lodging
   
131.167   Selling or pledging property of intoxicated persons
   
131.168   Posted notices
   
131.169   Hauling
   
131.170   Offensive littering
   
131.171   Creating a hazard
   
131.172   Occult arts
 
   
131.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.001 OREGON CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   O.R.S. Chapters 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166 and 167, except for any
provision classified as a felony under state law, are adopted by reference.
Violation of an adopted provision of those chapters is an offense against this
city.
   (B)   The provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 161, relating to defenses, burden of
proof, general principles of criminal liability, parties and general principles
of justification apply to offenses defined and made punishable by this chapter.
   (C)   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning,
definitions appearing in the general definitional and other particular sections
of chapters adopted by division (A) above are applicable throughout this
chapter.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.002 CONSOLIDATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Any person committing an offense listed in the Oregon Revised Statutes
which is a “B” or “C” misdemeanor may cited under this section to appear in
Municipal Court with the accompanying O.R.S. code.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of the Uniform Fire Code may be cited
under this section to appear in Municipal Court.
   (C)   Any person violating a provision of the Union nuisance ordinances,
zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance or building codes ordinance may be
cited under this section to appear in Municipal Court.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.003 SOLICITING OR CONFEDERATING TO VIOLATE ORDINANCES.
   No person shall solicit, aid, abet, employ or engage another, or confederate
with another, to violate a provision of this or any other ordinance of the
city.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.004 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSES.
   A person who shall attempt to commit an offense mentioned in this chapter or
any ordinance of the city, but who for any reason is prevented from
consummating the act, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.005 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this chapter or any ordinance of the City of Union, an act is
prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of
an act is required, or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful of
an offense, each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.006 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   In addition to the imposition of penalties, violations of §§
131.103,
131.145,
131.147 and
131.169 through
131.171 are declared to be public nuisances and subject to abatement, as
provided in Ord. 227 or other lawful means.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 131.015 ASSAULT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly or recklessly cause physical injury
to another.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.016 MENACING.
   No person shall by word or conduct shall intentionally attempt to place
another person in fear of imminent serious physical injury.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.017 RECKLESSLY ENDANGERING ANOTHER PERSON.
   No person shall recklessly engage in conduct which creates a substantial
risk of serious physical injury to another person.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.018 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall, with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or
alarm, or by recklessly creating a risk thereof:
   (A)   Engage in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Disturb any lawful assembly of persons without lawful authority;
   (C)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic in or on a public way or
public place;
   (D)   Congregate with other persons in a public place and refuse to comply
with a lawful order of the police to disperse;
   (E)   Initiate or circulate a report, knowing it to be false, concerning an
alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime catastrophe or other emergency;
   (F)   Create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do; and
   (G)   Engage in mutual combat in public or in any place open to public view,
disturbing any group of adults and causing a complaint, or being viewed by any
child.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.019 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES.
   (A)   No person at or near a fire shall obstruct or impede the fighting of
the fire, interfere with Fire Department personnel or Fire Department
apparatus, behave in a disorderly manner or refuse to observe promptly an order
of a member of the Fire or Police Department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, members of the Fire Department are
endowed with the same powers of arrest as are conferred upon peace officers for
violations of city ordinances.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.020 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in or upon a street,
alley, mall, parking lot or structure, motor vehicle, public grounds or other
public places unless licensed for that purpose by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   No person shall be intoxicated or under the control of a controlled
substance in a public place or in any place exposed to public view and conduct
himself or herself in such a fashion as to interfere with, cause inconvenience
or obstruct the free use of any street, sidewalk, public gathering, park,
public golf course or other public way or conveyance.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.021 LOITERING.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Loiter in or near a school building or grounds, not having any reason
or relationship involving custody of or responsibility for a student or, upon
inquiry by a peace officer or school official, not having a specific legitimate
reason for being there;
   (B)   Loiter in or about a public place frequented by children, including
swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks, and public premises
adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering or molesting children;
and
   (C)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.022 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm another person:
   (A)   Subject another to offensive physical contact;
   (B)   Publicly insult another by abusive or obscene words or gestures in a
manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response; and
   (C)   Engage in a course of conduct that alarms or seriously annoys another
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.023 ABUSE OF VENERATED OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally abuse a public monument, structure, a
place of worship or burial, or the national or state flag.
   (B)   As used in this section, ABUSE means to deface, damage, defile or
otherwise physically mistreat in a manner likely to outrage public
sensibilities.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.024 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   No person shall create or assist in creating or permit the continuance of
unreasonable noise in the City of Union. The following enumeration of
violations of this section is not exclusive but is illustrative of some
unreasonable noises:
   (A)   The keeping of an animal which by loud and frequent or continued noise
disturbs the comfort and repose of a person in the vicinity;
   (B)   The use of an engine, thing or device which is so loaded, out of
repair or operated in such a manner as to create a loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (C)   The use of a mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam or
otherwise, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled;
   (D)   The construction, including excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair of a building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
except upon special permit granted by the city; and
   (E)   The use or operation of an automatic or electric piano, phonograph,
loudspeaker or sound-amplifying device so loudly as to disturb persons in the
vicinity between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; provided however, that
upon application to the Council, permits may be granted to responsible persons
or organizations to broadcast programs of music, news, speeches or general
entertainment.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.025 PROWLING.
   No person shall remain, loiter or wander upon the private property of
another without visible or lawful business with the owner or controller
thereof.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.026 GRAFFITI.
   No person shall damage or deface public or private property by means of
writing, drawing, painting, placing debris, earth, natural or manufactured
substances, without the permission of the owner or controller of the property
to do the same.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.027 PARK AND TRANSFER STATION VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall violate any rule, regulation or order of a public agency
regulating, managing or maintaining a public park or golf course, transfer
station or recycling depot.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.028 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in O.R.S. 166.260 and 166.293, as now constituted
and hereafter amended, no person shall carry concealed about his or her person
or carry concealed in a vehicle a revolver, pistol or other firearm, or any
knife other than an ordinary pocket knife, any dirk, nagger or stiletto, any
metal knuckles or any other weapon by the use of which injury could be
inflicted upon the person or property of another.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an ordinary pocket knife is one with a
maximum blade length of three and one half inches, which is not a switch-blade
or spring-blade knife.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.029 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person other than a police officer acting in his or her capacity as
such, shall discharge a firearm within the limits of the city except under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When the discharge occurs at a firing range approved by the city
council and the discharge is conducted in a safe and reasonable manner and with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property;
      (2)   When the discharge is by a person duly licensed by the Oregon
Department of Agriculture as a custom slaughterer provided that the person is
acting within the scope of the authority granted by the license and in
furtherance of the activities for which the license has been obtained. Sight
securing should be used when possible during all slaughter activity;
      (3)   When the discharge is for the humanitarian purpose of euthanizing
an animal that has been injured or ailing. Sight securing should be used when
possible during all slaughter activity; or
      (4)   When the discharge is in full compliance with a permit issued by
the City Council of the City of Union or its designee.
   (B)   The permit referred to in division (A) of this section may be issued
only for such purposes as may be considered by the city to be reasonable and
necessary when a firearm is required in furtherance of a legitimate and
otherwise lawful activity, but not including target practice outside of an
approved firing range.
   (C)   (1)   All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain the
following provision:
            “Permittee’s use of a firearm shall at all times be conducted in a
safe and reasonable manner, and all reasonable precautions shall be made to
prevent harm to any person or the property of any person. The permittee shall
be solely responsible for any and all injury arising out of permittee’s
activities. In no event shall the City of Union be responsible for injury to
person or property as a result of the permittee’s activities. Permittee shall
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City of Union of and from any and all
claims by any person for any injury, whether bodily injury, property injury, or
otherwise, as a result of permittee’s activities.”
      (2)   Sight securing should be used when possible during all slaughter
activity.
   (D)   Any permit issued pursuant to this section may contain such additional
conditions as deemed appropriate such as limits on the location of use, limits
relating to time of day, and special precautions relating to safety.
   (E)   A permit shall be personal to a specifically named permittee who shall
be a natural person. No permit issued pursuant to this section is assignable or
transferable. Every permit shall be limited in duration for a period which the
issuing official, in that official’s discretion, deems reasonable considering
the purpose for the issuance of the license.
   (F)   In furtherance of the permitting process, the city may require a
prospective permittee to supply permittee’s name, address, and such other
information as the city deems appropriate including, but not limited to,
specifics about the location of the proposed usage of the firearm, the proposed
permittee’s experience with firearms, the proximity of other persons and
property to the place of use, and alternatives that may accomplish the same
purpose as a firearm would.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, a starter’s pistol that cannot propel
any projectile and that is being used in the course of athletic activity or in
the training of hunting dogs shall not be considered a firearm.
   (H)   This section shall not be applied against a farm practice that is in
fact protected by O.R.S. 30.930 through 30.937 as such statutes may read at the
time of an alleged violation hereof. Nor shall this section be interpreted as
declaring any farm activity to be a trespass or nuisance when such practices
are protected by such statutes.
   (I)   This section is not intended to provide for a private right of action
for damages or equitable relief based upon a violation hereof.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998; Ord. 519, passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.030 DISPLAY OF A WEAPON.
   Possession or display of a deadly or dangerous weapon or firearm in the city
park, golf course, public offices or any building open to the public while
intoxicated or under the influence of a controlled substance or while
committing any other offense shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.031 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for a person to possess or discharge any
illegal fireworks or explosives, including any pyrotechnic device that has a
report, explosion or leaves the ground.
   (B)   The sale of any illegal fireworks or explosives shall be a violation.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for a person to discharge permitted fireworks
in dry grass, leaves or any other location where they may contact dry,
combustible materials.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
§ 131.045 THEFT.
   (A)   O.R.S. 164.015 to 164.045, O.R.S. 164.065 and O.R.S. 164.085 to
164.125 as now or hereafter constituted, are adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter, save and except penalty provisions.
   (B)   It shall be a violation to negotiate a check or checks written with
the single or aggregate amount of less than $300 which is returned by the
respective bank as “not sufficient funds” or “insufficient funds”.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.046 TRESPASS.
   No person shall enter or remain unlawfully in or upon premises.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.047 VIOLATING PRIVACY FOR ANOTHER.
   No person other than a peace officer performing a lawful duty shall enter
upon land or into a building used in whole or in part as a dwelling not his or
her own without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof and while so trespassing look through or attempt to look through a
window, door or transom of the dwelling or that part of the building used as a
dwelling with the intent to violate the privacy of any other person.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.048 MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall, with intent to cause substantial inconvenience to the
owner or to another person, and having no right to do so nor reasonable ground
to believe he or she has the right, tamper or interfere with property of
another.
   (B)   No person shall, while having no right to do so nor reasonable ground
to believe that he or she has the right, intentionally damage property of
another or recklessly damage property of another.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
SEXUAL AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 131.065 ACCOSTING FOR DEVIATE PURPOSES.
   No person shall, while in a public place, invite or request another person
to engage in deviate sexual intercourse.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.066 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall, while in or in view of a public place, perform:
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse;
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
   (C)   An act of exposing his or her genitals with the intent of arousing the
sexual desire of himself or herself or another person; and
   (D)   An act of urination or defecation, except in toilets provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
MINORS
§ 131.080 CHILD NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person having custody or control of a minor child under ten years
of age shall, with criminal negligence leave the child unattended in or at any
place for such period of time as may be likely to endanger the health or
welfare of the child.
   (B)   It shall be lawful and the duty of a police officer or other peace
officer finding a child confined in violation of the terms of this section, to
enter the place and remove the child, using such force as is reasonably
necessary to effect an entrance to the place where the child may be confined in
order to remove the child.
   (C)   PLACE shall include but not be restricted to vehicles.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.081 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE BY MINOR.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being less than a certain, specified age, knowingly represent himself
or herself to be of any age other than his or her true age with the intent of
securing a right, benefit or privilege which by law is denied to persons under
that certain, specified age; and
   (B)   Being unmarried, knowingly represent that he or she is married with
the intent of securing a right, benefit or privilege which by law is denied to
unmarried persons.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.082 MEDICINE SAMPLES; DELIVERY TO MINORS.
   No person shall knowingly distribute or give away samples of any medicines
or drugs to any minor person within the city.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.083 PURCHASE OF PROPERTY FROM MINORS.
   No person shall purchase any property or article of value from any minor or
have any dealings respecting the title of any property in the possession of any
minor without the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.084 MINORS IN POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person other than his or her parent or guardian shall sell, give,
furnish, serve or otherwise make available any alcoholic liquor to any person
under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall attempt to purchase,
purchase or acquire alcoholic liquor. Except when the minor is in a private
residence accompanied by his or her parent or guardian and with the parent’s or
guardian’s consent, no person under the age of 21 years shall have in his or
her possession alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, possession of alcoholic liquor
includes the acceptance or consumption of a bottle of the liquor, any portion
thereof or a drink of the liquor. However, this section does not prohibit the
acceptance or consumption by any person of sacramental wine as part of a
religious rite or service.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.085 DELIVERING OR SELLING LIQUOR BY MINOR.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no minor, either for
himself, herself or as agent or employee of another, shall sell, offer for sale
or deliver any alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall employ, hire
or engage any minor to sell, offer for sale or deliver any alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Any employee 18 years of age or older of a person who holds any
package store license from the Oregon Liquor Control Commission may sell any
alcoholic liquor authorized by the license on the licensed premises.
   (D)   A minor, for purposes of this section, shall be considered a person
under the age of 21.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
ANIMALS
§ 131.100 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, no person shall intentionally
or recklessly:
      (1)   Subject any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment;
      (2)   Subject any animal under his or her custody or control to cruel
neglect; and
      (3)   Kill without legal privilege any animal under the custody or
control of another, or any wild bird.
   (B)   As used in this section, ANIMAL includes birds.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.101 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall put out or place any poison where the same is liable to be
eaten by any horse, cattle, sheep, hog, dog or other domestic animals.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.102 VEHICLES INJURING ANIMALS.
   Any person operating a vehicle within the city who shall run over, strike,
injure, maim or kill any domestic animal shall immediately stop and render aid
to the animal, if injured, or provide for the disposition of the carcass, if
the animal is killed, and in either case, the person shall make due and
diligent inquiry to determine the owner of the animal; and if the owner be
found, he or she shall notify him or her of the occurrence and also report the
same forthwith to the Chief of Police or his or her assistant.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 131.103 REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   No person shall permit an animal carcass owned or controlled by him or her
to remain upon public property, or to be exposed on private property, for a
period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to remove or dispose of the
carcass.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.104 FEEDING OF DEER, RACCOON, WILD TURKEYS, AND POTENTIALLY HABITUATED
WILDLIFE PROHIBITED.
   (A)    As used in this section:
      (1)   OFFICER means any person authorized to enforce city codes.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY HABITUATED WILDLIFE, as defined by O.R.S. 496.731(b),
means bear, cougar, coyote and wolf.
   (B)   A person who knowingly places, deposits, distributes, stores or
scatters food, garbage or any other attractant so as to constitute a lure,
attraction or enticement for deer, raccoon, wild turkeys, wolves, or
potentially habituated wildlife may be issued a citation.
(Ord. 533, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
131.999
OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 131.120 UNSWORN FALSIFICATION.
   No person shall knowingly make any false written statement to a public
servant in connection with an application for any benefit.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.121 OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally obstruct, impair or hinder the
administration of law or other governmental function by means of intimidation,
force or physical interference or obstacle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the obstruction of unlawful
governmental action or interference with the making of an unlawful arrest.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.122 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC RECORDS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, knowingly destroy, mutilate,
conceal, remove, make a false entry in or falsely alter any public record.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.123 IMPERSONATION.
   No person shall, with intent to obtain a benefit or to injure or defraud
another, falsely impersonate a public servant and do an act in such assumed
character.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.124 FALSE REPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly initiate a false alarm or report which is
transmitted to a Fire Department or law enforcement agency or other
organization that deals with emergencies involving danger to life or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly make or file with the Police Department, the
City Attorney or a police officer engaged in his or her official duties, a
false, misleading or unfounded statement or report concerning the violation or
alleged violation of a city ordinance, the commission or alleged commission of
a crime.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.125 REFUSING TO ASSIST IN FIRE-FIGHTING OPERATIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Upon command by a person known by him or her to be a firefighter,
unreasonably refuse or fail to assist in extinguishing a fire or protecting
property threatened thereby; or
   (B)   Upon command by a person known by him or her to be a firefighter or
peace officer, intentionally and unreasonably disobey a lawful order relating
to his or her conduct in the vicinity of the fire.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.126 RESISTING OR REFUSING TO AID OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist any peace officer acting in the performance of
his or her duties or, when requested to do so, refuse to assist any such
officer in the discharge of his or her duties or by any means whatsoever
hinder, delay or obstruct any officer acting in the performance of his or her
duties.
   (B)   As used in this section, “resist” refers to the ordinary meaning of
the term.
   (C)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace
officer lacked legal authority to make an arrest: provided, he or she was
acting under color of his or her official authority.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.127 ESCAPE.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Knowingly escape or attempt to escape from official detention;
   (B)   Knowingly cause, aid, assist, abet or facilitate an escape from
official detention; and
   (C)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESCAPE means an unlawful departure; and
      (2)   OFFICIAL DETENTION means:
         (a)   Arrest by a peace officer;
         (b)   Detention in a vehicle or facility for the transportation or
custody of persons under arrest, charge or conviction of an offense;
         (c)   Detention for extradition or deportation; and
         (d)   Other detention because the person detained is charged with or
convicted of an offense.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.128 POLICE AND FIRE COMMUNICATIONS.
   No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave or cause a
disturbance of such magnitude as to interfere with the proper functioning of
any Police or Fire Department radio communication system.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.129 DELIVERIES TO PRISONERS.
   No person shall deliver, by any means whatsoever, intoxicating liquor,
dangerous drugs or narcotic drugs as defined by state law to a person confined
in the city jail, or attempt to convey or deliver to the person any article
without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
STREET AND SIDEWALK OFFENSES
§ 131.145 OBSTRUCTION OF BUILDING ENTRANCES.
   No person shall obstruct any entrance to any building or loiter
unnecessarily about or near any entrance, stairway or hall leading to any
building.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.146 CELLAR DOORS AND GRATES.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit a cellar door or grate
located in or upon a sidewalk or public pathway to remain open except when the
entrance is being used and, when being used, there are adequate safeguards for
pedestrians using the sidewalk.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.147 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No owner of property adjacent to a street upon which is located a fire
hydrant shall place or maintain within eight feet of the fire hydrant any bush,
shrub, tree or other obstruction.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.148 VENDING GOODS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall use or occupy any portion of a street or sidewalk for the
purpose of vending goods, wares or merchandise by public outcry or otherwise,
unless a license has first been obtained.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 131.165 BEGGING.
   No person shall accost another in a public place for the purpose of
soliciting alms.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.166 LODGING.
   No person shall lodge in a car, outbuilding or other place not intended for
that purpose without permission of the owner or person entitled to the
possession thereof.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.167 SELLING OR PLEDGING PROPERTY OF INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person shall purchase property from any person who is in an intoxicated
condition or under the influence of any narcotic drug, or advance or loan money
to the person, or have any dealings with any person respecting the title of
property.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.168 POSTED NOTICES.
   No person shall affix a placard, bill or poster upon personal or real
property, private or public, without first obtaining permission from the owner
thereof or from the proper public authority.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.169 HAULING.
   No person shall haul sand, gravel, rock, wood or other substances in any
vehicle or conveyance that is so constructed or in such condition as to allow
the sand gravel, rock, wood or other substance to fall on and litter the public
streets of the city.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.170 OFFENSIVE LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall create an objectionable stench or degrade the beauty
or appearance of property or detract from the natural cleanliness or safety of
property by intentionally:
      (1)   Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris,
carcass or other refuse upon the land of another without permission of the
owner, or upon any public way;
      (2)   Draining, or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the
drainage from cesspools, septic tanks, recreational or camping vehicle waste
holding tank or other contaminated sources upon the land of another without
permission of the owner; or upon any public way; and
      (3)   Permitting any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or other refuse to
be thrown from a vehicle which he or she is operating; except that this section
shall not apply to a person operating a vehicle transporting passengers for
hire subject to regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Public
Utility Commissioner of Oregon or a person operating a school bus, as defined
in O.R.S. 801.460.
   (B)   As used in this section, PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to
roads, streets, alleys, lanes, trails, beaches, parks and all recreational
facilities operated by the city, state or county for use by the general public.
   (C)   Fines will be double if littering occurs on private property, public
park, golf course or waterway.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.171 CREATING A HAZARD.
   No person shall create a hazard by:
   (A)   Intentionally maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children
a container with a compartment of more than one and one-half cubic feet
capacity and a door or lid which locks or fastens automatically when closed and
which cannot be easily opened from the inside; or
   (B)   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property upon which
there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth of four
feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more, intentionally fail or refuse
to cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.172 OCCULT ARTS.
   No person shall engage in the practice of fortune telling, astrology,
phrenology, palmistry, clairvoyance, mesmerism or spiritualism, or conduct any
spiritualistic readings or exhibitions of any such character for hire or
profit; provided, however, that this section shall not be deemed to prohibit
any person from conducting or carrying on any of the abovementioned arts if
duly licensed to do so under any of the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable according to
the provisions of Ordinance 359 by a forfeiture not to exceed $500; provided,
however, if there is a violation of any provision identical to a state statute
with a lesser penalty attaching, punishment shall be limited to the less
penalty prescribed in the state law.
   (B)   Any violation of §
131.104 may be considered a nuisance and is punishable each day the nuisance is
maintained and shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 461, passed 6-8-1998; Ord. 533, passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Reward for arrest and conviction of persons damaging city property
§ 132.01 REWARD FOR ARREST AND CONVICTION OF PERSONS DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Vandalism. The Common Council of the City of Union, Oregon, is hereby
authorized to offer a reward to any person or persons supplying information
leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone damaging or destroying city
property or violating any ordinance of the City of Union.
   (B)   Reward for information. The amount of any reward so offered shall rest
in the discretion of the Council, taking into consideration the seriousness of
the property damage or the ordinance violation, but shall not exceed the sum of
$250.
(Ord. 277, passed 10-29-1969)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODES
      
152.   PARTITION AND SUBDIVISION
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   TRAILER PARKS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adopting text amendments to the city Land Use Plan, zoning ordinance
and partition and subdivision ordinance; adopted by reference
§ 150.01 ADOPTING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE CITY LAND USE PLAN, ZONING ORDINANCE
AND PARTITION AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Union’s text amendments to the city Land Use Plan, zoning
ordinance and partition subdivision ordinance are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 446, passed 9-9-1996)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODES
Section
State of Oregon Speciality Codes
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Adoption of codes
   
151.03   Enforcement
   
151.04   Fees
   
151.05   Application
   
151.06   Codes administered by the city
   
151.07   Local interpretation
   
151.08   Appeals
Numbering of Buildings
   
151.25   House numbers required
   
151.26   Numbering system
   
151.27   Base lines
   
151.28   Assigning numbers
   
151.29   Duty to install numbers
   
151.30   Placement of numbers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STATE OF OREGON SPECIALITY CODES
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. The Union City Administrator or his or her
designee.
   BUILDING. A structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The officer or other designed authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of these codes, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A building permit issued subject to the regulations
described in the Oregon State Structural Specialty Codes and Manufactured
Dwelling Administrative Rules, Chapter 918, Divisions 500, 505, 510, 515 and
520, General Rules.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The codes and sets of regulations listed in this subchapter, as
hereinafter amended or modified, are hereby adopted as though fully set out
herein and shall be known as the Specialty Codes for the City of Union.
   (B)   The codes adopted as hereinafter modified or amended are:
      (1)   Uniform Building Code, 1988 edition as promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Codes Agency of the State of Oregon as of
the date of passage of this subchapter;
      (2)   CABO One-and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1989 edition as promulgated
by the Council of American Building Officials and as modified, supplemented or
amended by the Building Codes Agency of the State of Oregon as of the date of
passage of this subchapter;
      (3)   Uniform Plumbing Codes, 1989 edition as promulgated by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials and as modified,
supplemented or amended by the Building Codes Agency of the State of Oregon as
of the date of passage of this subchapter;
      (4)   Uniform Mechanical Code, 1988 edition as promulgated by
International Conference of Building Officials and as modified, supplemented or
amended by the Building Codes Agency of the State of Oregon as of the date of
passage of this subchapter;
      (5)   Manufactured Dwelling Administrative Rules, Chapter 918, Divisions
500, 505, 510, 515 and 520 as adopted by the Building Codes Agency of the State
of Oregon and the administrative interpretations thereof contained in the
pamphlet Manufactured Dwelling Administrative Rules, January 1990; and
      (6)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1994
edition, as promulgated by the International Conference of Building Officials
and as modified, supplemented or amended by the Building Codes Agency of the
State of Oregon as of the date of passage of the ordinance.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991; Ord. 448, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 151.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official shall administer and enforce the codes herein adopted.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.04 FEES.
   Fees for permits hereunder shall be the same as those set by the Union
County Board of Commissioners. In addition, there is also established a fee to
be collected by the City of Union for pre-application review of a building
permit. The City Council shall establish the amount of the pre-application fee
by resolution.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all buildings and structures within the City
of Union unless specifically exempted herein.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.06 CODES ADMINISTERED BY THE CITY.
   As allowed and permitted by the State of Oregon, codes adopted hereunder to
be enforced by the City of Union shall be those codes designated by §
151.02.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.07 LOCAL INTERPRETATION.
   In addition to the provisions of § 105 of the Structural Specialty Code and
similar provision of other specialty codes, the Building Official may approve a
material or a method of construction not specifically prescribed by these
codes, provided he or she finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and
that the material, method or work offered is suitable for the purpose intended
or at least the equivalent of that prescribed in these codes in suitability,
strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and sanitation and
that the Administrator of the Building Codes Agency has not issued a report
disapproving the material or method for the purpose. The Building Official may
refer the proposed design to the County Board of Appeals as provided in § 204
(a) of the Structural Specialty Code, and any person affected by a ruling of
the Building Official may appeal the ruling to the Board of Appeals within 30
days of the date of the ruling. The provisions of this section shall not be
interpreted to preclude a person from requesting a ruling from the
Administrator of the Building Codes Agency prior to submitting an application
to the city for a permit or after withdrawing a previously submitted
application.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 151.08 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official may appeal
therefrom by filing a written notice with the Union County Board of
Commissioners according to the procedure provided by Union County Ord. 1990-4.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
§ 151.25 HOUSE NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   There is hereby established a uniform system of numbering all houses,
stores, establishments and other buildings, excepting minor sheds and
outbuildings now situated or which may hereafter be erected within the city
limits of the City of Union, Oregon, and which are hereinafter referred to as
structures. The numbers shall be placed near the main entrance of each
structure, and in accordance with the map and plan now on file in City Hall,
which shall be known as the “Official Numbering Map of the City of Union”.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.26 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   Numbers on all structures on the south side of streets that run east and
west, and numbers on all structures on the west side of streets running north
and south, shall be even numbers commencing with the numbers 100, and numbers
on all structures on the north side of streets running east and west, and on
all structures on the east side of streets running north and south, shall be
odd numbers commencing with the numbers 101.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.27 BASE LINES.
   (A)   Main Street in the City of Union shall be the base line for commencing
to number all streets running east and west, and Arch Street shall be the base
line for commencing to number all streets running north and south.
   (B)   All numbering east or west of Main Street shall be designated “east”
or “west” as the case may be.
   (C)   All numbering north or south of Arch Street shall be designated
“north” or “south”.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.28 ASSIGNING NUMBERS.
   (A)   The numbering shall be fixed by blocks.
   (B)   The confines of a block shall be fixed by the Council. Each block
shall be allowed 100 numbers, with 50 to each side of a street in the block.
   (C)   The numbers shall be assigned to structures on a frontage basis
proportionate to the length of the block, and in the event a question arises as
to the proper number for a particular structure, the question shall be decided
by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The general guideline for this decision will be that a number is
assigned to each approximately five feet of frontage.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.29 DUTY TO INSTALL NUMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, occupying
or controlling any structure within the City of Union, to obtain from the
Recorder the correct number for the structure and to number the same in
accordance with provisions hereof, the same to be done within 30 days of the
passage of this subchapter, or within 30 days of the erection of any structure
which may be constructed after passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.30 PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   Numbers shall be affixed to the door or door frame of the main entrance to
the structure or as near thereto as practical, in a location conspicuous from
the street from which the structure faces.
   (A)   Numbers shall be attached to the building and shall be on a background
material that allows for easy reading at any time of day or night, and shall be
kept in good repair at all times.
   (B)   Numbers shall be not less than four inches high.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   State of Oregon speciality codes.
      (1)   A person shall not:
         (a)   Violate or procure aid or abet in the violation of any final
order concerning the application of a provision of the State Building Code in a
particular case made by any local Appeals Board, Building Official or
Inspector; and
         (b)   Engage in or procure aid or abet any other person to engage in
or conduct an activity for which a permit, certificate, label or other formal
authorization is required by any specialty code or other regulation without
first having obtained the permit certificate, label or other formal
authorization.
      (2)   A person who violates division (B)(1) above shall be subject to
civil penalty not to exceed $100 per violation. In the case of a continuing
violation, every day’s continuance of the violation is a separate violation.
   (C)   Numbering of buildings. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or
refuse to obtain a number or to place the same on any structure owned, occupied
or controlled by the person in the manner in §§
151.25 through
151.30 provided; and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person to remove,
alter or deface any number, or to substitute any other number therefore; and
any person violating any provision of §§
151.25 through
151.30 shall, upon conviction thereof in the Municipal Court of the City of
Union, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any amount not
exceeding $25.
(Ord. 419, passed 2-12-1990; Ord. 428, passed 1-14-1991)
CHAPTER 152: PARTITION AND SUBDIVISION
Section
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purposes
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Urban growth management policies
   
152.05   Scope of regulations
   
152.06   Application procedure
   
152.07   Tentative plan requirements
   
152.08   Submission of final plat
   
152.09   Creation of streets or ways
   
152.10   Street, roadway and other utility design and improvement standards
   
152.11   Improvements
   
152.12   Modifications
   
152.13   Amendments
   
152.14   Fees
   
152.15   Appeals
   
152.16   Interpretation of chapter provisions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision and Partition Ordinance,
Union, Oregon” as provided by the enabling legislation of O.R.S. Chapters 92
and 227.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13- 2004)
§ 152.02 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To accomplish the orderly development of land;
      (2)   Facilitate creation and sales of lots and parcels; and
      (3)   Insure that needed access, public services and facilities are, or
can be made available to areas proposed for development.
   (B)    In pursuit of these purposes, the following factors shall be taken
into account:
      (1)   Land use plan and zoning provisions, and compliance with the
adopted Transportation System Plan;
      (2)   The suitability and compatibility of the proposed partitioning or
subdividing as related to adjacent and surrounding area development;
      (3)   The extent and placement of needed facilities and services;
      (4)   Street location and improvement consistent with the Transportation
System Plan (TSP), and may include requiring that access be extended to
adjacent properties;
      (5)   Safety from fire, flood, landslide or other hazards;
      (6)   Other transportation, service, drainage, education, recreation or
related needs;
      (7)   Soils and related characteristics; and
      (8)   Land development with access to State Highway 203 and/or 237 will
address safety, capacity, functional classification, and level of service.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
    As used in this chapter, the masculine includes the feminine and neuter and
the singular includes the plural. Unless it is apparent from the context that
different meanings are intended, the words and phrases below shall have the
following meanings.
   ALLEY. A narrow street through a block which affords only secondary means of
access to abutting property at the rear or side thereof.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street carrying fast or heavy traffic of considerable
continuity, used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among
large areas.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on a plat indicating the limit beyond which buildings
or other structures may not be erected.
   CITY. City of Union, Oregon.
   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets of a development and
streets for circulation within such a development.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan adopted by the City Council as a guide for the
growth and improvement of the city including modifications, refinements and
amendments which may be made from time to time.
   COMMISSION.  Planning Commission, City of Union, Oregon.
   COUNCIL or CITY. Mayor and Council of the City of Union, Oregon.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and being
terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   DEVELOPER. Property owner or authorized representative thereof requesting to
partition, subdivide or develop land.
   EASEMENT. A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes.
   LOT. A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot at least two adjacent sides of which abut streets
other than alleys, provided the angle of intersection of the adjacent streets
does not exceed 135 degrees.
      (2)   THROUGH LOT. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets other than alleys.
   MAJOR PARTITION. A partition that includes the creation of a road or street,
i.e. utilization of a means of access not previously approved for partitioning
or subdividing.
   MARGINAL ACCESS. A cul-de-sac street, driveway, lane or frontage road,
generally providing access to a limited number of abutting lots.
   MINOR PARTITION. A partition creating two or three parcels, and which does
not include the creation of a road or street, or utilization of a means of
access not previously approved for partitioning or subdividing.
   MINOR STREET. A street used primarily for access to abutting lots, and
having greater anticipated traffic demands than marginal access streets.
   PARCEL. A unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land.
   PARTITION. Either an act of partitioning land or area or tract of land
partitioned.
   PARTITION LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels
within a calendar year. PARTITION LAND does not include divisions of land
resulting from lien foreclosures, foreclosure of a recorded contract for the
sale of real property, the creation of cemetery lots, the  adjustment of a
parcel or lot line by the relocation of a common boundary where an additional
parcel is not created and where the existing parcel reduced in size by the
adjustment is not reduced below the minimum lot size established by any
applicable zoning ordinance and a sale or grant by a person to a public agency
or public body for state highway, county road, city street or other right-of-
way purposes provided that the road or right-of-way complies with the
applicable comprehensive plan and O.R.S. 215.213(2)(q) to (r).
   PARTITION PLAT. A final map and other writing containing all the
descriptions, locations, specifications, provisions and information concerning
a major or minor partition.
   PARTITIONER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect
a partition of land hereunder for himself, herself or for another.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
syndicate or any legal entity, and including any trustee, receiver, assigner or
other similar representative thereof.
   PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR. The Council or that official(s) designated by the
City Council to administer this chapter.
   PLAT. A final subdivision plat, re-plat or partition plat.
   RE-PLAT. A final map of the reconfiguration of lots and easements of a
recorded subdivision or partition plat and other writings containing all the
descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications and provisions and
information concerning a recorded partition or subdivision.
   ROAD. A public or private way which is used or intended to provide access
(ingress or egress), for persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts
of land, excluding a private way that is created to provide access (ingress or
egress), to the land in conjunction with forestry, mining or agricultural uses.
   STREET. See ROAD.
   STREET WIDTH.  The shortest distance between the lines delineating the
right-of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself, herself or for another.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots
within a calendar year.
   SUBDIVISION. Either an act of subdividing land or tract of land subdivided
as defined in this chapter.
   URBAN LANDS. Lands inside the City of Union Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) for
which sewer and water service are available and capable of supporting planned
levels of development, including associated open space and unbuildable land.
   URBAN LEVELS OF DEVELOPMENT. Development which generally requires supporting
full urban services (city water, sewer, street and etc.) to be capable of
reaching development levels planned for within the city Comprehensive Plan.
   URBAN TSP AREA. The platted and developed portions within the city’s Urban
Growth Boundary where existing driveways onto the state highway system are
conforming features until redevelopment, at which time the driveway will be
evaluated by the city and ODOT in order to preserve safety.
   URBANIZABLE LANDS. Lands inside the city Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) that
are designated for urban development for which sewer and water services capable
of supporting planned developments are available.
   URBANIZABLE TSP AREA. The sparsely developed portion of land between the
urban area and the Urban Growth Boundary where new public streets accessing the
state highway system are based on the adopted Local Street Plan and new
driveways accessing the state highway system are at least 150 feet apart.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.04 URBAN GROWTH MANAGEMENT POLICIES.
   In order to provide an orderly and smooth transition from urbanizable to
urban land, all proposed partitions or subdivisions shall be in accordance with
Urban Growth Management Policies provided in the city Land Use Plan.
(Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.05 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall subdivide or partition land within the city limits
except as provided in this chapter.  All partition and subdivision plats and
all streets and ways utilized for the purpose of creating lots or parcels are
required to be approved in accordance with these regulations. A person desiring
to subdivide or partition land within the incorporated area of the city shall
submit tentative plans and final documents for approval as provided in this
chapter and Oregon Revised Statutes.
      (2)   Recording of a lot or parcel. No lot or parcel created by
subdividing or by major or minor partitioning shall be submitted for recording
to the County Clerk nor have any validity unless it has been approved as
required by this chapter.
      (3)   Sale of lots or parcels. No person shall sell any lot in any
subdivision or convey any interest in a parcel in any partition until the plat
of the subdivision or partition has been acknowledged and recorded with the
Union County Clerk. In negotiating to sell a lot in a subdivision or convey any
interest in a parcel in any partition, a person may use the approved tentative
plan for the subdivision or partition.
      (4)   Permits. No building permit, or permission for the connection to
the city water or sewerage system shall be given for any structure on a parcel
or lot in a partition or subdivision for which a plan or plat has not been
approved and recorded in a manner prescribed herein.
   (B)   Withholding city services. The city may withhold all public
improvements, including maintenance of streets and roads, from a partition or
subdivision which has not been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed
herein.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary review.
      (1)   Prior to creating any new lots or parcels, the developer should
obtain the checklist for partition or subdivision requirements, and discuss his
or her intent with the Planning Administrator. It is desirable to prepare
sketch maps and assemble other information as needed to discuss the proposal.
      (2)   If any parcel of land abuts Oregon State Highway 203 and/or 237,
then the applicant shall notify and consult with the city and the ODOT District
Manager prior to submitting any land use application. The purpose for this
contact is to involve ODOT at the beginning of the application process so that
the property owner/developer has the benefit of ODOT comments prior to
submitting a site plan, conditional use application, or tentative plat map.
      (3)   In considering possible partition or subdivision activities, the
developer should recognize:
         (a)   That the proposal may be denied, unless it meets all conditions;
and
         (b)   That the factors below will be considered to determine
suitability of the proposal:
            1.   Land Use Plan and zoning provisions;
            2.   Initial and potential future development of the area;
            3.   Initial and potential future area street design and related
requirements;
            4.   Type of sewage disposal and water supply provisions required
under §
152.07(G)(2) and (3);
            5.   School district service capability;
            6.   Consistency with the Transportation System Plan; and
            7.   Other information as may be pertinent.
   (B)   Initiation of an application. A developer shall submit an application
on forms provided by the city accompanied by a tentative plan showing the
general design of the proposed subdivision or partition accompanied by the
prescribed fee. Partition or subdivision activities may be initiated if the
developer satisfies the following:
      (1)   Is in accord with the area Land Use Plan and zoning requirements;
and
      (2)   Is suitable for partitioning or subdividing and does not materially
alter the stability of the overall land use pattern of the area, not initiate
or encourage a pattern of development incompatible with existing area uses. In
determining suitability, the following policies shall be recognized:
         (a)   Access and provisions for water supply, sewage disposal, school
capacity, surveying and possible other requirements must be satisfied;
         (b)   The development will not adversely affect the economic and
social conditions and other characteristics which make the city desirable in
which to live; and
         (c)   The proposal is consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (C)   Tentative plan.  
      (1)   A tentative plan and at least ten copies (unless a lesser number is
determined acceptable by the Planning Administrator), for distribution to other
departments and agencies shall be submitted along with supplementary materials
as required and the prescribed fee. The tentative plan shall include the items
indicated in this chapter. Within 30 days, or at the next available regularly
scheduled Council meeting after the tentative plan is determined complete by
the Planning Administrator, the Council shall set a hearing date to consider
the request. The Planning Administrator shall mail notice of the hearing to all
interested agencies and departments, Council members, area landowners within
300 feet of the proposed development and to the other vicinity residents as he
or she determines may be affected.
      (2)   All plans that include road and street improvements shall provide
the nature and findings regarding the desired improvements in a notice to each
transportation facility provider as follows:
         (a)   Notice will be provided to ODOT regarding any land use action on
or adjacent to a state facility;
         (b)   All actions potentially affecting a jurisdiction’s road/street
shall require notice to that jurisdiction’s Public Works and Planning
Department; and
         (c)   Notice will be given to providers of public transit and special
interest transportation groups, such as railroad, bicyclists, pedestrians, and
the disabled, on any roadway or other transportation project. Transportation
interest groups must request notice in writing and may be subject to a fee.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.07 TENTATIVE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Tentative plans and related written information for partitions and
subdivisions shall include the following.
   (A)   Scale. The tentative plan shall be drawn on a sheet 18 by 24 inches in
size at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet, or as previously approved by the
Planning Administrator.
   (B)   Proposed design. The following information shall be included on the
tentative plan:
      (1)   The location, width, names and approximate grade of all streets.
The relationship to surrounding streets and to any projected streets showing in
the Transportation System Plan (TSP Figure 6), or any plan adopted by the city
or, if no such plan has been adopted, as may be identified by the City Council
in order to assure adequate traffic circulation.
      (2)   The location, width and purpose of easements; and
      (3)   The location and approximate dimensions of parcels or lots and the
proposed parcel or lot and block numbers.
   (C)   General information. The following general information shall be shown
on the tentative plan:
      (1)   Proposed name of a subdivision shall not duplicate, sound alike or
resemble the name of another subdivision in the county and shall be approved by
the Council;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale of drawing;
      (3)   Appropriate identification clearly stating the map as a tentative
plan;
      (4)   Location of the partition or subdivision sufficient to define the
location and boundaries of the subject property; and
      (5)   Names and addresses of the owner, developer, and engineer or
surveyor.
   (D)   Existing conditions. The following existing conditions shall be shown
on the tentative plan:
      (1)   The location, widths and names of both opened and unopened streets
within or adjacent to the subject property, together with easements and other
important features, such as section lines, corners, city boundary lines and
monuments;
      (2)   Land use plan and zoning classifications on and adjacent to the
property proposed to be partitioned or subdivided;
      (3)   Contour lines having the following minimum intervals: two foot
contour intervals for ground slopes of less than 10%, and ten foot contour
lines for slopes of more than 10%. The elevations of all control points which
are used to determine the contours shall be indicated and must be based on the
United States Geodetic Survey;
      (4)   The location and direction of water courses and the location of
areas subject to flooding;
      (5)   Natural features such as rock outcroppings, landslide hazard areas,
wetlands, flood plains, wooded areas and other unique features;
      (6)   Known historical sites or structures and provisions for recognition
or protection thereof; and
      (7)   Existing uses of the property, including location of all existing
structures to remain on the property after platting and existing structures to
be removed.
   (E)   Partial development. If the partition or subdivision plat pertains to
only part of the tract owned or controlled by the developer, the City Council
will require a shadow plat for tentative street layout, extension of services
and future parcelization to an urban density in the unpartitioned or
unsubdivided portion.
   (F)   Supplementary information with tentative plan.  The following
information shall be required by the city and, if it can not be shown
practicably on the tentative plan, it shall be submitted in separate statements
accompanying the tentative plan:
      (1)   A vicinity map, showing existing adjacent ownership to the proposed
partition or subdivision and showing how proposed streets and utilities may be
extended to connect to existing and proposed streets and utilities;
      (2)   Proposed deed restrictions, if any, in outline form;
      (3)   The location of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, drain pipes
and electric and telephone lines within the proposed partition or subdivision
and in the adjoining streets and property; and
      (4)   Subject to any standards and procedures adopted pursuant to O.R.S.
92.044, no plat of a subdivision or partition located within the boundaries of
an irrigation district, drainage district, water control district, water
improvement district to district improvement company shall be approved by the
city unless the city has received and accepted a certification from the
district or company that the subdivision or partition is either entirely
excluded from the district or company or is included within the district or
company for purposes of receiving services and subjecting the subdivision or
partition to the fees and other charges of the district or company.
   (G)   Supplemental plans with tentative plan. The following information
shall be submitted with the tentative plan:
      (1)   Proposed street designation, e.g., arterial, collector and the
like, and approximate center line profiles with extensions for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed partition or subdivision showing the
approximate grade of streets and the nature and extent of street construction.
If direct access to a state highway is proposed, access must be provided in a
manner consistent with the access management provisions and the Local Street
Plan in the Transportation System Plan.
      (2)   Any proposed parcel less than five acres must:
         (a)   Include a plan for connecting to city water, including plans for
water lines and necessary rights-of-way;
         (b)   Include a plan for connecting to city sewer including plans for
sewer lines and required rights-of-way; and
         (c)   Include stormwater drainage and flood control measures and
including profiles of proposed drainage ways.
      (3)   Any proposed parcel five acres or greater must:
         (a)   Include a plan for domestic water supply, including the source
and plans for water lines;
         (b)   Include a proposal for sewage disposal, storm water drainage and
flood control, including profiles of proposed drainage ways; and
         (c)   Parcels five acres and larger but smaller than ten acres must
submit on the tentative plan a “shadow plat” indicating the following:
            1.   Future road right-of-way including those recognized in the TSP
or required by the Planning Commission or Planning Official;
            2.   Future parcelization to an urban density;
            3.   Provision for the extension of city sewer and water service;
and
            4.   Provision for stormwater and flood control.
      (4)   Rights-of-way proposals for other improvements such as television,
cable, telephone, electric and gas utilities.
      (5)   Present and future school district service capability.
      (6)   Such additional information as may be required by the city to
ensure compliance with the objectives of this chapter.
      (7)   Submit a traffic impact study when the proposal affects a
transportation facility, if the proposal:
         (a)   Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility;
         (b)   Changes standards implementing a functional classification
system;
         (c)   Allows types or levels of land use that would result in levels
of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification or
a transportation facility; or
         (d)   Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the
minimum acceptable level identified in the Transportation System Plan.
      (8)   A required traffic study shall consider:
         (a)   Whether the proposed use imposes an undue burden on the public
transportation system. For developments that are likely to generate more than
400 average daily motor vehicle trips (ADTs), the applicant shall provide
adequate information, such as a traffic impact study or traffic counts, to
demonstrate the level of impact to the surrounding street system. Standards by
which to gauge 400 ADT include: ten trips per day per single family household
which would equal 40 homes; five trips per day per apartment which would equal
a complex of 80 apartments; and 30 trips per day per 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area which would equal a supermarket or other retail development. The
developer shall be required to mitigate adverse impacts attributable to the
project.
         (b)   That the scope of the impact study, and the determination of
impact or effect, is coordinated with the provider of the affected
transportation facility.
      (9)   A plan for bicycle and pedestrian facilities and improvements
within the subdivision, including accessways as necessary to provide more
direct connections through the subdivision. The tentative plan shall
demonstrate how the subdivision’s internal pedestrian and bikeway system
provides safe and convenient connections to the surrounding transportation
system.
   (H)   Preliminary review of proposal. Upon receipt of tentative plan and
supplementary information, the Planning Official shall furnish copies to other
local, state or federal agencies as may have an interest in the proposal. These
officials shall be given a reasonable time to review the plan and to suggest
any revisions that are in the public interest.
   (I)   Tentative plan approval.
      (1)   Once the tentative plan is accepted as complete it shall be
scheduled for the next available Commission meeting and shall be reviewed in a
public hearing per this chapter. The Commission may approve the tentative plan
as submitted or require modifications. If the Commission conditionally approves
or does not approve the tentative plan, it shall include reasons therefore.
      (2)   No plat for any proposed subdivision or partition may be considered
for approval until the tentative plan has been approved by the Commission.
Approval by the Commission of the tentative plan shall be binding upon the city
for the purposes of the preparation of the subdivision or partition plat.
      (3)   No tentative plan for a proposed subdivision and no tentative plan
for a proposed major partition shall be approved unless:
         (a)   The streets and roads are laid out so as to conform to the
standards set forth in §
152.09 and the Transportation System Plan;
         (b)   Streets and roads held for private use are clearly indicated on
the tentative plan and all reservations or restrictions relating to the private
roads and streets are set forth thereon;
         (c)   The tentative plan complies with the applicable zoning ordinance
and regulations that are then in effect;
         (d)   Each lot or parcel shall abut a public or private street for the
required minimum lot or parcel frontage;
         (e)   If any lot or parcel abuts a street right-of-way that does not
conform to the design specifications of this code, the owner may be required to
dedicate from one-half to all of the right-of-way width necessary to meet
minimum design requirements;
         (f)   The provisions in §
152.07(G)(2) and (3) are identified for the extension of services; and
         (g)   All proposed lots or parcels must meet or exceed the minimum
parcel size of the applicable zone and shall not include street right-of-way in
the calculation of the minimum parcel size.
      (4)   The action of the Commission shall be noted on two copies of the
tentative plan, including reference to any attached documents describing
conditions. One copy shall be returned to the partitioner or subdivider and the
other shall be retained by the Commission.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.08 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Within one year after approval of the tentative plan and upon
completion of, or bonding for improvements, the partitioner or subdivider shall
prepare a final plat in conformance with the tentative plan as approved. The
partitioner or subdivider shall submit the final plat for Council
consideration. If the Council grants approval, the original drawing and the
reproducible copy, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 92 and any supplementary
information shall be filed with the Union County Clerk. If the developer wishes
to proceed with the partition or subdivision after the expiration of the one
year period following approval of the tentative plan by the Council, the
applicant must resubmit his or her tentative plan to the Council and make any
revisions considered necessary to meet changed conditions.
   (B)   Time extensions. Approval of the tentative plan is valid for one year
from the effective date of approval. A one-year time extension may be
authorized by the Planning Administrator if the tentative plan is unchanged
from the approved plan. If the plan or related conditions in the area have
changed, including plan or zone changes, new application for approval must be
requested.
   (C)   Final plat requirements. The final plat, known as the partition plat
or subdivision plat, shall conform to surveying requirements in O.R.S. 92.050
through 92.080, except any parcels greater than ten acres need not be surveyed
or monumented, but shall be platted. In addition to specific requirements in
Oregon Revised Statutes, the following information shall be shown on the final
plat:
      (1)   The date, scale, north point, basis of bearing, legend, controlling
topography such as bluffs, creeks and other bodies of water, and existing
features such as highways and railroads;
      (2)   Legal description of the tract boundaries;
      (3)   Name of the owner, subdivider and surveyor;
      (4)   The exact location and width of streets and easements intersecting
the boundary of the tract;
      (5)   Subject to §
152.07(G)(2) and (3) of this chapter the proper provisions have been made for
acquiring sewer and water service;
      (6)   The street rights-of-way width. For streets on curvature, curve
data shall be based on the street centerline. In addition to the centerline
dimensions, the radius and central angle shall be indicated;
      (7)   Lot numbers beginning with the number one and numbered
consecutively in each block, and the area of each lot containing one acre or
more to the nearest hundredth of an acre or total square footage not including
right-of-way;
      (8)   Block letters beginning with letter “A” and continuing
consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the subdivision. The
letters shall be solid, of sufficient size and thickness to stand out and be so
placed as not to obliterate any figure. Block letters, in an addition to a
subdivision of the same name, shall be a continuation of the lettering in the
original subdivision;
      (9)   Land parcels to be dedicated for any purpose, public or private, to
be distinguished from lots intended for sale;
      (10)   Building setback lines, if any, are to be made a part of the
partition or subdivision restrictions;
      (11)   The following certificates which may be combined where
appropriate:
         (a)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title interest in the land partitioned or subdivided, consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat;
         (b)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating all
rights-of-way, parcels or lots of land shown on the final map intended for any
public use. Streets and roads for public use are dedicated without any
reservation or restriction other than reversionary rights upon vacation;
         (c)   An affidavit with the seal of and signed by the registered land
surveyor responsible for the land survey and final map per O.R.S. 92.070; and
         (d)   Other certifications now or hereafter required by law.
      (12)   The location and design of all pedestrian and bicycle facilities,
including access corridors.
   (D)   Supplementary information with final plat. The following data shall
accompany the final plat:
      (1)   Addresses of the owner, subdivider and engineer or surveyor;
      (2)   A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in
the name of the owner of the land showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interests in the premises;
      (3)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the partition or
subdivision;
      (4)   A copy of any dedication requiring separate documents;
      (5)   Certification that domestic water and sewage disposal systems are
available to the lot line of each and every lot in a subdivision and assurance
by the subdivider the systems will be installed or alternative systems will be
provided according to O.R.S. 92.090(4) and (5) provisions; and
      (6)   A certificate by the city that the partitioner or subdivider has
complied with one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   All improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of these regulations and with the action of the Council in giving
approval of the tentative plan; or
         (b)   An agreement has been executed as provided in §
152.13 and to assure completion of required improvements.
   (E)   Technical review. Upon receipt of the final plat and accompanying
data, the Planning Official shall review the final plat and documents to
determine the following:
      (1)   Private streets and roads conform to the tentative plan;
      (2)   Subdivision or partition plat conforms with any applicable zoning
ordinances and regulations that are in effect;
      (3)   Donation and explanation of common improvements are recorded and
referenced on the partition or subdivision plat;
      (4)   The final plat conforms with the approved tentative plan, including
required shadow platting, road dedication, easements and service extension; and
      (5)   Compliance with other provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes and
this chapter.
   (F)   Approval of final plat. If the Planning Official determines that the
final plat conforms fully with all applicable regulations and standards, he or
she shall so advise the Mayor. The final plat shall then be placed on the next
available Council agenda, and if the Council agrees that the partition or
subdivision has complied with the requirements for tentative plan and final
plat approval, it shall be signed. If the Council determines that all
requirements have not been met, they shall identify those that are yet to be
completed and may authorize the Mayor to sign the plat upon satisfactory
compliance with the requirements.
   (G)   Before recording partition or subdivision plat with County Clerk.
      (a)   All ad valorem taxes shall be paid per O.R.S. 92.095.
      (b)   Developer shall receive approval and pay fees for the final plat
from the County Surveyor per O.R.S. 92.100.
   (H)   Recording partition or subdivision plat with County Clerk. The
partition or subdivision plat when approved as required and upon payment of the
fees provided by law shall be recorded with the County Clerk. Approval of the
final plat shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded within 30 days
after the date the last required signature has been obtained or within 90 days
after Council approval.
   (I)   Amendments to recorded partition and subdivision plats.
      (1)   Any recorded partition or subdivision plat may be amended by an
affidavit of correction per O.R.S. 92.170 provisions.
      (2)   Any recorded partition or subdivision plat may be re-platted per
O.R.S. 92.180 through 92.190 provisions.
      (3)   Any boundary of lots or parcels in a recorded subdivision or
partition plat may be adjusted as long as no new parcels or lots are created,
the adjustment does not reduce a lot or parcel below the minimum parcel size of
the applicable zone(s) and each adjusted boundary is surveyed and filed with
the County Survey and recorded with the County Clerk.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.09 CREATION OF STREETS OR WAYS.
   (A)   Creation of streets. The creation of all streets not within a
subdivision shall meet the standards for streets within a subdivision. Creation
of the streets may be initiated by the Council by resolution, or by a property
owner by request.
   (B)   Any person wishing to create a public or private road or utilize an
existing private road for purposes other than agriculture, forestry or mining,
shall make written application for consideration by the Planning Commission and
Council at public hearings.
   (C)   Application for road approval shall comply with applicable tentative
plan and final plat procedures and standards as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.10 STREET, ROADWAY AND OTHER UTILITY DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Conformity. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, topographical conditions, construction and maintenance costs,
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by the streets. Where not shown on an
area plan, the arrangement and other design standards of streets shall conform
to the provisions found herein.
      (2)   Relation to adjoining street systems. The arrangement of streets in
new partitions and subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of
the existing or desired streets in adjoining areas.
      (3)   Projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not partitioned or
subdivided, the arrangement of streets in new partitions or subdivisions shall
make provisions for the proper projection of streets.
      (4)   Streets to be carried to property lines. When a proposed partition
or subdivision joins un-platted land, street rights-of-way shall be carried to
the boundaries of the tract to be partitioned or subdivided.
      (5)   Dead-end street or cul-de-sac. Dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs,
shall not be longer than 400 feet, and be provided at the closed end with a
turn-around having an outside roadway diameter of at least 60 feet and a street
right-of-way diameter of at least 90 feet. If a dead-end street is of a
temporary nature, a turn-around may be vacated as a part of future street
extension into adjoining properties.
      (6)   Frontage streets. Where a partition or subdivision abuts or
contains an existing arterial street, the Council may require frontage streets
or other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of abutting
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
      (7)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      (8)   Street standards. Street standards shall not be less than those set
forth hereunder.
         (a)   In areas designed and zoned for commercial use, street widths
may be increased by the amount as may be deemed necessary by the Council to
provide for the free flow of vehicles, and to provide safe parking space for
the commercial or business districts.
         (b)   Street and related improvements shall be completed or bonded for
completion prior to final plat consideration and shall be constructed under the
direction of the Planning Administrator, according to the following Road
Standard Table for dimensional street standards and typical cross-sections for
arterial, collector, local and marginal access streets, incorporated herein
from Tables 9, 9A and 9B of the Transportation System Plan.
 
                          Base             Leveling Course                      Sidewalk
          Right-  Surface                                     Overlay  Shoulder Location
          of-way  Width   Depth  Aggregate Depth  Aggregate   Material Width    and Width
          Width                  Size             Size                          (Optional)

Arterial  60 feet 24      8      1 ½ to 3 4      3/4 to 1 ½ 2-inch   8 feet   5 feet
streets                   inches inches    inches inches      pavement
Collector 60              8      1 ½ to 3 4      3/4 to 1 ½ 2-inch
or minor  inches  24      inches inches    inches inches      pavement 6 inches 5 inches
streets
Marginal  30              8      1 ½ to 3 4      3/4 to 1 ½ 2 inches
access*   inches* 20      inches inches    inches inches      crunched 6 feet   None
                                                              gravel
* Marginal access rights-of-way shall not be less than 10% of street length, and shall be
provided with utility easements on each side to provide 50 feet combined utility easement
and right-of-way width.
Streets or roads with anticipated commercial or industrial traffic shall have a minimum
base depth of 12 inches.
All bridges shall have a 30-year minimum life expectancy and shall be constructed to load
limit standards approved by the Council.
The standards may be altered if the Council determines that more (or less) extensive
standards may be desirable because topographical conditions, anticipated traffic counts,
soil conditions, or continuation of existing street improvements or right-of-way widths
warrant such.
 
      (9)   Intersections. The intersections of more than two streets at one
point shall be avoided except where it is impractical to secure a proper street
system otherwise. Streets shall intersect one another at an angle as near to a
right angle as possible, and no streets shall intersect at an angle of less
than 75 degrees. Street intersections shall be rounded with a radius of 30
feet.
      (10)   Reverse curve. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be
introduced between reverse curves on arterial streets.
      (11)   Subdivision or partition into tracts larger than ordinary building
lots. Where a tract is partitioned or subdivided into larger parcels than
ordinary building lots, the parcels shall be arranged so as to allow the
opening of future streets and logical further partitioning or subdividing. A
tentative plan identifying larger parcels than ordinary will also include
shadow platting for future road right-of-way, water and sewer utility line
placement and bicycle and pedestrian facilities. The shadow platted lines shall
be used to identify dwelling and structure setback requirements.
      (12)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited except under conditions approved by the Council.
      (13)   Street crown and grades. No street grade shall be less than three-
tenths of 1%, and shall not exceed the following grade standards, with due
allowance for reasonable vertical curves:
 
Street Type     Maximum Percent Grade
Arterial        10
Collector       15
Minor           15
Marginal Access 15
 
      (14)   Half street prohibited. Half streets shall be prohibited except
where essential to the reasonable development of the partition or subdivision
in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations. Where the
Council finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other
half when adjoining property is partitioned or subdivided, the right-of-way may
be required as part of the initial plat.
      (15)   Street names and numbers. Names of new streets shall not duplicate
existing or platted street names unless a new street is a continuation of, or
in alignment with the existing or platted street.
      (16)   Access to streets across ditches. The developer shall provide
access to all proposed lots or parcels, across all ditches in a standard method
approved by the Council.
      (17)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property avoided. The street
arrangement shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining
property in platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
      (18)   Street intervals. In general, provisions should be made for
through streets at intervals not exceeding 1,250 feet.
      (19)   Joint and cross access.
         (a)   Adjacent commercial or office properties classified as major
traffic generators (i.e., shopping plazas, office parks), shall provide a cross
access drive and pedestrian access to allow circulation between sites.
         (b)   Shared parking areas shall be permitted a reduction in required
parking spaces if peak demands do not occur at the same time periods.
      (20)   Access connection and driveway design.
         (a)   Driveway width shall meet the following guidelines:
            1.   If the driveway is a one-way out drive, the driveway shall be
a minimum width of ten feet and shall have appropriate signage designating the
driveway as a one-way connection.
            2.   For two-way access, each lane shall have a minimum width of
ten feet and a maximum of four lanes shall be allowed. Whenever more than two
lanes are proposed, a median shall be considered to divide the entrance and
exit lanes.
         (b)   Driveway approaches must be designed and located to provide an
exiting vehicle with an unobstructed view. Construction of driveways along
acceleration or deceleration lanes and tapers shall be avoided due to the
potential for vehicular weaving conflicts.
         (c)   The length of driveways shall be designed in accordance with the
anticipated storage length for entering and exiting vehicles to prevent
vehicles from backing into the flow of traffic on the public street or causing
unsafe conflicts with on-site circulation.
      (21)   Existing access features.
         (a)   Permitted driveway connections and curb cuts on a state highway
in place as of adoption of the TSP that do not conform with the standards of
the Transportation System Plan shall be designated as conforming features and
will be reconsidered only if there is a change in use. At the time of
redevelopment, the city, in coordination with ODOT and property owner(s), will
evaluate the existing access for safety. If safety is compromised by the
existing driveway location, or by the change in use, then priority shall be
placed on providing access to property abutting a state highway from city
streets, combining driveways, or providing an access point in the middle of the
block.
         (b)   All existing local street connections to a state highway and the
historical grid pattern of 200 linear feet shall not be affected by the spacing
standards in the Transportation System Plan.
      (22)   New access features.
         (a)   New city street connections to a state highway within the
urbanizable portion of town shall be based on the existing street grid, Local
Street Plan and TSP policies.
         (b)   Each new urban area driveway access to a state highway will be
individually reviewed by the city with local notice provided to ODOT. New
urbanizable area drivesay connections to a state highway shall be at least 150
feet apart. The highest priority shall be placed on providing access to
property abutting a state highway from city streets, combining driveways, or
providing an access point in the middle of the block.
      (23)   Shared access. Proposed subdivisions with frontage on a state
highway system shall be designed to share access points from the highway. If
access from a city street is possible, the access should not be allowed onto a
state highway. If access from a city street becomes available, then conversion
to that access is encouraged, along with closing the state highway access.
Normally, a maximum of two accesses shall be allowed regardless of the number
of lots or businesses served.
      (24)   Connectivity.
         (a)   The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be designed to
coordinate with existing, proposed, and planned streets outside of the
subdivision as provided in this section.
         (b)   Wherever a proposed development abuts unplatted land or a future
development phase of the same development, street stubs shall be dedicated to
provide access to abutting properties or to logically extend the street system
into the surrounding area. All street stubs shall be dedicated with a temporary
turn-around unless specifically exempted by the city, and the restoration and
extension of the street shall be the responsibility of any future developer of
the existing land.
         (c)   Minor collector and local residential streets shall connect with
surrounding streets to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods or facilitate emergency access and evacuation.
Connections shall be designed to avoid or minimize through traffic on local
streets. Appropriate design and traffic control such as four-way stops and
traffic calming measures are the preferred means of discouraging through
traffic.
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial districts. Alleys may be required in
commercial and industrial districts, except that the Council may waive this
requirement where other definite and assured provision is made for service
access, such as off-street loading, or unloading and parking consistent with
and adequate for the uses proposed.
      (2)   Width. The right-of-way width of an alley shall be that width
determined necessary by the Council.
      (3)   Dead-end. Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted, except that the
Council may waive this requirement where the dead-end alley is unavoidable, and
where adequate turn-around facilities have been provided and signed for no
parking.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Provided for utilities. Easements with a right-of-way width
sufficient for utility maintenance may be required by the Council where
necessary for utilities.
      (2)   Providing for drainage.  Where a subdivision or partition is
traversed by a water course, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be
provided storm water or drainage easement conforming substantially with the
lines of the water course, and the further width of construction, or both, as
will be adequate for the purpose.
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   Factors governing dimensions. Block length and width or acreage
within bounding roads shall be such as to accommodate the size of parcel or lot
required in the area by Chapter 155, and to provide for convenient access,
circulation control and street traffic safety.
      (2)   Lengths. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,250 feet, or be less than
200 feet.
      (3)   Arrangement. A block shall generally be so designed as to provide
two rows of lots.
      (4)   Crosswalks. In blocks over 800 feet long, pedestrian crosswalks may
be required by the Council in locations, and of a design and dimension
determined desirable for public health, convenience and necessity.
   (E)   Lots and parcels.
      (1)   Dimensions. Lots or parcels shall not be less than the dimension
and area requirements of Chapter 155.
      (2)   Lot depth. Lots may be required by the Council to have a depth of
at least 200 feet if abutting land is utilized or suitable for agricultural
purposes.
      (3)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles to front and rear lot lines.
      (4)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential uses shall have extra
width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both
streets, as required by Chapter 155. Lots abutting on a pedestrian walkway
shall be treated as corner lots.
      (5)   Uninhabitable lots. Lots or parcels subject to flooding and lots
deemed by the Council to be undesirable for habituation shall not be plotted
for residential occupancy, nor for the other uses as may increase danger to
health, life or property or aggravate the flood hazard. The land within a plat
shall be combined with lots suitable for development, or shall be set aside for
the uses as will not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or will
not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
      (6)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over
after partition or subdivision of a larger tract must be added to adjacent
lots, rather than be allowed to remain as buildable parcels.
   (F)   Water distribution system.
      (1)    Prior to considering final approval of a partition or subdivision,
each parcel or lot shall be required to be provided with a water supply which
meets standards of the state.
      (2)   Fire protection system. Fire hydrants shall be required in all
subdivisions. The location and design shall be approved by the Council prior to
installation.
   (G)   Sewage disposal system.
      (1)   Prior to final approval of a partition or subdivision, each parcel
or lot shall be approved for sewage disposal or have sewerage service
available.
      (2)   Plans and specifications for providing sewage disposal to each lot
or parcel shall meet state and local requirements.
   (H)   Storm water runoff and flood control. Prior to considering final
approval of a partition or subdivision, the developer shall make drainage
improvements as needed to accommodate storm water runoff and minimize the
potential for flood damage.
   (I)   Park or recreation areas. In subdivisions of ten acres or more, and
where lots average less than 10,000 square feet, the Council may require the
developer to provide up to 5% of the total for park or recreation purposes.
These areas shall be of a design and location determined by the Council to be
suitable for the purposes.
   (J)   Sidewalk and bicycle trail improvements. Curbs and sidewalk
improvements may be required by the Commission and Council to be provided of
the design and location consistent with the Transportation System Plan. These
improvements may be considered by the Council to meet park or recreation area
requirements.
   (K)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed in all locations as required by
O.R.S. Chapter 92. Any monument which might be disturbed during construction
shall be properly replaced when the construction has been completed.
   (L)   Building sites. The following standards shall apply to building sites
and the access thereto.
      (1)   Size and shape. The size, width, shape and orientation of building
sites shall be appropriate for the location of the land division and for the
type of development and use contemplated, and shall be consistent with the
residential lot size provisions of the zoning ordinance with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   In areas that will not be served by a public sewer, minimum lot
and parcel sizes shall permit compliance with requirements of the Department of
Environmental Quality and shall take into consideration problems of sewage
disposal, particularly problems of soil structure and water table as related to
sewage disposal by septic tank; and
         (b)   Where property is zoned and planned for commercial or industrial
use, other widths and areas may be permitted at the discretion of the Council.
Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and
parking facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated.
      (2)   Cuts and fills. Shaping of building sites shall conform to the
following standards unless physical conditions demonstrate the propriety of
other standards:
         (a)   Cut slopes shall not exceed one and one-half feet horizontally
to one foot vertically;
         (b)   Fill slopes shall not exceed two feet horizontally to one foot
vertically; and
         (c)   The character of soil for fill and the characteristics of lots
and parcels made usable by fill shall be suitable for the purpose intended.
   (M)   Street signs. Street name signs shall be installed at all street
intersections. The location and design shall be approved by the Council prior
to installation.
   (N)   Street lights and utility services. Street lights and utility services
shall be installed according to location and design approved by the Council.
Utilities shall be served from an underground source wherever practical.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.11 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements in partitions. The same improvements shall be installed
to serve each building site if a partition is required of a subdivision.
   (B)   Improvement procedures. In addition to other requirements,
improvements installed by a developer either as a requirement of these
regulations or at his or her own options shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter and improvement standards or specifications adopted by the city
and shall be installed in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Improvement work shall not be commenced until plans have been
checked for adequacy and approved by the city. To the extent necessary for
evaluation of the proposal, the plans may be required as part of approval of
subdivision tentative plan approval;
      (2)   Improvements shall be constructed under the inspection and to the
satisfaction of the Council. The city may require changes in typical sections
and details if unusual conditions arise during construction to warrant the
change;
      (3)   Underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains installed
in streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of the streets. Stubs
for service connections for underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be
placed to a length minimizing the necessity for disturbing street improvements
when service connections are made; and
      (4)   A map showing public improvements as built shall be filed with the
city upon completion of the improvements.
   (C)   Cost allocation for improvements. All improvements shall be installed
at the expense of the developer. If water, sewer, storm water or drainage,
street or other improvements are required to be larger than necessary to serve
the development in order to provide service to abutting areas, if financially
feasible, the city may agree to pay the cost of additional materials required.
   (D)   Performance agreement. If all improvements required by the Planning
Commission in this chapter are not completed according to specifications prior
to the time the final plat is duly submitted for consideration and approval,
the Council may accept, in lieu of completion of improvements, a performance
agreement and one of the following:
      (1)   Financial surety.
         (a)   A bond executed by the developer and his or her surety company
including the city as a third party for bond release purposes, conditioned upon
faithful performance and completion of all such improvements within a period of
time stated in the performance agreement and approved by the Council;
         (b)   An agreement, duly signed and executed by the developer,
assigning his or her account in a legal savings institution in the State of
Oregon to the City of Union; and
         (c)   A cash deposit with the City of Union guaranteeing completion of
the improvements.
      (2)   The performance agreement shall contain the following procedures
and provisions relating to completion of the improvements.
         (a)   The developer’s engineer shall prepare cost estimates on
completion of roads and utilities. Road cost estimates shall be based upon road
standards as designated in this chapter. Sewer and water system improvement
estimates shall be based upon designs approved by the city or state. All cost
estimates shall be stamped or sealed by the engineer who prepared them.
         (b)   Estimates shall be submitted to the Council and shall be limited
to a maximum of one year for completion of improvements. If the improvements
are not completed within the specified time, the city may complete the work and
recover the full costs and expenses thereof from the developer. The agreement
may provide for the construction of the improvements in units and for an
extension of time under specified conditions. Minimum units prior to occupancy
will be the completion of one block of frontage.
         (c)   The Council may send cost estimates for review, as they deem
necessary.
         (d)   The bond or cash deposit shall be 25% greater than the estimated
cost of construction of the improvements. The Council shall notify the
developer as to the amount of the bond or cash deposit and other performance
agreement requirements as to any changes necessary for bond acceptance. The
performance agreement shall determine the completion required of utility
improvements before residents may occupy the development.
         (e)   The developer shall submit the bond, cash deposit or savings
account information and the performance agreement to the City Recorder.
         (f)   Release of the bond, or release of a portion of the cash deposit
or the savings account, may be made by Council action and in response to a
written request for the release upon determination that improvements have been
completed in accordance with the performance agreement.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.12 MODIFICATIONS.
   Modifications of the partition and subdivision dimension standards can, upon
application to the Commission, be approved to alleviate hardships, providing
all of the following conditions can be found to exist:
   (A)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property which
do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity, and as
a result from tract property size or shape, topography or other circumstances
over which the property owner(s) has had no control since enactment of this
chapter;
   (B)   The modification will be in accord with the purpose of this chapter;
   (C)   The interests of the public will be preserved, and the action(s) will
not set a trend; and
   (D)   The modification will be the minimum needed to alleviate the hardship
and will not result in an undesirable change in area land values or property
uses, or be otherwise injurious to other property in the area.
      (1)   In approving a modification, the Council may require the conditions
as determined desirable to insure that the purposes of this chapter will be
carried out, and that the modification(s) will be compatible with surrounding
area development.
      (2)   The Council shall deny application for modification(s) if all of
the conditions above are not found to exist.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization to initiate amendments. An amendment to the text of this
chapter may be initiated by the city or by application of a property owner or
his or her authorized agent.
   (B)   Application and fee. An amendment application by a property owner or
his or her authorized agent shall be filed with the Planning Administrator. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for by the Council.
   (C)   Amendment public hearing.
      (1)   Notice of time and place of the public hearing before the
Commission and the purpose of the proposed amendment shall be given by the city
as provided in O.R.S. 197.610 and 92.048 wherein it is indicated:
         (a)   A proposal to amend this chapter shall be submitted to the
Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development Director at least 45
days before the final Council hearing on adoption. The submitted proposal shall
contain four copies of the text and any supplemental information and the date
for the first evidentiary hearing on adoption. The Commission shall provide
notice at least ten days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the area in which land to be subject to the ordinance
or regulation is situated. The notice shall contain the time, place and purpose
of the hearing and a description of the land to be subject to the ordinance or
regulation.
      (2)   Recess of hearing. The Commission may recess a hearing in order to
obtain additional information. Upon recessing for this purpose, they shall
announce the time and date when the hearing will be resumed.
      (3)   Within 30 days after the Commission’s action they shall submit
their recommendations to the Council. The Council shall schedule a public
evidentiary hearing on the amendment, following the hearing procedures
described above.
   (D)   Record of amendment. The City Recorder shall maintain a record of
amendments to the text of this chapter in a form convenient for the use of the
public.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.14 FEES.
   For the purpose of partially defraying the expense involved in investigating
matters connected with application and appeals and the action taken thereon,
each activity initiated by property owners or the contract purchaser or an
authorized agent shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with a fee
schedule prepared by the Administrator and approved by Council resolution.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.15 APPEALS.
   Planning Administrator decisions may be appealed to the Commission and
Commission decisions may be appealed to the Council. Council decisions may be
appealed to the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.16 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   The Council shall be responsible for interpreting the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
    A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter is subject to a penalty of
up to $500 per day for violation, in addition to state and county court
assessments.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge may promulgate an alternate bail schedule for
certain offenses at his or her discretion.
(Ord. 418, passed 3-12-1990; Ord. 481, passed 9-13-2004)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authority
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Coordination with specialty codes adopted by the State Building Codes
Division
   
153.09   Establishment of a development permit
   
153.10   Interpretation
   
153.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Administration
   
153.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.31   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator
   
153.32   Development permit
   
153.33   Watercourse alterations
   
153.34   Requirement to submit new technical data
   
153.35   Non-conversion of enclosed areas below the lowest floor
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.50   Site improvements and subdivisions
   
153.51   Development in regulatory floodways
   
153.52   Zones with base flood elevations but not a regulatory floodway
   
153.53   Special flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
   
153.54   Building design and construction
   
153.55   Below grade crawlspaces
   
153.56   Recreational vehicles
   
153.57   Temporary structures and temporary storage in A1-A30 and AE Zones with
a floodway
   
153.58   Essential facilities
   
153.59   Tanks
   
153.60   Fencing
   
153.61   Development, including accessory structures, in non-coastal special
flood hazard areas (all A Zones)
Variance Procedures and Criteria
   
153.75   Variance
   
153.76   Criteria for variances
   
153.77   Variance decision
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Specific building design and construction standards
   
Appendix B: Guidance concerning fencing and walls in special flood hazard areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The state has delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the city, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
that results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in flood hazard
areas causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   The city has the primary responsibility for planning, adoption, and
enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper management of special
flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The objectives of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   Protect human life, health, and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges that are located in areas
of special flood hazard;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue, emergency services, and relief
associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general
public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions, unnecessary disruption of
commerce, access, and public service during times of flood;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard;
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy within the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions; and
   (I)   Manage the alteration of areas of special flood hazard, stream
channels, and shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural
and beneficial functions.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Require development that is vulnerable to floods, including structures
and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare of
citizens, to be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters; and
   (F)   Coordinate with and supplement provisions of state specialty codes
enforced by the State Building Codes Division.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the interpretation of any provision of this
chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or Zone AH on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding
in any given year. Zone AO has an average base flood depth of one to three
feet; a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Zone
AO is characterized as sheetflow; Zone AH indicates ponding and is shown with
base flood elevations.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD is synonymous with SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The
SFHA is shown on flood insurance rate maps and includes the letters A and V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation during the base
flood in relation to a specified datum. The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) is
depicted on the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1
foot. BFE includes base flood depth as used for Zone AO.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW-GRADE CRAWLSPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade does not exceed two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade, and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawlspace to the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the
lowest floor, does not exceed four feet at any point.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended, through its design and construction, to collapse
under specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
   COMMUNITY. Any area or political subdivision thereof which has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas within its
jurisdiction.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter from FEMA commenting on
whether a proposed project, if built as proposed, would meet the minimum NFIP
standards or proposed hydrology changes. If the project, built as proposed,
revises the flood insurance rate map and/or flood insurance study, a LOMR is
required to be submitted no later than six months after project completion.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. See ESSENTIAL FACILITY.
   DATUM. The vertical control DATUM from which all vertical elevations are
determined. Historically, flood insurance rate maps have used the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929. The vertical datum currently adopted by the
federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, fencing, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials located within the area of special flood
hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The activities or construction within the floodway including,
fill, excavation, grading, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development.
   ESSENTIAL FACILITY or CRITICAL FACILITY. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Hospitals and other medical facilities having surgery and emergency
treatment areas;
      (2)   Fire and police stations;
      (3)   Tanks or other structures containing, housing, or supporting water
or fire-suppression materials, or equipment required for the protection of
essential or hazardous facilities or special occupancy structures;
      (4)   Emergency vehicle shelters and garages;
      (5)   Structures and equipment in emergency-preparedness centers;
      (6)   Standby power generating equipment for essential facilities; and
      (7)   Structures and equipment in government communication centers and
other facilities required for emergency response.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   Overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   Unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the special flood hazard
areas and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report by the Federal Insurance
Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles,
regulatory floodway boundaries, and water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and those portions of the land areas adjacent to the channel that must be
reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than a designated height (usually the
designated height is one foot, however, some communities may be more
restrictive).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate and instructions, FEMA Form 81-31, Section
C, for additional information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places which
have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is
not considered a structure's lowest floor provided that the enclosed area is
built and maintained in accordance with the applicable design requirements of
the Oregon Specialty Codes and this chapter. The lowest floor of a structure in
a V Zone is measured from the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member
supporting the structure.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
   OREGON SPECIALTY CODES or STATE SPECIALTY CODES. The combined specialty
codes adopted under O.R.S. 446.062, 446.185, 447.020(2), 455.020(2), 455.496,
455.610, 455.680, 460.085, 460.360, 479.730(1), or 480.545, but does not
include regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to O.R.S.
Chapter 476 or O.R.S. 479.015 to 479.200. and 479.210 to 479.220. The combined
specialty codes are often referred to as building codes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Zones on flood insurance rate maps that depict
the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a 1% or greater chance
of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous with
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS on flood insurance
rate maps always include the letters A or V.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
(Note: building permits in Oregon expire if work isn’t started within 180 days
from the date of issue. Once works has begun, permits expire if work is
suspended or abandoned for 180 days or more. Building permits may be extended
for an additional 180-day period.)
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured dwelling, a modular
or temporary building, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally
above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred. (Note:
communities may define SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE as less
than 50% of the market value of the structure. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE may also be accumulated over time.)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE, regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The market value of the structure is:
         (a)   The real market value of the structure prior to the start of the
initial repair or improvement; or
         (b)   In the case of damage, the real market value of the structure
prior to the damage occurring.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from any requirement of this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance with this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER DEPENDENT USE. A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not include
long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to a specific datum, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. The channel and banks of an identifiable channel, and not the
adjoining floodplain areas. The flood carrying capacity of a watercourse refers
to the flood carrying capacity of the channel (except in the case of alluvial
fans, where a channel is not typically defined).
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city. Nothing in this chapter is intended to allow uses or
structures that are otherwise prohibited by
Chapter 155 or state specialty codes.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The area of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its flood insurance study (FIS) for the city dated
December 15, 1978, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) or
digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), are adopted by reference and
declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office
of the City of Union at 342 S. Main Street, Union, Oregon, 97883.
   (B)   Areas of special flood hazard are depicted on FIRMs and DFIRMs as
special flood hazard areas (SFHA). When the base flood elevation has not been
identified, the best available information for flood hazard area as identified
in §
153.53 shall be the basis for regulation.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.08 COORDINATION WITH SPECIALTY CODES ADOPTED BY THE STATE BUILDING CODES
DIVISION.
   Pursuant to the requirement established in O.R.S. Ch. 455 that the city has
a joint management agreement with the Union County Building Department who
administers and enforces the state specialty codes, the city does hereby
acknowledge that the state specialty codes contain certain provisions that
apply to the design and construction of buildings and structures located in
special flood hazard areas. Therefore, this chapter is intended to be
administered and enforced in conjunction with the state specialty codes.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required prior to initiating development
activities in any special flood hazard area established in §
153.07. The permit shall be for all proposed development as defined in §
153.05, including the placement of manufactured dwellings.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes, including state specialty codes.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Insurance Administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, state specialty code easement, covenant, or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator and City Planner are hereby appointed as the
Floodplain Administrator who is responsible for administering and implementing
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.31 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited
to:
   (A)   Review all proposed construction and other development, including the
placement of manufactured dwellings, to determine whether such construction or
other development will be located in special flood hazard areas or other flood-
prone areas;
   (B)   Review permit applications for new development or modifications of any
existing development in special flood hazard areas for compliance with the
requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal, state, or local government. Copies of such permits shall be
maintained on file;
   (D)   Review all development permit applications to determine if proposed
development is located in the regulatory floodway, and if so, ensure that the
encroachment standards of §
153.51 are met;
   (E)   When base flood elevation data or data have not been provided in §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other authoritative source in order to administer the provisions of
this chapter;
   (F)   When base flood elevations are not available:
      (1)   Review proposed development to determine whether development
proposals are reasonably safe from flooding as provided in 44 CFR Part 60.3(a)
(4) (44 CFR Part 65.2 defines “reasonably safe from flooding” as base flood
waters will not inundate the land or damage structures...and that any waters
related to the base flood will not damage existing or proposed buildings);
      (2)   Review all development permits for all new subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including proposals for manufactured home parks
and subdivisions) greater than five acres or 50 lots, whichever is the lesser,
to ensure a base flood elevation has been established according to 44 CFR Part
60.3(b)(3);
   (G)   Where a determination is needed of the exact location of boundaries of
the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the Floodplain
Administrator shall make a determination. Any person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
determination as provided in section;
   (H)   Issue development permits when the provisions of this chapter have
been met, or deny the same in the event of noncompliance;
   (I)   Coordinate with the Building Official to ensure that applications for
building permits comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (J)   Obtain, verify, and record the actual elevation in relation to the
vertical datum used on the effective FIRM, or in relation to the highest
adjacent grade where no base flood elevation is available, of the lowest floor
level, including basement, of all new construction or substantially improved
structures, including manufactured dwellings, that are located in non-coastal
special flood hazard areas;
   (K)   Obtain, verify, and record the actual elevation of finished
construction, in relation to the vertical datum used on the effective FIRM, or
highest adjacent grade where no base flood elevation is available, to which a
new or substantially improved non-residential structure located in a non-
coastal special flood hazard area has been flood-proofed. When flood-proofing
is utilized for a non-residential structure, the Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) which has been signed and
sealed by a registered professional engineer or architect;
   (L)   Obtain, verify, and record the actual elevation in relation to the
vertical datum used on the effective FIRM, or in relation to the highest
adjacent grade where no base flood elevation is available, of the bottom of the
lowest structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and columns) of
all new construction or substantially improved structures, including
manufactured dwellings that are located in coastal special flood hazard areas
(all V Zones);
   (M)   Ensure that all records and certifications pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter are permanently maintained in City Hall and
available for public inspection;
   (N)   Make periodic inspections of special flood hazard areas to establish
that development activities are being performed in compliance with this
chapter, and to verify that existing buildings and structures maintain
compliance with this chapter;
   (O)   Coordinate with the Building Official to inspect areas where buildings
and structures in special flood hazard areas have been damaged, regardless of
the cause of damage, and notify owners that permits may be required to repair,
rehabilitate, demolish, relocate, or reconstruct structures; and
   (P)   Make substantial improvement and/or substantial damage determinations
for all structures located in special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.32 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained prior to start of all proposed
construction and other development including the placement of manufactured
homes within any special flood hazard area in accordance with 44 CFR Part 60.3
(b)(1).
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator or designee on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator or
designee prior to starting development activities. Specifically, the following
information is required:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area and the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment, and drainage
facilities (Oregon Residential Specialty Code § R106.5 requires one set to be
retained and the second to be returned to the applicant);
      (2)   Delineation of special flood hazard areas, regulatory floodway
boundaries, including base flood elevations, or flood depth in AO Zones, where
available as provided in Oregon Residential Specialty Code § R106.1.3;
      (3)   For all proposed structures, elevation in relation to the highest
adjacent grade and the base flood elevation, or flood depth in AO Zones, of
the:
         (a)   Lowest enclosed area including crawlspace or basement floor as
required by Oregon Residential Specialty Code § R106.1.3;
         (b)   Top of the proposed garage slab, if any; and
         (c)   Next highest floor.
      (4)   Locations and sizes of all flood openings, if required, in any
proposed structure;
      (5)   The proposed elevation to which a non-residential structure will be
flood-proofed or elevated;
      (6)   Specifications for any proposed flood-proofing of non-residential
structures and an indication that the proposed flood-proofing will be certified
by a professional engineer or architect prior to issuance of the development
permit;
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of a proposed development (see division (C) of this
section); and
      (8)   Evidence that all necessary permits can be obtained from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law.
   (C)   No development permit shall be issued until compliance with this
chapter and other applicable codes and regulations has been demonstrated.
Specifically, the following documentation is required prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
      (1)   Evidence that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law;
      (2)   A FEMA-approved CLOMR if the project will cause a watercourse
alteration, modify base flood elevation, or change the boundaries of the
floodway or special flood hazard area;
      (3)   A completed pre-construction elevation certificate signed and
sealed by a registered professional surveyor; and
      (4)   Certification from a registered professional engineer or architect
that any proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-
proofing criteria of the NFIP and state specialty codes.
   (D)   During construction.
      (1)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit
holder shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator an as-built certification
of the floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest
floor or flood-proofing is placed and prior to further vertical construction.
      (2)   Any deficiencies identified by the Floodplain Administrator shall
be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to work proceeding.
Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections shall be
cause for the Floodplain Administrator to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
   (E)   Finished construction.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of the state specialty codes
pertaining to certificate of occupancy, and prior to the final inspection, the
owner or authorized agent shall submit the following documentation for finished
construction that has been signed and sealed by a registered surveyor or
engineer:
         (a)   For elevated buildings and structures in non-coastal special
flood hazard areas (all A Zones), the elevation of the lowest floor, including
basement, or where no base flood elevation is available, the height above
highest adjacent grade of the lowest floor;
         (b)   For non-residential buildings and structures that have been
flood-proofed, the elevation to which the building or structure was flood-
proofed.
      (2)   Failure to submit certification or failure to correct violations
shall be cause for the Floodplain Administrator to withhold a certificate of
occupancy until such deficiencies are corrected.
   (F)   Expiration of development permit. Development permits issued under
this chapter shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is
commenced within 180 days after issuance or the work is suspended or abandoned
for a period of 180 days after the work commences. Extensions for periods of
not more than 180 days each shall be requested in writing and shall be reviewed
against the current FIRM and this chapter.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.33 WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Development shall not diminish the flood carrying capacity of a
watercourse. If any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development the applicant must submit certification by a registered
professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will
not be diminished.
   (B)   Applicant will be responsible for obtaining all necessary permits from
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal, state, or
local law, including, but not limited to, § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334; the Endangered Species Act of
1973, 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 through 1544; and State of Oregon Division of State
Lands regulations.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall notify adjacent communities and
State Department of Land Conservation and Development prior to any alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. Copies of such notification shall be
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall assure that maintenance for the
altered or relocated portion of the water course is provided so that the flood
carrying capacity will not be diminished. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to perform required maintenance. To accomplish this, the
Administrator shall require the applicant to file a new deed for the subject
property that lists the requirement for maintenance in detail as a liability
for the property.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator technical
data as set forth in § 153.34 prior to any watercourse alteration that will
result in the expansion, relocation, or elimination of the special flood hazard
area
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.34 REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   (A)   Within six months of project completion, an applicant who obtains a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA, or whose development
alters a watercourse, modifies floodplain boundaries or base flood elevations,
shall obtain from FEMA a letter of map revision (LOMR) reflecting the as-built
changes to the FIS and/or FIRM.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
prepared in a format required for a CLOMR or LOMR and to submit such data to
FEMA on the appropriate FEMA Form MT-2 application forms. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
   (C)   Applicants shall be responsible for all costs associated with
obtaining a CLOMR or LOMR from FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Any/all additional cost/charges shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.35 NON-CONVERSION OF ENCLOSED AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.
   To ensure that enclosed areas below the lowest floor continue to be used
solely for parking vehicles, limited storage, or access to the building, and
not be finished for use as human habitation, recreation, bathrooms, or the
like, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are five
feet or higher; and
   (B)   Enter into a non-conversion deed declaration for construction within
flood hazard areas, or equivalent, with the city. The deed declaration shall be
recorded with the Union County Clerk. The deed declaration shall be in a form
acceptable to the Floodplain Administrator and County Counsel.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
§ 153.50 SITE IMPROVEMENTS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Where special flood hazard areas have not been defined within the
community or a base flood elevation has not been provided, all plans and
permits for proposed construction of subdivisions, placement of manufactured
homes, or other development shall be consistent with the need to ensure that
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding (44 CFR Part 65.2 defines
“reasonably safe from flooding” as base flood waters will not inundate the land
or damage structures...and that any subsurface waters related to the base flood
will not damage existing or proposed buildings). The test of reasonableness is
a local judgment and includes historical data, high water marks, photographs of
past flooding, and the like.
   (B)   Building lots shall have adequate buildable area outside of regulatory
floodways.
   (C)   Where base flood elevation has not been provided, it shall be
generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or
five acres (whichever is the lesser).
   (D)   Site improvements, subdivisions, and manufactured home parks shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage and
infiltration of flood waters into the systems. Replacement public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electric, and water systems, shall likewise be
sited and designed to minimize or eliminate damage and infiltration of flood
waters.
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems. New and replacement
sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters in the systems and discharges from the systems
into flood waters. Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
functional impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards as provided in 44 CFR Part 60.3(a)(4). In AO and AH
Zones, drainage paths shall be provided to guide flood water around and away
from proposed structures.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.51 DEVELOPMENT IN REGULATORY FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B), encroachments, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements, fences, or other development are
prohibited in the regulatory floodway unless certification by a registered
professional civil engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that such encroachment will not result in any increase in flood levels during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (A)(1) is met, any fill permitted to be placed in the
regulatory floodway shall be designed to be stable under conditions of
flooding, including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of flood waters, prolonged
inundation, and flood-related erosion and scour.
      (3)   Upon demonstration of no other alternative, applicants shall obtain
a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA before an encroachment,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvement, fences, or other
development, in the regulatory floodway is permitted that will cause any
increase in the base flood elevation unless the development causes a temporary
encroachment and the conditions in division (B)(1) below are satisfied. Upon
completion of the project, but not later than six months after the project
completion, a letter of map revision shall be submitted to FEMA to reflect the
changes on the FIRM and/or FIS.
   (B)   Exceptions. 
      (1)   Temporary encroachments in the regulatory floodway for the purposes
of capital improvement projects (including bridge construction/repair) must
have a development permit issued. This includes ensuring that all other
required permits and permissions are obtained from federal, state, and local
agencies.
         (a)   The permit should stipulate the days and dates the structure or
other development will be on site. If a longer period is required, a new permit
should be issued.
         (b)   A flood warning system for the project should be in place to
allow equipment to be evacuated from the site and placed outside the
floodplain.
         (c)   Placement of equipment in the floodway should be restricted to
only that equipment which is absolutely necessary for the purposes of the
project. All other accessory equipment and temporary structures (for example,
construction trailers) shall be restricted from the floodway. Structures should
be placed on site so that flood damages are minimized. The community may want
to consider such things as anchoring construction trailers in case evacuation
isn’t practical.
         (d)   The following conditions shall be included in the permit:
            1.   Identification of the temporary changes to the floodplain
under a 1% chance flood event (100-year flood);
            2.   Identification of all insurable structures affected by any
increase in BFE during a 1% chance flood event (100-year flood);
            3.   Written notification to the applicant that they may be liable
for any flood damages resulting from the temporary structure; and
            4.   The length of time the structure or encroachment will be
allowed.
         (e)   No CLOMR/LOMR will be required because there is no need to
modify the FIRM due to the temporary condition of the encroachment, but the
community should disclose to all owners of insurable structures and all
applicants for permits in the affected area that there is an increased risk of
flooding for the duration of the temporary encroachment.
      (2)   If the temporary encroachment results in an increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge, a CLOMR is not
required to be obtained when:
         (a)   The project is limited as to duration with the days and dates
that the structure or other development will be on site specified in the
development permit. If a longer period is required, a new permit should be
issued;
         (b)   All other accessory equipment and temporary structures (for
example, construction trailers) are restricted from the regulatory floodway;
         (c)   The project limits placement of equipment and material in the
regulatory floodway to that which is absolutely necessary for the purposes of
the project;
         (d)   Structures shall be placed on site so the flood damages are
minimized;
         (e)   The project includes a flood warning system sufficient to allow
equipment to be evacuated from the regulatory floodway and placed outside the
area of special flood hazard in the event of imminent flood;
         (f)   The project applicant identifies insurable structures affected
by any increase in base flood elevation. The community should disclose to all
owners of insurable structures and all applicants for permits in the affected
area that there is an increased risk of flooding for the duration of the
temporary encroachment; and
         (g)   The project applicant is provided with written notification that
they may be liable for any flood damages resulting from the temporary
encroachment.
      (3)   Projects for stream habitat restoration may be allowed without
certification by a registered professional civil engineer provided:
         (a)   A development permit is obtained prior to initiating development
activities;
         (b)   The project qualifies for a Department of the Army, Portland
District Regional General Permit for Stream Habitat Restoration (NWP-2007-
1023);
         (c)   A qualified professional (a registered professional engineer;
staff of NRCS; the county; or fisheries, natural resources, or water resources
agencies) has provided a feasibility analysis and certification that the
project was designed to keep any rise in 100-year flood levels as close to zero
as practically possible given the goals of the project;
         (d)   No structures would be impacted by a potential rise in flood
elevation; and
         (e)   An agreement to monitor the project, correct problems, and
ensure that flood carrying capacity remains unchanged is included as part of
the local approval.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.52 ZONES WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT NOT A REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   (A)   In areas within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM with a base
flood elevation but where no regulatory floodway has been designated, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be prohibited, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (B)   Applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood elevation
more than one foot shall obtain from FEMA a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) before the project may be permitted. As soon as possible, but no later
than six months after project completion, an application for a letter of map
revision (LOMR) shall be submitted by the applicant to FEMA. The applicant is
responsible for paying any costs associated with the CLOMR and LOMR process.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.53 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   When special flood hazard areas have been provided by FEMA on flood
insurance rate maps, but base flood elevations have not been provided, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Require that a base flood elevation be generated whenever
development is proposed on greater than 50 lots or five acres (whichever is the
lesser); or
      (2)   If 50 lots or less, or five acres or less (whichever is the
lesser), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize scientific or historic base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer this chapter. If base flood elevations are not
available, and are not required to be generated, division (C) below shall
apply.
   (B)   When the Floodplain Administrator has obtained base flood elevations,
§§
153.52 and
153.54 through
153.61 shall apply.
   (C)   In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevations, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No encroachments, including structures or fill, shall be located in
an area of special flood hazard within an area equal to the width of the stream
or 50 feet, whichever is greater, measured from the ordinary high water mark,
unless a base flood elevation is developed by a licensed professional engineer;
or
      (2)   The lowest floor of any building or structure, including the bottom
of the longitudinal chassis frame beam of the manufactured dwelling, shall be
elevated a minimum of three feet above highest adjacent grade. Below grade
crawlspaces are prohibited.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.54 BUILDING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   Buildings and structures, including manufactured dwellings, within the scope
of the state specialty codes, including repair of substantial damage and
substantial improvement of existing buildings and structures, shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the flood-resistant construction provisions
of these codes, including, but not limited to, the Residential Specialty Code,
the Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code, and the Structural
Specialty Code.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.55 BELOW GRADE CRAWLSPACES.
   (A)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required openings stated in division (B) below. Because of hydrodynamic
loads, crawlspace construction is not recommended in areas with flood
velocities greater than five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a
qualified design professional, such as a registered architect or professional
engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended for these areas.
   (B)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation and,
as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of flood waters. The bottom of each flood vent opening
can be no more than one foot above the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
   (C)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and all insulation
above BFE.
   (D)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that flood waters cannot enter or accumulate within
the system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must
either be placed above the BFE or sealed from flood waters.
   (E)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than
two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
   (F)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the bottom of the structural support of the next
higher floor must not exceed four feet at any point.
   (G)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes flood waters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage system will
vary because of the site gradient and other drainage characteristics, such as
soil types. Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-
drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles, or
gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
   (H)   The velocity of flood waters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.56 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   In all special flood hazard areas, recreational vehicles that are an allowed
use or structure under
Chapter 155 must either:
   (A)   Be placed on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Shall:
      (1)   Meet the development permit requirements of §§
153.32 and
153.50 through
153.61, the manufactured home requirement in the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling
Installation Specialty Code, and be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the bottom of the vehicle chassis is elevated to or above base flood
elevation; and
      (2)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. Permanently placed recreational vehicles shall, in addition, meet the
requirements of §
153.61(A).
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.57 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND TEMPORARY STORAGE IN A1-A30 AND AE ZONES WITH
A FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Temporary structures placed in the floodway. Relief from no-rise
evaluation, elevation, or dry flood-proofing standards may be granted for a
non-residential structure placed during the dry season (June through October)
and for a period of less than 90 days. A plan for the removal of the temporary
structure after the dry season or when a flood event threatens shall be
provided. The plan shall include disconnecting and protecting from water
infiltration and damage all utilities servicing the temporary structure.
   (B)   Temporary storage (temporary storage does not include hazardous
materials) in the floodway. Temporary storage of goods and materials is allowed
in the floodway for a period of less than 90 days within the dry season (June
through October).
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.58 ESSENTIAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Construction of new essential facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area.
Construction of new essential facilities shall be permissible within the
special flood hazard area if no feasible alternative site is available. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances or
priority organic pollutants as defined by the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality will not be displaced by or released into flood waters.
The lowest floor shall be elevated three feet above the base flood elevation or
to the height of the 500-year flood, whichever is higher. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all essential facilities to the maximum extent possible.
   (B)   New essential and new special occupancy structures may not be
constructed in the Tsunami Inundation Zone. If an exception is granted then the
Coastal High Hazard Area construction standards shall apply.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.59 TANKS.
   (A)   New and replacement tanks in flood hazard areas either shall be
elevated above the base flood elevation on a supporting structure designed to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement during conditions of the base
flood, or be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy assuming
the tank is empty, during conditions of the design flood.
   (B)   New and replacement tank inlets, fill openings, outlets, and vents
shall be placed a minimum of two feet above base flood elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of flood water or outflow of the contents
of the tank during conditions of the design flood.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.60 FENCING.
   New and replacement fencing shall be designed to collapse under conditions
of the base flood or to allow the passage of water by having flaps or openings
in the areas at or below the base flood elevation sufficient to allow flood
water and associated debris to pass freely. Fencing located in the regulatory
floodway shall meet the requirements of §
153.51.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.61 DEVELOPMENT, INCLUDING ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, IN NON-COASTAL SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (ALL A ZONES).
   (A)   All development (including substantial improvements) in non-coastal
high hazard areas (all A Zones) for which provisions are not specified in this
chapter or state specialty codes shall:
      (1)   Be located and constructed to have low damage potential;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   If located in a regulatory floodway, meet the limitations of §
153.51;
      (4)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood;
      (5)   Have all enclosures below the base flood elevation designed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the
automatic entry and exit of flood water. Designs for complying with this
requirement must be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect,
or:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below
the opening; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood water in
both directions without manual intervention;
      (6)   Have electrical and other service facilities located and installed
so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (B)   Walled and roofed accessory structures, including substantial
improvement to existing accessory structures, shall meet the requirements of
division (A) above and shall:
      (1)   Be less than 200 square feet and not exceed one story;
      (2)   Have unfinished interiors and not be temperature controlled;
      (3)   Not be used for human habitation and may be used solely for parking
of vehicles or storage of items having low damage potential when submerged; and
      (4)   Not be used to store toxic material, oil or gasoline, or any
priority persistent pollutant identified by the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality, unless confined in a tank installed in compliance with
this chapter or stored at least one foot above base flood elevation.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
§ 153.75 VARIANCE.
   (A)   An application for a variance must be submitted to the city on the
form provided by the city and include at a minimum the same information
required for a development permit and an explanation for the basis for the
variance request.
   (B)   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the
criteria set out herein is on the applicant. See variance procedure for
directions.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a permanent record of all
variances and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.76 CRITERIA FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, in conformance with divisions (H)(1) through (H)(10). As the lot
size increases the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for a water dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria of divisions (A) through (D) of this section are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Statewide Inventory of Historic Properties, without regard to the
procedures set forth in this section.
   (G)   Variances as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
or property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic, or financial circumstances. They
primarily address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As
such, variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
   (H)   In passing upon such applications, the city shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.77 VARIANCE DECISION.
   If the variance is approved, the community shall notify the applicant in
writing over the signature of a community official that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance and that such construction below
the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in
accordance with the minimum fine schedule for the city. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
APPENDIX A: SPECIFIC BUILDING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   In all special flood hazard areas.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   (B)   Specific building design and construction standards for non-coastal
residential construction (all A Zones) in addition to division (A).
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of residential
structures located in non-coastal flood zones shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or three feet above highest adjacent grade where no BFE is defined.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvement that have fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement andare
subject to flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be either
be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect and must meet
or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade, and;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (C)   Specific building design and construction standards for non-coastal,
non-residential construction. In addition to division (A), new construction and
substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
according to Table 2-1 the American Society of Civil Engineers, Flood Resistant
Design and Construction Standard (ASCE 24); or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications, and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator;
      (4)   Non-residential structures that are elevated, not flood-proofed,
must meet residential standards described in §
153.54; and
      (5)   Applicants flood-proofing non-residential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the flood-proofed level (for example, a building flood-proofed to the
base flood level will be rated as one foot below).
   (D)   Specific building design and construction standards for manufactured
dwellings, non-coastal. In addition to divisions (A) and (B)(2), new,
replacement, and substantially improved manufactured dwellings are subject to
the following standards:
      (1)   If the manufactured dwelling is supported on solid foundation
walls, the ground area reserved for the placement of a manufactured dwelling
shall be a minimum of one foot above BFE unless the foundation walls are
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade, and;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (2)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A Zones, shall
be at or above BFE (see Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code
Interpretation dated January 1, 2011).
      (3)   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors (see FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas
Guidebook for additional techniques); and
      (4)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE (see Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code 6-4.1(1)).
   (E)   Standards for shallow flooding areas (AO Zones). Shallow flooding
areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations that range from one
to three feet above ground where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be
evident. Such flooding is often characterized as sheetflow. In these areas
division (A) of this appendix and the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures and manufactured homes within AO Zones shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building,
a minimum of one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM (at least
three feet above HAG if no depth number is specified). See Oregon Residential
Specialty Code R324.2.1, and 44 CFR Part 60.3(c)(7).
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, one foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM (at least three feet above HAG if no depth number
is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
(Ord. 527, passed 1-14-2013)
APPENDIX B: GUIDANCE CONCERNING FENCING AND WALLS IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS.
   Fencing and walls located in the special flood hazard are require floodplain
development permits, unless they are considered de minimis development as
defined by local ordinance.
 
              Fencing and walls allowed?
Fence or Wall Floodway Fringe  Regulatory Shallow/Sheetflow/ Coastal Velocity
Type          (Riverine)       Floodway   Ponding Zones      Zones
                               (Riverine)
                Fencing and walls allowed?
Fence or Wall   Floodway Fringe Regulatory      Shallow/        Coastal
Type            (Riverine)      Floodway        Sheetflow/      Velocity Zones
                                (Riverine)      Ponding Zones
Open barb or
barbless wire.
Open means no
more than one   Yes             Yes             Yes             Yes
horizontal
strand per foot
of height
Open pipe or
rail fencing
(for example,
corrals). Open
means rails
occupy less                     Yes, with
than 10% of the Yes             limited cross   Yes             Yes
fence area and                  channel fencing
posts are
spaced no
closer than
eight feet
apart
Collapsible     Design review   Design review   Design review   Design review
fencing         required1       required1       required1       required1
Other wire,                                                     Yes, if
pipe, or rail                                                   installed
fencing (for    Yes, if open at                 Yes, if open at parallel to
example, field  base to BFE     No2             base to BFE     shore,
fence, chicken                                                  otherwise
wire, and the                                                   design review
like)                                                           required
                                                                Yes, if
                                                                installed
Chain link      Yes, if open at                 Yes, if open at parallel to
fencing         base to BFE     No2             base to BFE     shore,
                                                                otherwise
                                                                design review
                                                                required
                Yes, if                         Yes, if
Continuous wood adequate        No2             adequate        Design review
fencing         openings at                     openings at     required3
                base to BFE                     base to BFE
                Yes, if                         Yes, if
Masonry walls   adequate        No2             adequate        Design review
                openings at                     openings at     required3
                base to BFE                     base to BFE
Retaining       Yes, if                         Yes, if
walls,          adequate        No2             adequate        No
bulkheads       openings at                     openings at
                base to BFE                     base to BFE
1 Ensure fence will collapse under anticipated base flood conditions. Debris
impact must be considered.
2 Unless shown, using FEMA-approved engineering/modeling standards, to cause
no rise in BFE.
3 Fences and walls in V zone must be analyzed for their effects on flood
conditions, including ramping effects on adjacent buildings and effects of
debris during flood events (TB 5).
 
CHAPTER 154: TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Establishment of trailer parks
   
154.03   Expansion; resumption
   
154.04   Annual license fee
   
154.05   Rates parking outside of trailer parks
   
154.06   Unoccupied trailer coach
   
154.07   Permit to temporarily park an occupied visitor’s trailer
   
154.08   Nontransferability prior to issuance of permit
   
154.09   Liability of owner or occupant of stored or parked trailer coach
   
154.10   Non-issuance of permit
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation.
   TRAILER COACH. A portable structure or vehicle so constructed and designed
as to permit occupancy for sleeping or living purposes. It may be propelled by
its own power or other power-driven vehicle. Removal of the wheels will not
remove the TRAILER COACH from the meaning of this chapter.
   TRAILER PARK. A plot of ground providing rental space for trailer coach
parking, the owner or operator of which has obtained a license from the Union
County Health Department to operate the same, as provided under the laws of the
State of Oregon regulating trailer parks.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967)
§ 154.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAILER PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a trailer park
within the city limits of the City of Union without a license to operate the
same as herein provided.
   (A)   Any person desiring to maintain or operate a trailer park shall make
written application accompanied with an application fee of $10,which shall be
in addition to the annual license fee herein provided, to the City Council of
the City of Union, which shall refer the application to the Planning Commission
for recommendations as to whether the application shall be approved or
disapproved.
   (B)   The application shall contain the name of the person desiring to
maintain and operate the trailer park, the number of trailer coach parking
units, the location and area of the proposed trailer park, the location and
size of the trailer coach parking units therein, the arrangement and location
of sanitary, water and electrical facilities to be provided therein and other
information as the Planning Commission may by order require.
   (C)   Before recommending approval or disapproval of the application to the
City Council, the Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Determine that the application meets the standards of the Oregon
Health Division and has the approval of the Union County Health Department; and
      (2)   Call a public hearing to be held not less than two weeks nor more
than one month after receipt of the application. This hearing to be a public
hearing on the matter of granting the application. At the hearing, any person
residing or owning real property within 600 feet from the proposed trailer park
may be heard for or against the application, and the Planning Commission’s
recommendation of approval or disapproval of the granting of the license. If
any objections or remonstrances be made at the hearing against the
recommendation for approval, the Planning Commission may recommend that the
application be denied. Not less than ten days prior to any hearing, the City
Recorder shall post or cause to be posted written notice of the hearing in not
less than four conspicuous places within 600 feet of the proposed site.
   (D)   The recommendation of the Planning Commission either approving or
disapproving the application shall be transmitted to the City Council to be
considered by the City Council at its next regular meeting after the hearing
before the Planning Commission, and any person or persons who desire to appear
for or against the Planning Commission’s recommendation shall appear before the
City Council at the time. The City Council may, in its discretion, accept or
reject the Planning Commission’s recommendation.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 EXPANSION; RESUMPTION.
   (A)   The same procedure for obtaining a license to operate a trailer park
shall be followed before the number of trailers in each parking unit in any
camp may be increased in number before the reestablishment of any trailer park
which has been discontinued and not in operation for a period of more than six
months.
   (B)   Any trailer park existing prior to the passage of this chapter shall
be granted a license and allowed to continue to operate without the necessity
of making application to the City Council as herein provided; provided, it
meets the requirements of the laws of the State of Oregon governing tourist and
trailer camps and the rules and regulations of the Oregon State Health
Division, of the Union County Health Department pertaining thereto and the
Building, Fire and Electrical Codes of the City of Union.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967)
§ 154.04 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for trailer parks shall be the sum of $1 per
available trailer coach space for each calendar year, but not less than $5 for
each park.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967)
§ 154.05 RATES PARKING OUTSIDE OF TRAILER PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, locate, keep or maintain an
occupied trailer coach, except an occupied visitor’s trailer under the
provisions of §
154.07, without a permit as herein provided.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to park, locate, keep or maintain an
occupied trailer coach shall apply for a variance permit with the city. Such
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The application for the variance permit shall contain the name of
the person desiring to park, locate, keep or maintain such trailer coach, the
arrangement and location of sanitary, water and electrical facilities to be
provided therein, identify the location of the unit and such other information
as the City Planner and Planning Commission may request. Public Works and Fire
Department shall give written notice to the Planning Commission regarding
concerns with the application if such arises.
   (B)   Applicant shall meet all standards and requirements of the State of
Oregon Health Division, Union County Health Department and the City of Union,
including those requirements set forth in Section 16, (A) (3) of Ordinance No.
276, Series 1969, as amended by Ordinance No. 281, Series 1970. [Subsection (e)
added by Ordinance No. 284 on May 10, 1971].
( Ord. 530, passed 5-13-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 UNOCCUPIED TRAILER COACH.
   An unoccupied trailer coach shall not be stored, parked, located, kept or
maintained on any dedicated street or alley where it will block or impede
traffic on any street, alley or any driveway, service entry or sidewalk.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.07 PERMIT TO TEMPORARILY PARK AN OCCUPIED VISITOR’S TRAILER.
   (A)   The owner, lessee or occupant of a parcel of real property within the
city of Union, Oregon, upon which a visitor’s trailer coach is to be parked,
must first obtain a permit to allow said parking from the City Recorder of the
City of Union or designee before allowing the same. The applicant shall
complete a detailed application form at City Hall, which will be kept on file
for emergency purposes. A permit will be issued that must be placed in a window
of the trailer coach that is visible from a city street. The owner, lessee or
occupant of a parcel of real property can apply for three permits in one
calendar year.
   (B)   A permit for the temporary parking of an occupied visitor’s trailer
coach for a period not to exceed 14 days shall be issued by the city recorder
or designee of the city of Union, providing that the following conditions are
complied with:
      (1)   The trailer coach shall not remain within the city of Union,
Oregon, more than 14 days, unless a variance permit was granted as outlined in
§
154.05;
      (2)   The trailer coach shall not be parked upon any dedicated street or
alley or service entry or sidewalk;
      (3)   The trailer coach shall not be parked closer than five feet from
any property line or ten feet from any building occupied for residential
purposes, unless otherwise requested by Public Works or Fire Department;
      (4)   The occupants of the trailer coach shall not use sanitary
facilities of said trailer while it is temporarily parked, except those of
self-contained units and units hooked up to adequate sewage disposal
facilities; and
      (5)   Electrical connection to the trailer coach shall be by weatherproof
cable. The trailer coach shall be properly grounded.
(Ord. 530, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 154.08 NONTRANSFERABILITY PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Nontransferability. The permits provided under the terms of this
chapter shall not be transferable.
   (B)   Site preparation prior to issuance of permit. No site preparation or
improvement, regardless of the amount or extent thereof, made by any applicant
prior to the issuance of any permit required hereunder shall, in and of itself,
require the city to issue any permit or bar the city from refusing to issue any
permit.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967; Ord. 281, passed 6-8-1970)
§ 154.09 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT OF STORED OR PARKED TRAILER COACH.
   In the event that any person stores, parks, keeps or maintains a trailer
coach on real property within the city limits of Union, without the consent or
knowledge of the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property, the owner of
or the person who caused the trailer coach to be parked or stored on the real
property shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to penalties
provided hereinafter.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967)
§ 154.10 NON-ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No permit for the storage or temporary parking of any trailer coach shall be
issued by the City Recorder except upon application of the owner, lessee or
occupant of real property upon which the trailer coach shall be stored or
temporarily parked.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-9-1967)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Definitions
   
155.004   Interpretation
Establishment of Zones
   
155.015   Zoning classifications
   
155.016   Location of zones
   
155.017   Zoning map
Use Zones
   
155.030   Conditions applying to all zones
   
155.031   Transportation improvements
   
155.032   Standards for transportation projects
   
155.033   Historic sites and structures
   
155.034   Riparian zone setbacks and vegetation maintenance
   
155.035   Standards for placement of a manufactured home on an individual lot
   
155.036   Provisions regulating construction upon adjoining lots or parcels
under the same ownership
   
155.037   General Commercial Zone (C-1)
   
155.038   Heavy Commercial Zone (C-2)
   
155.039   Commercial Amusement Zone (C-3)
   
155.040   Industrial Zone (I)
   
155.041   Residential Zone (R)
   
155.042   Rural Residential Zone (R-2)
   
155.043   Farm Residential Zone (R-3)
   
155.044   Exclusive Farm Use Zone (A-1)
   
155.045   Agricultural/Forest Zone (A-3)
   
155.046   Public Facility Zone (PF)
Exceptions and Variances
   
155.060   Nonconforming uses
   
155.061   Clear vision requirements
   
155.062   General exception to lot size requirements
   
155.063   General exception to setback requirements
   
155.064   General exception to front yard requirements
   
155.065   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.066   Off-street loading requirements
   
155.067   Accessory use requirements
   
155.068   Authorization of variances
   
155.069   Conditions for granting a variance
   
155.070   Variance procedure
   
155.071   Time limit
Conditional Uses
   
155.085   Authorization to grant or deny conditional use
   
155.086   Placing conditions on a permit
   
155.087   Application for conditional use
   
155.088   Notice of hearing on conditional use
   
155.089   Planning Commission action; recess of hearings
   
155.090   Specific conditions on certain conditional uses
   
155.091   Notification of action
   
155.092   Revocation of conditional use permit
   
155.093   Fees
   
155.094   Time limit on permit for conditional use
Amendments
   
155.110   Forms of amendment
   
155.111   Legislative revisions
   
155.112   Initiation of legislative revisions
   
155.113   Quasi-judicial changes
   
155.114   Initiation of quasi-judicial changes
   
155.115   Council determination final
   
155.116   Public hearings required; notice to DLCD
   
155.117   Notice of hearings
   
155.118   Planning Commission action
   
155.119   Council hearing and action
   
155.120   Notice to mobile home park tenants
   
155.121   Basis for decisions
   
155.122   Findings
   
155.123   Record of amendments
   
155.124   Limitation on re-application
Notices
   
155.140   Notices and application procedures
   
155.141   Radius for notices
   
155.142   Content of notices
   
155.143   Posting and publishing of notices
   
155.144   Failure to receive notice
   
155.145   Review of applications
Landowner Notification of Zoning or Comprehensive Plan Changes
   
155.160   Definition
   
155.161   Legislative actions to be adopted by ordinance
   
155.162   Notice to owners required for comprehensive plan changes
   
155.163   Notice to owners required for zone changes
   
155.164   Content of notices
   
155.165   Content of notices for periodic review mandated changes
   
155.166   Notices with tax statements
   
155.167   Notices by first class mail
   
155.168   When property is re-zoned
   
155.169   Excluded actions
   
155.170   More than one notice not required
   
155.171   Reimbursement by DLCD
Administrative Provisions
   
155.190   Building permits
   
155.191   Appeals
   
155.192   Form of petitions, applications, and appeals
   
155.193   Filing fees
   
155.194   Authorization of similar uses
   
155.195   Temporary use
   
155.196   Final action
   
155.197   Alternative remedy
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Union,
and map herein referred to which is incorporated by reference shall be known as
the Zoning Map of the City of Union. Said map and all explanatory matter
thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   The several purposes of this chapter are to encourage the most appropriate
use of land; to conserve and stabilize the value of property; to aid in the
rendering of fire and police protection; to provide for adequate light and air;
to lessen congestion; to encourage the orderly growth of the city; to prevent
undue concentration of population; to facilitate adequate provisions for
community utilities and facilities such as water, sewerage, and transportation;
and in general to promote public health, safety, convenience, and general
welfare.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural; and the plural includes the singular; the word LOT includes the word
PLOT, and the word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
   ACCESS. The way or means by which pedestrians and/or vehicles enter and
leave property.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An unattached structure incidental and subordinate to
the main structure of a property and located on the same lot as the main
structure.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental and subordinate to the main use of a
property and located on the same lot as the main use.
   ADJACENT. Abutting or located directly across a street or road right-of-way;
ABUTTING means contiguous or adjoining, and includes touching on a point such
as when a corner pin of one property touches only on the corner pin of an
ADJACENT property.
   AGRICULTURE. See FARM USE.
   ALLEY. A street which affords only a secondary means of access to property.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. A change or repair which would tend to prolong the
life of a supporting member, of a building or structure, such as foundation,
bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   ANIMAL UNIT. One horse or cow, five sheep or goats, or 24 fowl or rabbits
shall comprise one animal unit, except that any nursing horse or cow up to 200
days of age, or sheep or goats up to 100 days of age shall not be considered in
calculating animal unit requirements.
   BUILDING. A structure built or assembled for the support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
   CAMPGROUND. A development providing for transient lodging accommodations and
similar needs resulting from the demand generated by outdoor recreation
activities, and which may include structural improvements such as covered
cooking areas, lodges or other group facilities, and cabin or travel trailer
sites designed for temporary occupancy.
   CITY. The City of Union, or the City Council.
   COMMISSION. The City of Union Planning Commission.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A facility owned and operated by a governmental agency or
a private non-profit community organization, provided that the facility is for
recreation, social welfare, community improvement, or public assembly.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Maps and written goals and guidelines related to land
use, public facilities, services, transportation, housing, and development, to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES. Policies which have been adopted by the city to
provide developers with an indication of what may be required of them with
respect to recognition of historic, scenic, or aesthetic values, and/or
development of water improvements, sewerage connection, street, curb, or
sidewalk construction, or similar activities, and to provide city officials a
guide to use for inspection or construction purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed for
occupancy by more than two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building containing one dwelling unit
and designed for occupancy by one family unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A detached building containing two dwelling
units and designed for occupancy by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building containing not more than one
cooking unit and designed for occupancy by one family.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
legal adoption, or legal guardianship, living together as one housekeeping unit
using one kitchen, and providing meals or lodging to not more than two
additional persons, excluding servants, or a group of not more than five
unrelated persons living together as one housekeeping unit using one kitchen.
   FARM USE. The utilization of land for the purpose of obtaining a profit (in
money) by raising, harvesting, and selling crops, or by the feeding, breeding,
management, and sale of, or the produce of livestock, poultry, fur-bearing
animals, honeybees, or for dairying and the same of dairy products, or for any
other agriculture or horticultural use, animal husbandry, or any combination
thereof, including the preparation or processing and storage of products raised
on such land.
   FARMING PRACTICES (ACCEPTED). A mode of operation that is common to farms of
a similar nature, necessary for the operation of such farms to obtain a profit
in money, and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use.
   FEEDLOT or CONFINED FEEDING OR HOLDING OPERATION. The concentrated or
confined feeding or holding of animals or poultry where the surface has been
prepared with concrete, rock, or vitreous material to support animals in wet
weather or where the concentration of animals has destroyed the vegetative
cover and the natural infiltrative capacity of the soil.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage for not more than three automobiles, for storage
only, and intended for private use, but in which space may be rented for
storage only, if for not more than two non-commercial automobiles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair, parking, or storage of automobiles and automotive equipment and
machinery.
   GRADE (GROUND LEVEL). The average elevation of the finished ground elevation
at the center of all walls of a building, except that if a wall is parallel to
and within five feet of a sidewalk, the sidewalk elevation nearest the center
of the wall shall constitute the ground elevation.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping on a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the center height between the highest and lowest points on other types of
roofs.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area containing a number of lots, blocks, and/or
structures that have a special architectural or cultural significance or
associations, as a part of the heritage of the city.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. An individual building, structure, site, or object that
has special architectural or cultural significance or associations, as a part
of the heritage of the city.
   HISTORIC SITE. A specific building or site identified in the land use plan
as having special or significant historic associations or architectural merits.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A lawful occupation carried on by a resident in his
dwelling or accessory building, where the occupation is secondary to the main
use of the property as a residence.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Cats, dogs, and similar animals commonly occupying a family
dwelling.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. Those processing or manufacturing uses that can be
undertaken within a structure and which do not cause objectionable noise,
smoke, odor, vibration, traffic volume, congestion, or other undesirable
characteristics.
   LIVESTOCK. Those animals including cattle, horses, sheep, poultry, and pigs,
generally raised or kept on farms for profit or other purposes.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive
of streets and easements of access to other property.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more streets, other than an alley, at
their intersection.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating the lot from the street other than
an alley, and in the case of a corner lot, the shortest lot line along a street
other than an alley.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is opposite and most distance from the
front line. In the case of an irregular, triangular, or other shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to and at a maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
ordinarily measured parallel to the front lot line.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A residential trailer, a mobile home, or a
manufactured home as defined in this section.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that has a Department of Housing and Urban
Development label certifying that it is built in accordance with the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended;
and is constructed for movement on the public highways, has plumbing and
cooking facilities, is intended for human occupancy, and is intended for use as
a residence.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and that was
constructed between January 1, 1962, and June 15, 1976, and met the
construction requirements of the state mobile home law in effect at the time of
construction.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any place where four or more manufactured dwellings are
located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract, or parcel of land under
the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space
for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or
use of facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade
of patronage of such person.
   MOTEL. An individual building or group of attached or detached buildings
containing guest rooms, together with conveniently located parking spaces on
the same lot which is designed, used, or intended to be used for the
accommodation of automobile transients.
   NEUTRAL SURFACE, SIGNING. The building surfaces and opaque surfaces which
are not an integral part of the message and which are quiet in tone.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A lawful structure or use, existing at the
time this chapter or any amendment thereto becomes effective, and which does
not conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   OPEN LAND RECREATION. All recreational use normally conducted on acreages of
land but excluding intensive commercial amusements such as golf courses,
driving ranges, automobile race tracks, and amusement parks.
   OWNER. An owner of property or the legally authorized agent of the OWNER.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or
fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, branch
of government, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Structures, facilities, and operations associated with, and
including, but not limited to, public school districts; public universities;
federal, state, and local government; churches; and utility facilities and
installations such as electrical generation and transmission, cable
communications, sewer and water treatment and transmission.
   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and that was
constructed before January 1, 1962.
   RIPARIAN ZONE. An area pertaining to or situated on the edge of bank of a
river or stream.
   SIGN. Any presentation or representation included within the general or
specific definition of such term in the sign regulations.
   SIGN AREA. The area within a perimeter enclosing the limits of lettering,
writing, representation, emblem, figure, characters, and lighted surface which
forms an integral part of each sign. Neutral surfaces, elements, and supports
which may be part of the constructed sign but are intended only to integrate
and harmonize the sign with the architecture of the building to which the sign
is attached shall not be included in the calculation of the sign area.
   SKIRT. A durable all-weather material having a finished exterior surface
surrounding a mobile home and effectively screening the wheels and
undercarriage from view.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way for vehicular traffic.
   STRUCTURE. Something constructed or built and having a fixed base on or to
the ground or another structure.
   TRAFFIC CIRCULATION. A general term denoting provisions to accommodate or
encourage all modes of travel and movement which include, but are not limited
to, motor vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle.
   TRAILER HOUSE. A vehicle or similar portable device originally designed or
presently constructed to permit temporary or permanent human occupancy for
living and sleeping purposes and including mobile home, travel trailers,
campers, and similar units, having permanent kitchens and bath facilities.
   TRAILER HOUSE, TRAVEL. A trailer house not more than eight feet in body
width or more than 40 feet in body length designed primarily for temporary
occupancy and for travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
   TRAILER PARK, VACATION OR TRAVEL. A trailer park intended, designed, or
utilized for temporary occupancy by travel trailer houses or other similar
portable devices and accompanied by bath, laundry, and other accessory uses as
needed.
   URBAN TSP AREA. The platted and developed portions within the city’s urban
growth boundary where existing driveways onto the state highway system are
conforming features until redevelopment, at which time the driveway will be
evaluated by the city and ODOT in order to preserve safety.
   URBANIZABLE TSP AREA. The sparsely developed portion of land between the
urban area and the urban growth boundary where new public streets accessing the
state highway system are based on the adopted local street plan and new
driveways accessing the state highway system are at least 150 feet apart,
provided connections can be made in a safe manner.
   USE. The purpose for which a structure is designed, arranged, or intended,
or for which land is maintained or occupied.
   WRECKING YARD. Any property used for the dismantling and/or wrecking of used
motor vehicles, machinery, or trailers, or the storage or sale of dismantled,
obsolete, or wrecked motor vehicles, machinery, or trailers or their parts.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the front lot line from the street right-of-way line to the
nearest point of a building. Any yard meeting this definition and abutting on a
street other than an alley shall be considered a front yard.
   YARD, REAR. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at right
angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot line, or the main high water line
when applicable, to the nearest part of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the front and rear yard measured horizontally and
at right angles from the side lot line to the nearest point of the main
building.
   YARD, STREET SIDE. A yard adjacent to a street between the front yard and
the rear lot line measured horizontally and at right angles from the side
street right-of-way line to the nearest point of a building.
   ZONING OFFICER. That person or persons appointed by the City Council to
administer this chapter or parts thereof.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 437, passed 1-11-
1993; Ord. 463, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 534, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 558, passed
8-12-2019)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
fulfilling its objectives. Where conditions imposed by any other provision of
this chapter or of any other ordinance, resolution, or regulation exist, the
provisions which are more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
§ 155.015 ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   General Commercial (C-1). A business zone for all types of walk-in
retail and service establishments that meet the needs of the city’s core area.
Heavy commercial use such as wholesale businesses, supply houses, and the like,
are not intended for this zone.
   (B)   Heavy Commercial (C-2). This area borders the state highway on the
northern and southern portions of the city, outside of any other commercial
zone and the street east of downtown.
   (C)   Commercial Amusement (C-3). This zone is intended for public and
private organizational amusement, cultural, or recreation use; typically
included are civic centers, fairgrounds, rodeo arenas, golf courses, athletic
fields or complexes, festivals, and similar exhibitions.
   (D)   Industrial (I). This zone permits the general range of industrial
uses. Any planned industrial development in this zone with potential danger to
public health or safety or that will potentially adversely affect air, water,
visual, or sound quality will be allowed only after special hearing by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Residential (R). This zone allows single and multi-family residences.
It includes the existing developed core area, and those adjoining areas best
suited to residential development.
   (F)   Rural Residential (R-2). This zone is intended to provide minimum
standards for development of residential uses in those areas designated on the
zoning map as Rural Residential.
   (G)   Farm Residential (R-3). This zone is intended to provide areas
suitable and desirable for small agricultural uses and rural living
opportunities.
   (H)   Exclusive Farm Use (A-1). This zone is intended to conserve and
maintain productive agricultural land for continued agricultural use.
   (I)   Agricultural Forest Use (A-3). This zone is intended to conserve and
maintain agriculture and forest land.
   (J)   Public Facility (PF). This zone is designed to provide areas which are
designated for government, public, or public utility facilities, and which can
be held or developed by public and utility agencies; and, to assure that such
public facility development occurs in a manner compatible with surrounding
uses.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 534, passed 7-14-
2014)
§ 155.016 LOCATION OF ZONES.
   The boundaries for the zones listed in this chapter are indicated on the
City of Union Zoning Map with attachments which are hereby adopted by
reference. The boundaries shall be modified in accordance with zoning map
amendments which shall be adopted by reference. Unless otherwise shown on the
zoning map, boundaries of the zone are lot lines, center lines of streets and
alleys, railroad rights-of-way lines, section, township, and range lines as
they exist at the time of the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.017 ZONING MAP.
   The color coded zoning map can be found at www.cityofunion.com. A certified
print of the map shall be maintained in the office of the City Recorder as long
as this chapter remains in effect.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 534, passed 7-14-2014)
USE ZONES
§ 155.030 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO ALL ZONES.
   (A)   No building shall exceed a height of 35 feet above the elevation of
the ground. Signs shall conform to standards and regulations adopted by the
City Council.
   (B)   If any parcel of land abuts Oregon State Highway 203 and/or 237, then
the applicant shall notify ODOT prior to submitting any land use application.
The purpose for this contact is to involve ODOT at the beginning of the
application process so that the property owner/developer has the benefit of
ODOT comments prior to submitting a site plan, conditional use application, or
tentative plat map. For proposed urban TSP area development or redevelopment of
properties accessing a state highway, the developer/owner shall, prior to
making application, notify and coordinate with the city and the ODOT District
Manager to ensure safety of the access and potentially combine driveways if
safety is compromised. For proposed urbanizable TSP area development or
redevelopment of properties accessing a state highway, new public streets shall
be based on the adopted local street plan and new driveways shall be at least
150 feet apart. Land development affecting State Highway 203 and/or 237 will
address safety, capacity, functional classification, and level of service.
Access management policies for the city set forth in the transportation system
plan will be observed.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 463, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 155.031 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Changes in the specific alignment of proposed public road and highway
projects shall be permitted without plan amendment if the new alignment falls
within a transportation corridor identified in the transportation system plan.
   (B)   Transportation projects involving the operation, maintenance, repair,
and preservation of existing facilities that are consistent with the
transportation system plan, the classification of that roadway, and approved
road standards shall be allowed, except where specifically regulated (for
example, within a floodplain).
   (C)   Dedication of right-of-way, authorization of construction, and the
construction of facilities and improvements, where the improvements are
consistent with the transportation system plan, the classification of the
roadway, and approved road standards, shall be allowed.
   (D)   For state projects that require an environmental impact study (EIS) or
environmental assessment (EA), the draft EIS or EA shall serve as the
documentation for local land use review, if local review is required.
(Ord. 463, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 155.032 STANDARDS FOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright:
      (1)   Normal operation, maintenance, repair, and preservation activities
associated with transportation facilities;
      (2)   Installation of culverts, pathways, fencing, guardrails, lighting,
and similar types of improvements that take place within the existing right-of-
way;
      (3)   Projects specifically identified in the transportation system plan
as not requiring further land use regulation;
      (4)   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility;
      (5)   Emergency measures as necessary for the safety and protection of
property; and
      (6)   Acquisition of right-of-way for public roads, highways, and other
transportation projects identified in the transportation system plan are
permitted outright, except for those that are located in Exclusive Farm Use or
Forest Zones.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or widening of highways, roads,
bridges, or other transportation projects that are not specifically identified
in the transportation system plan, or not designed and constructed as part of a
subdivision or planned development subject to site plan and/or conditional use
review, shall comply with the transportation system plan and applicable
standards, and shall address the following criteria. For state projects that
require an EIS or EA, the draft EIS or EA shall be reviewed and used as the
basis for findings to comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   The project is designed to be compatible with existing land use
and social patterns, including noise generation, safety, and zoning;
         (b)   The project is designed to minimize avoidable environmental
impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water quality, and
cultural resources;
         (c)   The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the
facility through access management, traffic calming, or other design features;
and
         (d)   The project includes provision for bicycle and pedestrian
circulation as consistent with the comprehensive plan and other requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   Construction of rest areas, weigh stations, and temporary storage
and processing sites.
      (3)   If review under this section indicates that the use or activity is
inconsistent with the transportation system plan, the procedure for a plan
amendment, including any necessary goal exceptions, shall be undertaken prior
to or in conjunction with the conditional permit review.
   (C)   Policy. All transportation facilities will conform with the
transportation system plan street standards.
(Ord. 463, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 155.033 HISTORIC SITES AND STRUCTURES.
   The purpose of this section is to protect and regulate specific buildings
and sites identified in the land use plan as having special or significant
historic associations or architectural merits, as a part of the heritage of the
citizens of the city. It is not the intent or purpose of this section, however,
to regulate the specific use of a historic building or site beyond that
provided in the applicable zoning classification and other sections of this
chapter.
   (A)   Permits. Prior to any alteration, expansion, destruction, or removal
of a historic site or structure identified as such in the land use plan and on
the zoning map, the following procedures shall be followed.
      (1)   An application shall be made to the Council identifying the
proposed activity.
      (2)   The application shall be placed on the Council agenda and public
notice given at least 15 days in advance of a public meeting.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be held by the Council to review the
proposed activity and determine the impact on the historical character of the
site or structure.
   (B)   Subsequent to the Council review and impact analysis, a 30-day period
will be provided for public pursuit of alternative courses of action to assure
preservation of historic characteristics of the site or structure.
   (C)   Prior to issuing a building permit for the alteration, expansion,
destruction, or removal of the historic site or structure, written approval
from the City Recorder shall be issued subsequent to the 30-day period allowed
for the public pursuit of alternatives.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 155.034 RIPARIAN ZONE SETBACKS AND VEGETATION MAINTENANCE.
   In order to maintain the vegetative cover which furnishes riparian habitat
along Catherine Creek and Little Creek, a setback for any new development such
as structures or roads shall be required. The setback distance shall be equal
to 1/2 the stream width, as measured at right angles to the annual high-water
line. A minimum of 25 feet on either side of the streams will be recognized.
Woody vegetation presently existing in the riparian zone shall be maintained;
however, thinning or brushing may occur within the riparian zone as long as 75%
of the existing shade over the stream is maintained.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 155.035 STANDARDS FOR PLACEMENT OF A MANUFACTURED HOME ON AN INDIVIDUAL LOT.
   The manufactured home shall:
   (A)   Enclose a floor area of not less than 800 square feet;
   (B)   Be placed on an excavated and/or backfilled foundation and the open
portion under the home enclosed with pressure treated wood, masonry, or
concrete walls, so that the top of the perimeter wall is not more than 12
inches above the finished ground level, except on a sloping lot where the top
of the perimeter wail shall be not more than 12 inches above the finished
ground level at its highest point along the perimeter wall; complying with the
minimum set-up standards of the adopted State Administrative Rules for
Manufactured Dwellings, Chapter 918. When pressure treated wood is used for the
perimeter wall, a covering similar in appearance to the manufactured home
siding, or a finished concrete wall, will be used to cover the wall. A
permanent concrete foundation existing at the time of this chapter’s adoption
that exceeds 12 inches in height but otherwise complies with this chapter may
continue to be used; and
   (C)   Have an integral roof with a nominal pitch of 2 1/2 feet in height for
every 12 feet in width.
(Ord. 437, passed 1-11-1993)
§ 155.036 PROVISIONS REGULATING CONSTRUCTION UPON ADJOINING LOTS OR PARCELS
UNDER THE SAME OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   In order to allow an owner of multiple adjoining discrete lots or
parcels to construct upon the area of land under the same ownership and without
regard to interior lot lines (treating the entirety of the land as a single lot
or parcel by reference to the exterior perimeter lines only), the city
recognizes three separate methods to permit such construction pursuant to §
155.190:
      (1)   Re-plat of the lots under the same ownership pursuant to O.R.S.
92.180 et seq. into one or more lots or parcels, and satisfying the criteria
and provisions of
Chapter 152;
      (2)   Lot/parcel line adjustment per O.R.S. 92.010(11) and 92.190,
provided that each resulting lot or parcel meets the criteria for a new
discrete lot or parcel pursuant to this chapter and
Chapter 152;
      (3)   A deed restriction recorded against each lot or parcel proposed to
be used for purposes of setback and other requirements or restrictions within
this chapter and
Chapter 152, which satisfies the following requirements:
         (a)   The deed restriction identifies the city as a third party
beneficiary of the restriction;
         (b)   The deed restriction states that no lot or parcel identified
within the document may be sold separately from any other lot or parcel within
the restriction;
         (c)   That the intent of the deed restriction is to treat the combined
land within the identified lost or parcels as a single lot or parcel for
purposes of this chapter and
Chapter 152; and
         (d)   That the deed restriction runs with the land.
   (B)   Procedure for removal of deed restriction. The procedure to be
followed in applying for removal of the deed restriction established pursuant
to division (A)(3) shall be the same as those provided in §§ 155.085 through
155.094.
   (C)   Criteria for review of request for removal of deed restriction. The
Planning Commission may authorize removal of the deed restriction established
pursuant to division (A)(3) if the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   Each discrete lot or parcel and any structures thereon meet all
requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 152 in effect at the time of the application, including, but not
limited to, setbacks, street frontage, minimum parcel size for new lots,
primary structures and/or uses, accessory structures and/or uses, and
limitations on single dwellings per lot or parcel;
      (2)   All utility services and equipment remain on and within the lot or
parcel on which the structure they serve is located; and
      (3)   In permitting the removal of the deed restriction, the Planning
Commission may impose, in addition to those standards and requirements
expressly specified by this chapter, additional conditions which it finds
necessary to avoid a detrimental environmental impact and to otherwise protect
the best interest of the surrounding area or the community as a whole.
(Ord. 514, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 155.037 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a General Commercial Zone (C-1). General
walk-in commercial uses and operations that are predominately retail or service
establishments dealing with ultimate consumers. Single-family residential use
of commercial structures within the C-1 Zone shall be permitted only in
conjunction with an operational commercial use provided that such residential
use is secondary in nature to the main use of the structure for its commercial
activities, and the occupying residents are the owners and/or operators of the
commercial activities. The residential use shall not be visible from, and shall
not deter or obstruct the street front use of, the building for commercial
activities. Residential uses of commercial structures shall cease within six
months of discontinuance of commercial activity, until such time as a new
commercial activity is begun.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Church parsonages;
      (3)   Community clubs;
      (4)   Government structures and land uses:
      (5)   Convalescent homes;
      (6)   Clinics;
      (7)   Libraries;
      (8)   Museums;
      (9)   Public parks;
      (10)   Public utility structures and lines;
      (11)   Radio and television transmitters and lines;
      (12)   Railroad rights-of-way;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Light industrial operations;
      (15)   Passenger terminals;
      (16)   One and two-family dwellings;
      (17)   Multi-family dwellings; and
      (18)   Overnight recreational vehicle accommodations in conjunction with
hotel/motel operations.
   (C)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Wrecking yard;
      (2)   Travel trailer park;
      (3)   Mobile home park;
      (4)   Wholesale establishments and warehouses;
      (5)   Heavy industrial use;
      (6)   Building and related contractor uses;
      (7)   Excavating contractor use;
      (8)   Heavy retail sales such as, but not limited to:
         (a)   Automotive sales;
         (b)   Tire sales and services;
         (c)   Trailer sales and services; and
         (d)   Pleasure craft sales and rental;
      (9)   Drive-in theaters; and
      (10)   Race tracks.
   (D)   Lot size requirements. Lots shall have size and dimensional standards
as necessary for traffic circulation, off-street parking, loading and
unloading, and similar activities, as approved by the Planning Commission and
City Council from detailed plans presented.
   (E)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Setback requirements for lots adjacent to residential areas shall
be the same as the standards in the residential area.
      (2)   There shall be no setback requirement for lots along Main Street.
      (3)   Lots other than along Main Street shall have setbacks established
for suitable parking and traffic patterns as approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council from detailed plans presented.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 451, passed 7-8-1996; Ord. 512, passed 2-11-
2008)
§ 155.038 HEAVY COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-2).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Heavy Commercial Zone (C-2). All general
commercial uses. Single-family residential use of commercial structures within
the C-2 Zone shall be permitted only in conjunction with an operational
commercial use provided that such residential use is secondary in nature to the
main use of the structure for its commercial activities, and the occupying
residents are the owners and/or operators of the commercial activities. The
residential use shall not be visible from, and shall not deter or obstruct the
street front use of the building for commercial activities. Residential uses of
commercial structures shall cease within six months of discontinuance of
commercial activity, until such time as new commercial activity is begun.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Church parsonages;
      (3)   Convalescent homes;
      (4)   Clinics;
      (5)   Schools;
      (6)   Light industrial uses;
      (7)   Public structures and land uses;
      (8)   Wrecking yards;
      (9)   Travel trailer parks;
      (10)   Large wholesale establishments and warehouses;
      (11)   Public utility structures and lines;
      (12)   One and two-family dwellings; and
      (13)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (C)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Mobile home parks; and
      (2)   Any use declared a nuisance by statute, by action of the City
Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction is prohibited in the C-2 Zone.
   (D)   Lot size requirements. Lots for proposed commercial expansion or new
construction shall have size and dimensional standards as necessary for traffic
circulation, off-street parking, loading and unloading, and similar activities
as approved by the Planning Commission and the City Council. Lot size for other
uses shall conform to requirements set forth in other use sections of this
chapter.
   (E)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for lots adjacent to
existing residential areas shall be the same as standards in the residential
area. All other lots shall have setbacks established for suitable parking and
traffic patterns, as approved by the Planning Commission and City Council from
detailed plans presented.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 437, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 512, passed 2-11-
2008)
§ 155.039 COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENT ZONE (C-3).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Commercial Amusement Zone (C-3): all
public or private non-profit amusement, cultural, or recreational uses.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Residential buildings accessory to a commercial use such as
caretaker residences;
      (2)   Travel trailer parks; and
      (3)   Grandstands over 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Any use declared a nuisance by statute, ordinance,
action of the City Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, or which
may be objectionable by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, or noise;
provided that the City Council shall have the power, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, to grant conditional and revocable permits for any such
use within the zone after public hearing and examination of the location, and
upon due proof to the satisfaction of the Council, that the maintenance of such
use will not be unduly detrimental to adjacent and surrounding properties.
   (D)   Setback requirements. Setbacks shall be established for suitable
parking and traffic patterns and shall be compatible with surrounding zones and
uses and approved by the Planning Commission and City Council from detailed
plans submitted.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.040 INDUSTRIAL ZONE (I).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in an Industrial Zone (I):
      (1)   All industrial uses except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C);
      (2)   Commercial uses associated with manufacturing, processing, or
storage of materials;
      (3)   Large wholesale establishments and warehouses; and
      (4)   Farm use.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Governmental use or activity;
      (2)   Utility facilities necessary for public service, including, but not
limited to, substations, power generating facilities for public and private
use, and/or other related structural uses;
      (3)   Wrecking yards; and
      (4)   Storage of waste materials or junk.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Those uses which have been declared nuisances by
statutes or ordinances, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by the
Council, or which may be obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission of odor,
dust, smoke, gas, noise, sawdust, soot, or vibrations; provided that the City
Council shall have the power, upon recommendation by the Planning Commission to
grant conditional and revocable permits for any such use within the Industrial
Zone after public hearings and examination of the location and upon due proof
to the satisfaction of the Council that the maintenance of such use will not be
unduly detrimental to adjacent and surrounding properties, except the following
which are declared to be absolutely prohibited:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of paris manufacture;
      (3)   Distillation of bones;
      (4)   Explosives; manufacture or storage;
      (5)   Fat rendering;
      (6)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (7)   Garbage, offal, or animal reduction or dumping;
      (8)   Gas manufacture;
      (9)   Glue manufacture;
      (10)   Petroleum refining;
      (11)   Slaughter house, stockyards, or feedlots;
      (12)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores;
      (13)   Tannery; and
      (14)   All types of residential dwellings.
   (D)   Lot size requirements. Lots shall have size and dimensional standards
as necessary for traffic circulation, off-street parking, loading and
unloading, and similar activities as approved by the Planning Commission and
City Council from detailed plans presented.
   (E)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for lots adjacent to
existing residential areas shall be the same as standards in the residential
area. All other setbacks shall be sufficient to allow parking, loading, and
related traffic circulation as needed by the user.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 155.041 RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Residential Zone (R):
      (1)   One and two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Manufactured homes meeting the requirements set forth in §
155.035, provided that the manufactured home and the lot on which it is
situated are in the same ownership;
      (3)   Truck gardening;
      (4)   The keeping of cattle, horses, fowl, rabbits, sheep, or goats
provided such animals are not allowed to run at large and a minimum of 10,000
square feet of open ground per animal unit is provided exclusive of dwelling
and accessory building area; and
      (5)   The keeping of common household pets.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Community centers;
      (4)   Day cares or nursery schools;
      (5)   Dog kennels for boarding or breeding;
      (6)   Governmental and public structures and uses;
      (7)   Home occupations;
      (8)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (9)   Libraries, museums, and art galleries;
      (10)   Livestock, or animals other than those listed in division (A)(4);
      (11)   Manufactured dwellings not meeting minimum dimensions for uses
permitted outright but meeting all other requirements for mobile homes;
      (12)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (13)   Private or public parks;
      (14)   Schools;
      (15)   Room and board to more than five non-family members;
      (16)   Public utility structures and lines;
      (17)   Manufactured dwelling parks;
      (18)   Neighborhood light commercial uses; and
      (19)   Manufactured dwellings placed in accordance with §
155.090.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Any use declared a nuisance or non-conforming to the
neighborhood or zone by statute, by action of the City Council, or by a court
of competent jurisdiction. All uses prohibited in the Commercial Zone (C-1). No
dwelling shall be built or moved onto a lot not abutting a street.
   (D)   Minimum lot size requirements.
      (1)   The minimum lot size for new lots and parcels in the R-1 Zone shall
be 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   In areas not served by city sewer, the minimum lot size shall be
20,000 square feet per single-family or two-family dwelling.
      (3)   For multi-family dwellings, the minimum lot size shall be 10,000
square feet for the first two family units and 2,500 square feet for each
additional attached family unit.
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage shall be 60 feet, except that cul-de-sac lots
may have 30 feet of frontage.
      (5)   There shall not be more than one dwelling and its accessory
buildings constructed on one lot.
   (E)   Setback requirements. Minimum requirements shall be 20 feet front yard
line, ten feet side yard line, and ten feet rear yard line. Both street
frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards. Accessory structure
minimum setback requirements shall be five feet from side yard or rear lot
lines. On all streets and street easements of less than 40 feet, building
setbacks shall be calculated so that if the street right-of-way were widened to
60 feet the above minimum setbacks would result. No building permit shall be
issued for construction of a building without such setback adjustments unless a
variance is granted.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 351, passed 9-9-1980; Ord. 429, passed 2-11-
1991; Ord. 437, passed 1-11-1993; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 558, passed
8-12-2019)
§ 155.042 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-2).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Rural Residential Zone (R-2):
      (1)   Single-family dwelling on a parcel meeting minimum lot size
requirements; and
      (2)   All other uses permitted outright in an A-1 Zone.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Private schools, parks, or playgrounds;
      (2)   Golf courses;
      (3)   Geothermal exploration and development;
      (4)   Aggregate and mineral exploration, mining, and processing;
      (5)   Utility facilities;
      (6)   Public schools;
      (7)   Other public buildings or facilities;
      (8)   Radio or television transmitters or towers;
      (9)   Home occupations;
      (10)   Churches;
      (11)   Commercial activities undertaken in conjunction with farm use; and
      (12)   Manufactured dwellings placed in accordance with §
155.090.
   (C)   Prohibited uses: feedlots, stockyards, and slaughterhouses.
   (D)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for new lots and parcels in the
R-2 Zone shall be 20,000 square feet when public access and public water supply
or public sewer are provided; otherwise a one acre minimum shall be required
where Oregon Department of Environmental Quality subsurface sewage disposal
approval can be obtained.
   (E)   Development standards.
      (1)   Setbacks shall be the same as in the R Zone.
      (2)   The standards for keeping animals shall be the same as those set
forth in §
155.041(A)(4).
      (3)   Standards for signs shall be the same as those in the A-1 Zone.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-
2006)
§ 155.043 FARM RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-3).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Farm Residential Zone (R-3): permitted
uses shall be the same as in the R-2 Zone.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Schools, parks, or playgrounds;
      (2)   Utility facilities;
      (3)   Home occupations;
      (4)   Commercial activities undertaken in conjunction with farm use;
      (5)   Geothermal exploration or development;
      (6)   Aggregate and mineral exploration, mining, and processing; and
      (7)   Manufactured dwellings placed in accordance with §
155.090.
   (C)   Prohibited uses: feedlots, stockyards, and slaughterhouses.
   (D)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for new lots or parcels in the
R-3 Zone shall be ten acres.
   (E)   Development standards. Development standards shall be the same as
those in the R-2 Zone.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 155.044 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE (A-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in an Exclusive Farm Use Zone (A-1):
      (1)   Raising, harvesting, storing, or selling crops for the purpose of
making a profit;
      (2)   Breeding, feeding, production, managing, and selling of livestock,
poultry, fish, fur-bearing animals, or honeybees for the purpose of making a
profit;
      (3)   Dairying and the sale of dairy products;
      (4)   Other agriculture, horticulture, or animal husbandry uses or
activities undertaken for the purpose of making a profit; and
      (5)   Propagation and/or harvesting of a forest product.
   (B)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Utility facilities other than those permitted outright;
      (2)   Commercial activities conducted in conjunction with farm use;
      (3)   Public or private parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Golf courses;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)   Aggregate, mineral, or other resources exploration, mining, and
processing;
      (7)   Operation conducted for the mining and processing of geothermal
resources;
      (8)   The boarding of horses for profit;
      (9)   A dwelling on real property used for farm use if the dwelling is:
         (a)   Located on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the farm
operator; and
         (b)   Occupied by a relative, which means grandparent, grandchild,
parent, child, brother, or sister of the farm operator or the farm operator's
spouse, whose assistance in the management of the farm use is or will be
required by the farm operator;
      (10)   Dwellings and other buildings customarily provided in conjunction
with farm use. Prior to issuing any permits for more than one dwelling, it
shall be demonstrated that one of the above permitted uses in division (A)
exists and would be continued on the property, or that assurances are provided
that such uses will be developed;
      (11)   Local distribution utility facilities and similar minor facilities
necessary for public service and repair, replacement and maintenance thereof,
except commercial facilities for the purpose of generating power for public use
by sale;
      (12)   Exploration of geothermal resources; and
      (13)   Manufactured dwellings placed in accordance with §
155.090.
   (C)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for new lots or parcels in the
A-1 Zone shall be 160 acres.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Any proposed division of land included within the A-1 Zone
resulting in the creation of one or more parcels of land shall be reviewed and
approved or disapproved by the city.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall not approve any
proposed subdivision or partition of a lot or parcel described in division (B)
(9).
      (3)   Setbacks shall be the same as those in the R Zone.
      (4)   Animal shelters shall not be located closer than 100 feet from an R
or R-2 Zone.
      (5)   (a)   Signs shall be limited to the following:
            1.   Two name plates or signs for each dwelling;
            2.   Temporary signs as needed for advertising the sale, lease, or
rental of the property and not exceeding eight square feet in area;
            3.   A sign identifying non-residential use such as the sale of
products grown or produced on the premises or advertising activities conducted
as part of the farm use.
         (b)   No sign shall be moving, revolving, or flashing, and all
lighting shall be directed away from residential uses or zones, and shall not
be located so as to detract from a motorist's vision except for emergency
purposes.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 155.045 AGRICULTURAL/FOREST ZONE (A-3).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in an Agricultural/Forest Zone (A-3): any use
permitted outright in an A-1 Zone.
   (B)   Conditional uses: any use permitted as a conditional use in an A-
1 Zone.
   (C)   Lot size requirements: the minimum lot size for new lots or parcels in
the A-3 Zone shall be 40 acres.
   (D)   Development standards: standards in the A-3 Zone shall be the same as
standards in an A-1 Zone.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 155.046 PUBLIC FACILITY ZONE (PF).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright in a Public Facility Zone (PF):
      (1)   Public service facilities and minor betterments thereof; and
      (2)   Allowed only on those lands owned, operated, or leased to; or, that
support facilities owned, operated, or leased to the following entities:
         (a)   Federal, state, and local governments;
         (b)   Public school districts;
         (c)   State or community colleges and universities; or
         (d)   Churches.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Publicly owned facilities; and
      (2)   Public service uses provided by a non-profit organization.
   (C)   Lot size requirements. Lots or parcels shall have size and dimensional
standards as necessary to accommodate the structures, traffic circulation, off-
street parking, loading and unloading, and similar activities necessary for and
associated with the use proposed or existing on the subject property. The lot
size must be approved by the Planning Commission and City Council from detailed
plans presented by the applicant to those decision makers.
   (D)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for lots shall be
sufficient to allow parking, loading, and related traffic circulation as needed
by the use.
(Ord. 534, passed 7-14-2014)
EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES
§ 155.060 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The extent of such change, alternations, or expansion shall be prescribed by
the Planning Commission in connection with its findings. The procedure to be
followed and the fees to be charged on an application for permission to change,
extend, or alter a non-conforming use shall be the same as in the case of a
conditional use.
   (A)   Continuation. Subject to the other provisions of this chapter, a non-
conforming structure or use may be continued, but shall not be changed,
altered, extended, or expanded except when the following conditions are found
by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   That said structure is suitable for change, alteration, extension,
or expansion, and the result is not more incompatible or detrimental to
surrounding properties than the previous one; and
      (2)   That a change in the non-conforming use would not operate to lessen
the value of property in the same zone and reasonably adjacent to the property
concerned.
   (B)   Reconstruction and relocation. A building having a non-conforming use
at the time of the passage of this chapter may not be reconstructed or
structurally altered to an extent exceeding 80% of the then current assessed
value of the building unless a variance is granted, except as set forth herein.
When a building having a non-conforming use is damaged by fire or other causes
so that the total deterioration exceeds 80% of the cost of replacing the
building using new materials, then such building shall not be rebuilt unless
such building in its construction and uses conforms fully to the requirements
of this chapter and other ordinances of the city as applied to new buildings
and uses in the district in which it is to be located, except that pre-existing
residential structures within the C-1 and C-2 Zones may be rebuilt when
destruction exceeds 80% of its value to the size, scale, scope, and design of
the previous structure. When damage is 80% or less, rebuilding for non-
conforming use must be kept within the old foundation. When a building having a
non-conforming use is damaged by fire or other cause to an extent which will
permit rebuilding, such construction as defined by the State Uniform Building
Code must commence within one year of date of damage and be completed within
two years of such date, if use is to continue as a non-conforming use, unless a
variance is granted. No building or structure shall be moved from one lot or
premises to another unless such building or structure shall thereupon be made
to conform to all the provisions of this chapter relative to buildings or
structures hereafter erected upon the lot or premises to which such building or
structure shall have been moved.
   (C)   Existing buildings. If a non-conforming use involving a structure is
discontinued for a period of one year, further use of the building shall
conform to this chapter, except residential structures within the C-1 and C-
2 Zones, which shall have a period of two years.
   (D)   Interruptions of use. If a non-conforming use not involving a
structure is discontinued for a period of six months, further use of the
property shall conform to this chapter. Any non-conforming use determined by
the City Council to be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare
shall be discontinued after a period of time determined by the Council at a
public hearing to be the amortized life of the use.
   (E)   Mobile homes. Any non-conforming mobile home removed from a lot may be
replaced only by a conforming mobile home.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 512, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 155.061 CLEAR VISION REQUIREMENTS.
   A clear vision area shall be a triangular area on a lot at the intersection
of two streets, two sides of which are lot lines measured a distance of 30 feet
from the corner intersection of the lot lines. The third side of the triangle
is a line across the corner of the lot joining the ends of the other two sides.
Where the lot lines at intersections have rounded corners, the lot lines will
be extended in a straight line to the point of intersection. The clear vision
area shall contain no sight-obscuring plantings, walls, structures, fences, or
other temporary or permanent obstructions exceeding three feet in height as
measured from the grade of the street centerline.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.062 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this chapter does
not own sufficient area in said lot or contiguous lots to enable him to conform
to the yard and other requirements of this chapter, the city may, upon variance
approval, grant a building permit conditioned upon compliance with this chapter
to the extent reasonably possible under the circumstances.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.063 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   Architectural features such as eaves, chimneys, cornices, canopies, and
sunshades which project from a structure, but are not used for storage or
habitation, may project up to five feet into required setback areas.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.064 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The front yard requirements of this chapter shall not apply where the
average depth of the existing front yard on developed lots, located within the
same block and zoning area and fronting on the same street as such lot,
differs. The minimum specified front yard on such lot shall not be less than
the average existing front yard depth on said developed lots.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.065 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be located in the required yard areas of any
building or structure.
   (A)   Dwelling units.
      (1)   One space per single-family and mobile home residence.
      (2)   One and one-half spaces each for three or more dwelling units.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces for dwellings shall be located on the
same lot with the dwelling.
      (4)   Duplexes shall have one space per family unit.
   (B)   Other uses.
      (1)   Assembly type use: one space per 100 square feet of assembly area.
      (2)   Motel and resorts: one space per unit.
      (3)   Office and retail: one space per 800 square feet of seating area.
      (4)   Restaurant and taverns: one space per 200 square feet of seating
area.
      (5)   Warehouse: one space per 2,000 square feet of warehouse area.
   (C)   Other uses not listed above. Spaces required shall be determined by
the Planning Commission from detailed plans presented.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.066 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Buildings to be built or substantially altered which receive and distribute
materials and merchandise by trucks shall provide and maintain off-street
loading spaces in sufficient number and size to adequately handle the needs of
the particular use from detailed plans presented and approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.067 ACCESSORY USE REQUIREMENTS.
   An accessory use shall comply with all requirements for a principal use,
except as this chapter specifically allows to the contrary, and shall comply
with the following limitations.
   (A)   An accessory structure or use shall only be approved provided the
principal use has been established.
   (B)   In the Residential Zone (R), one-story detached accessory structures
used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses, and similar uses are allowed under
the following conditions.
      (1)   These accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The maximum square footage for these accessory structures shall be
120 square feet.
      (3)   The maximum height for these accessory structures shall be 12 feet.
      (4)   These accessory structures, including all projections, shall not be
closer than ten feet from any other building.
      (5)   An accessory structure not used for human habitation and separated
from the main building may be located in the required rear and side yard but
not in the required street side yard of a corner lot.
      (6)   These accessory structures shall meet all setback and lot coverage
requirements.
   (C)   All other accessory structures, including attached or detached garages
and guest houses without kitchen facilities, shall comply with the standards of
the zone in which they are located and with the Uniform Building Code.
   (D)   In commercial zones, accessory structures shall not be used for human
habitation.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 155.068 AUTHORIZATION OF VARIANCES.
   The Planning Commission may authorize variances from the requirements of
this chapter where it can be shown that owing to special and unusual
circumstances related to a particular piece of property, the literal
interpretation of this chapter would cause undue or unnecessary hardship. No
variance shall be granted to allow the use of property for purposes not
authorized within the zone in which the proposed use would be located. In
granting a variance, the Planning Commission may attach conditions which it
finds necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding property and to
otherwise achieve the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.069 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   No variance shall be granted by the Planning Commission unless it can be
shown that all of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Exceptional or extraordinary conditions applying to the property that
do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity, which
conditions are a result of lot size or shape, topography, or other
circumstances over which the applicant has no control;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right of
the applicant substantially the same as is possessed by owners of other
properties in the same zone or vicinity;
   (C)   The authorization of the variance shall not be materially detrimental
to the purposes of this chapter, be injurious to the property in the zone or
vicinity in which the property is located, or be otherwise detrimental to the
objectives of any municipal development plan or policy; and
   (D)   The variance request is the minimum variance from the provisions and
standards of this chapter which will alleviate the hardship.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.070 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   The procedure to be followed in applying for and acting on a variance
request shall be the same as those provided in §§ 155.085 through 155.094.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.071 TIME LIMIT.
   Authorization of a variance shall be void after one year unless substantial
construction pursuant thereto has taken place. However, the City Council may
extend authorization without a hearing for an additional period not to exceed
one year, upon request.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.085 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USE.
   A conditional use listed in this chapter shall be permitted, altered, or
denied in accordance with the standards and procedures of this section. In the
case of a use existing prior to the effective date of this chapter and
classified in this chapter as a conditional use, a change in the use or in the
lot area, or an alteration of structure shall conform with the requirements for
conditional use. In judging whether or not a conditional use proposal shall be
approved or denied the Planning Commission shall weigh its appropriateness and
desirability or the public convenience or necessity to be served against any
adverse conditions that would result from authorizing the particular
development at the location proposed and, in order to approve such use, shall
find that the following criteria are met, can be met by observance of
conditions, or are not applicable:
   (A)   The proposal will be consistent with the comprehensive plan and the
objectives of this chapter and other applicable policies of the city;
   (B)   The location, size, design, and operating characteristics under the
proposal will have minimal adverse impact on the livability, value, or
appropriate development of abutting properties and the surrounding area;
   (C)   The location and design of the site and structures of the proposal
will be as attractive as the nature of the use and its setting warrant;
   (D)   The proposal will preserve environmental assets of particular interest
to the community; and
   (E)   The applicant has a bona fide intent and capability to develop and use
the land as proposed and has no inappropriate purpose for submitting the
proposal, such as to artificially alter property values for speculative
purposes.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.086 PLACING CONDITIONS ON A PERMIT.
   In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of an existing
conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to those
standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter, additional
conditions which it finds necessary to avoid a detrimental environmental impact
and to otherwise protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the
community as a whole.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.087 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE.
   A request for a conditional use or modification of an existing use is done
by filing an application with the Planning Commission. The application shall be
accompanied by a site plan showing the dimensions and arrangement of the
proposed development, and the names of record and addresses thereof, of all
landowners within 300 feet of the parcel in question. The Planning Commission
may request other drawings or material essential to an understanding of the
proposed use and its relationship to the surrounding properties.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.088 NOTICE OF HEARING ON CONDITIONAL USE.
   Before a conditional use or modification of an existing conditional use is
allowed, it shall be considered at a public hearing conducted by the Planning
Commission. The public hearing shall be held and notice provided in accordance
with the requirements of §§
155.140 through 155.145.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005; Ord. 509, passed 2-11-
2008)
§ 155.089 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION; RECESS OF HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission may recess a hearing on a conditional use request in
order to obtain additional information or to notify additional property owners.
Upon recessing, the Planning Commission shall announce the time and date when
the hearing will be resumed and no further public notice shall be needed.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.090 SPECIFIC CONDITIONS ON CERTAIN CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations. Any home occupation which causes abnormal automotive
or pedestrian traffic or which is objectionable due to unsightliness or
emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, glare, heat, vibration, or similar causes
discernible on the outside of any building containing such home occupation
shall be prohibited. The premises shall at all times be maintained as
residential in appearance. Any materials used or any item produced or repaired
on the premises shall not be displayed or stored so as to be visible from the
exterior of the building. Structural alterations shall not detract from the
outward residential appearance. Any use that interferes with local radio or
television reception shall be discontinued.
   (B)   Mobile home parks. At least two acres shall be included in the park.
No mobile home shall be closer than 15 feet from any structure within or
outside of the park boundary, excepting utility or storage structures designed
for the individual mobile homes. Minimum area for each space shall be 4,000
square feet. Minimum street surfaces shall be 24 feet and paved with an oil mat
with street design to be approved by the Planning Commission prior to
construction. At least one surfaced, off-street parking space per unit shall be
located within required setback areas. Sight-obscuring fencing may be required
on every side of the park.
   (C)   Travel trailer park. At least one acre shall be included in the park.
No travel trailer shall be located within 15 feet of the outside boundary of
the park nor closer than 15 feet from any structure of travel trailer within
the park except for utility or storage structures designed for use by
individual trailers. Minimum area for each space is 1,000 square feet. Minimum
street surface width shall be 24 feet except if spaces are drive-through spaces
in which case, surface width may be 20 feet. Streets shall be paved with an oil
mat and design to be approved by the Planning Commission before start of
construction. The park shall be fenced to a minimum height of four feet and
shall have sight-obscuring vegetation planted on any side abutting a residence
or residential zone.
   (D)   Wrecking yards. The wrecking yard shall be fully enclosed by a sight-
obscuring fence, free of advertising, maintained in good condition, not less
than six feet in height and a design approved by the Planning Commission. All
vehicles shall be kept inside the fenced areas at all times, except those
vehicles belonging to customers which may be parked outside while at the
establishment on business. All sales, displays, storage, repair, or other
handling of products, merchandise, equipment and other articles shall occur
from within an enclosed building or from within the fenced area.
   (E)   Recreational vehicle accommodations in conjunction with hotel/motel
operations. Space rental shall be limited to a maximum of 15 days. Each will
have a minimum area of 900 square feet with the minimum width of 18 feet, and
layout and surfacing as approved by the Planning Commission from detailed
plans. Each space shall be attractively maintained. The boundary with adjacent
property shall include sight-obscuring fencing or vegetation.
   (F)   A manufactured dwelling may be placed as a conditional use for a
period not to exceed two years from the date of placement, and must meet the
following conditions.
      (1)   All manufactured dwellings shall have compatible skirting of a non-
combustible material or fire-retardant wood which must be maintained by the
owner.
      (2)   The manufactured dwelling must be occupied by the property owner or
a member of the property owner's family.
      (3)   Pedestals or supports shall be installed to ensure adequate support
for all manufactured dwellings. However, no manufactured dwelling shall be
permanently attached to a foundation.
      (4)   All awnings, carports, and cabanas constructed shall be of
materials, size, color, and pattern so as to be compatible with the
manufactured dwelling and shall comply with the state Building Codes.
      (5)   The owner of the lot shall agree that when a single-wide
manufactured dwelling is removed from its foundation, the owner shall within 30
days remove the foundation, manufactured dwelling accessory structures, and
other structures on the property, and request the city to properly disconnect
and seal sewer, water, and other utilities.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 451, passed 7-8-1996; Ord. 496, passed 6-12-
2006)
§ 155.091 NOTIFICATION OF ACTION.
   The city shall notify the applicant of an action of the Planning commission
within FIVE days after the decision has been reached. The notification shall be
in writing.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.092 REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Any permit granted hereby shall be subject to denial or revocation by the
Planning Commission if it is ascertained that the application includes or
included any false information, or if the conditions of approval have not been
complied with or are not satisfied. In order to consider revocation of a
conditional use permit, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing as
prescribed under §
155.088 in order to allow the permit holder to show cause why such permit
should not be revoked. If the Planning Commission finds that the conditions of
permit approval have not been complied with or are not satisfied, a reasonable
time shall be given for rectification and if corrections are not made within
that time, revocation of the permit shall become effective ten days after the
time specified. Re- application for a conditional use permit cannot be made
within one year after revocation except that the Commission may allow a new
application if in its opinion, new evidence or a change in circumstances
warrant it.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.093 FEES.
   A fee, according to a fee schedule adopted by the City Council by
resolution, shall be paid to cover the costs incurred in giving notice and
processing the conditional use request.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 155.094 TIME LIMIT ON PERMIT FOR CONDITIONAL USE.
   Authorization of a conditional use shall be void after one year or such
lesser time as the authorization may specify unless substantial construction
has taken place. The Planning Commission may extend authorization for an
additional period not to exceed one year on request.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.110 FORMS OF AMENDMENT.
   An amendment to the Zoning Ordinance may take the form of a legislative
revision or quasi-judicial change.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.111 LEGISLATIVE REVISIONS.
    Proposed amendments to the Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed legislative
revisions if the proposed amendment involves the text of this chapter, or the
proposed amendment involves the zoning map, when such amendment would have
widespread and significant impact beyond the immediate area of the proposed
amendment.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.112 INITIATION OF LEGISLATIVE REVISIONS.
   Legislative revisions may be initiated by the City Council on its own
motion, by the Planning Commission on its own motion, by the City Attorney, or
by city staff.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.113 QUASI-JUDICIAL CHANGES.
   A proposed amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed a quasi-
judicial change if the proposed amendment involves the zoning map and does not
have widespread and significant impact beyond the immediate area of the
proposed amendment.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.114 INITIATION OF QUASI-JUDICIAL CHANGES.
   A quasi-judicial change may be initiated by a property owner or his or her
authorized agent by filing an application with the City Recorder using forms
prescribed for that purpose.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.115 COUNCIL DETERMINATION FINAL.
   In case of a controversy as to whether an amendment is a legislative or
quasi-judicial matter, the decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-11-2005)
§ 155.116 PUBLIC HEARINGS REQUIRED; NOTICE TO DLCD.
   A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission and by the City
Council on any proposed amendment to the Zoning Ordinance, zoning map, or land
use plan map, whether legislative or quasi-judicial. Proposed amendments shall
be submitted to the Department of Land Conservation and Development not less
than 45 days prior to the date set for the first evidentiary hearing by the
Planning Commission, except as provided under O.R.S. 197.610.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.117 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice of the Planning Commission hearing on an application for a
quasi-judicial change shall be given pursuant to §§
155.140 through
155.145. Such notices shall also include the anticipated date of the City
Council hearing on the application.
   (B)   Notice of the Planning Commission hearing on a proposed legislative
revision shall be posted not less than 20 days prior to the date set for the
Planning Commission's hearing in not less than two public places in the city,
and published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. Such
notices shall also include the anticipated date of the City Council hearing on
the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.118 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   The Planning Commission's decision shall be couched as a recommendation to
the City Council to approve, reject, or approve with additional conditions or
modifications (as the case may be), the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.119 COUNCIL HEARING AND ACTION.
   Following the Planning Commission's decision, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed amendment. Notice of Council's hearing shall be
given by posting in not less than two public places in the city not less than
ten days prior to the date set for the Council hearing. The Council shall
approve, reject, or approve with additional conditions or modifications the
proposed amendment. The City Administrator shall notify the Department of Land
Conservation and Development of Council's action on the proposed amendment
pursuant to O.R.S. 197.615.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.120 NOTICE TO MOBILE HOME PARK TENANTS.
   In accordance with O.R.S. 227.175, if an application would change the zoning
of property which includes all or part of a mobile home or manufactured
dwelling park as defined in O.R.S. 446.003, written notice by first class mail
shall be sent to each existing mailing address for tenants of the mobile home
or manufactured dwelling park at least 20 days but not more than 40 days before
the date of the first hearing on the application. The city may require an
applicant for such a zone change to pay the cost of such notice.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.121 BASIS FOR DECISIONS.
   A decision on a land use plan text or land use map amendment by the Planning
Commission or City Council shall be based on the ability of the proposed change
to meet the following criteria:
   (A)   That changes have occurred in community attitudes or that physical,
social, economic, or environmental conditions in the area have changed since
plan adoption, and that a public need supports the change; or that the original
plan was incorrect;
   (B)   That alternative sites for the proposed uses have been considered;
   (C)   That the proposed change is compatible with the land use plan policies
and applicable LCDC goals and guidelines.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.122 FINDINGS.
   The decision of the Planning Commission or City Council shall be based upon
and accomplished by a brief statement that explains the following:
   (A)   The criteria and standards considered relevant to the decision;
   (B)   The basic facts relied upon in rendering the decision; and
   (C)   The ultimate facts and justification for the decision based on the
criteria, standards, and facts set forth.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.123 RECORD OF AMENDMENTS.
   A dated and executed copy of any amendment to the Zoning Ordinance or zoning
map shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Recorder. The City
Recorder shall maintain a record of the amendments to the Zoning Ordinance text
and zoning map in a form convenient for use of the public.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.124 LIMITATION ON RE-APPLICATION.
   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text of the
Zoning Ordinance or to the zoning map shall be considered by the Planning
Commission within the one-year period immediately following a previous denial
of such request, except that the Planning Commission may permit a new
application if, in the opinion of the Commission, new evidence or a change of
circumstances warrant it.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
NOTICES
§ 155.140 NOTICES AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall give notice of a public
hearing on a conditional use, variance, or quasi-judicial change to the zoning
map or any other public hearing required by this chapter to all property owners
within the applicable radius for notices as specified in § 155.141, and to such
other parties as are deemed affected by the proposed change. Notice shall be by
first-class mail or personal service with proof of delivery. Notice shall be
mailed or delivered not less than 20 days, but not more than 40 days, prior to
the date set for the first public hearing on the application, or not less than
ten days for applications requiring more than one evidentiary hearing. Names
and addresses of property owners shall be those shown in the records of the
Union County Assessor.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005; Ord. 509, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 155.141 RADIUS FOR NOTICES.
   The radius for notices shall be within 300 feet of the exterior boundaries
of the subject property, if the subject property is in the city limits but not
in a farm or forest zone; or within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
subject property, if the subject property is in a Farm or Forest Zone (O.R.S.
197.763(2)(a)).
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.142 CONTENT OF NOTICES.
   Notices to property owners shall:
   (A)   Explain the nature of the application and the proposed use or uses
which could be authorized (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(a));
   (B)   List the applicable criteria from the Zoning Ordinance and land use
plan that apply to the application (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(b));
   (C)   Set forth the street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(c));
   (D)   State the date, time, and location of the hearing (O.R.S. 197.763(3)
(d));
   (E)   State that the failure of an issue to be raised in a hearing, in
person or by letter, or failure to provide sufficient specificity to afford the
decision maker an opportunity to respond to the issue, precludes appeal to the
Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(e));
   (F)   Include the name of the local government representative to contact and
the telephone number where additional information may be obtained (O.R.S.
197.763(3)(g));
   (G)   State that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence
relied upon by the applicant, and the applicable criteria are available for
inspection at no cost and will be provided at reasonable cost (O.R.S. 197.763
(3)(h));
   (H)   If any staff report is to be used at the hearing, state that a copy of
the staff report will be available at no cost at least seven days prior to the
hearing and will be provided at reasonable cost (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(i)); and
   (I)   Include a general explanation of the requirements for submission of
testimony and the procedure for conduct of hearings (O.R.S. 197.763(3)(j)).
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.143 POSTING AND PUBLISHING OF NOTICES.
   In addition to the individual notices to landowners required by this
subchapter, the City Administrator shall also cause notice of the Planning
Commission's hearing to be posted not less than 20 days prior to the date set
for the Planning Commission's hearing in not less than two public places in the
city; and cause notice of the said hearing to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.144 FAILURE TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   Failure of a person to receive notice shall not invalidate any proceedings
for which notice has been given under this subchapter.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.145 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall be submitted to the City Administrator on forms
provided by the city and with narrative explanation and plans sufficient to
determine compliance with city requirements and any other applicable
requirements. An application may include, or be required to include, a traffic
analysis, environmental report, or other professional report pertaining to
conditions specific to the property or the proposed development (see O.R.S.
227.178 and §
155.194).
   (A)   Review for completeness. Within 30 days of receiving the application,
the City Administrator shall review the application to determine whether all
documents and plans necessary for review of the application have been
submitted. If all required and necessary documents and plans have been
submitted, a notice shall be provided to the applicant stating that the
application has been declared complete and identifying a tentative date for
public hearing. The date of the notice of complete application is the beginning
date for the 120-day period in which the city must reach a final local
decision. If all required and necessary documents and plans have not been
submitted, a notice shall be provided to the applicant stating that the
application is not complete, identifying the documents, plans, and any other
information necessary to make the application complete for review, and noting
that all information must be provided within 180 days from the date that the
application was filed or the application will be deemed withdrawn, with no
further action take by the city. The applicant may, in a written response,
refuse to provide the requested additional information and request that the
city proceed with review of the application.
   (B)   Decision and final order. The decision-maker, whether Planning
Commission or City Council, shall adopt a decision and final order which will
identify the facts and conclusions upon which the decision is based, consistent
with §
155.122 and additional requirements of this section. A notice of decision shall
be mailed to the applicant and other parties, with the following information:
      (1)   Applicable criteria and standards;
      (2)   A statement of facts as determined by the hearing body;
      (3)   The reasons for the conclusion to approve or deny the application;
and
      (4)   A statement identifying the procedure for an appeal of the
decision.
(Ord. 509, passed 2-11-2008)
LANDOWNER NOTIFICATION OF ZONING OR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CHANGES
§ 155.160 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, OWNER means the owner of the title to real
property or the contract purchaser of real property, of record as shown on the
last available complete tax assessment roll.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.161 LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS TO BE ADOPTED BY ORDINANCE.
   All legislative acts relating to comprehensive plans, land use planning, or
zoning adopted by the city shall be by ordinance.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.162 NOTICE TO OWNERS REQUIRED FOR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CHANGES.
   Except as provided in §
155.165, at least 20 days but not more than 40 days before the date of the
first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend an existing comprehensive
plan or any element thereof, or to adopt a new comprehensive plan, the city
shall cause a written individual notice of a land use change to be mailed to
each owner whose property would have to be re-zoned in order to comply with the
amended or new comprehensive plan if the ordinance becomes effective.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.163 NOTICE TO OWNERS REQUIRED FOR ZONE CHANGES.
   At least 20 days but no more than 40 days before the date of the first
hearing on an ordinance that proposes to re-zone property, the city shall cause
a written individual notice of a land use change to be mailed to the owner of
each lot or parcel that the ordinance proposes to re-zone.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.164 CONTENT OF NOTICES.
   An additional individual notice of land use change required by §§
155.162 or
155.163 above shall be approved by the city and shall describe in detail how
the proposed ordinance would affect the use of the property. The notice shall:
   (A)   Contain substantially the following language in boldfaced type
extending from the left-hand margin to the right-hand margin across the top of
the page of the notice:
         This is to notify you that the City of Union has proposed a land use
regulation that will affect the permissible uses of your land.
   (B)   Contain substantially the following language in the body of the
notice:
         On [date of public hearing], the City will hold a public hearing
regarding the adoption of Ordinance No.        . The City has determined that
adoption of this Ordinance will affect the permissible uses of your property
and may reduce the value of your property. Ordinance No.         is available
for inspection at Union City hall located at 342 S. Main St. A copy of
Ordinance No.         also is available for purchase at a cost of $        .
For additional information concerning Ordinance No.         you may call the
City Administrator.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.165 CONTENT OF NOTICES FOR PERIODIC REVIEW MANDATED CHANGES.
   At least 30 days prior to the adoption or amendment of a comprehensive plan
or land use regulation by the city pursuant to a requirement of periodic review
of the comprehensive plan under O.R.S. 197.628 to 197.636, the city shall cause
a written individual notice of the land use change to be mailed to the owner of
each lot or parcel that will be re-zoned as a result of the adoption or
enactment. The notice shall describe in detail how the ordinance or plan
amendment will affect the use of the property. The notice also shall:
   (A)   Contain substantially the following language in boldfaced type
extending from the left-hand margin to the right-hand margin across the top of
the page of the notice:
         This is to notify you that the City of Union has proposed a land use
regulation that will affect the permissible uses of your land.
   (B)   Contain substantially the following language in the body of the
notice:
         As a result of an order of the Land Conservation and Development
Commission, the City of Union has proposed Ordinance No.        . The City has
determined that adoption of this Ordinance will affect the permissible uses of
your property and may reduce the value of your property. Ordinance No.        
will become effective on [date]. Ordinance No.        is available for
inspection at Union City hall located at 342 S. Main St. A copy of Ordinance
No.         also is available for purchase at a cost of $        . For
additional information concerning Ordinance No.         you may call the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.166 NOTICES WITH TAX STATEMENTS.
   Notice provided under this subchapter may be included with the tax statement
required under O.R.S. 311.250.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.167 NOTICES BY FIRST CLASS MAIL.
   Notwithstanding §
155.166, the city may provide notice of a hearing at any time, provided notice
is mailed by first class mail or bulk mail to all persons for whom notice is
required under §§
155.162 and
155.163.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.168 WHEN PROPERTY IS RE-ZONED.
   For purposes of this subchapter, property is re-zoned when the city changes
the base zoning classification of the property, or adopts or amends an
ordinance in a manner that limits or prohibits land uses previously allowed in
the affected zone.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.169 EXCLUDED ACTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to legislative acts of the
City Council resulting from action of the Legislative Assembly or the Land
Conservation and Development Commission for which notice is provided under
Section 5 of Ballot Measure 56.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.170 MORE THAN ONE NOTICE NOT REQUIRED.
   The City Council is not required to provide more than one notice under this
subchapter to a person who owns more than one lot or parcel affected by a
change to the local comprehensive plan or land use regulation.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.171 REIMBURSEMENT BY DLCD.
   Pursuant to state law, the Land Conservation and Development Commission
shall reimburse the city for all usual and reasonable costs incurred to provide
notice under §
155.165.
(Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 155.190 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No permit shall be issued by the Building Official or designated city
representative for the construction, reconstruction, alteration, or change of
use of a structure or lot or parcel that does not conform to the requirements
of this chapter. If the owner of multiple discrete lots or parcels intends to
use multiple lots or parcels for satisfying any portion of this chapter, they
must produce sufficient evidence for review by the Building Official or city
representative to determine that the deed restriction set forth in §
155.036 has been recorded against the title to all affected lots or parcels. No
building permit shall be issued for a building or structure on a lot or parcel
which abuts a street dedicated to a portion only of its required width and
located on the side which has not yet been dedicated or condemned.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005; Ord. 514, passed 5-12-
2008)
§ 155.191 APPEALS.
   Any party that participated by submitting testimony or administrative
officer of the city may appeal to the City Council from any ruling of the
Planning Commission pertaining to the granting or denial of any decision or
permits applied for hereunder, by filing with the City Administrator within 12
days from the date of the notice of decision, a written notice stating with
reasonable accuracy the particular ruling from which appeal is made, and
stating the grounds therefor. Thereupon the City Administrator shall obtain all
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is based,
and refer the same to the City Council, along with a report on the proceedings
and issues. The City Council may receive any additional evidence relevant to
the issues involved. The City Council shall have the power to affirm, overrule,
or alter such ruling. The decision of the City Council on the appeal shall be
issued as provided in § 155.145(B). The decision of the Council is the final
local decision, which may be appealed to the Land Use Board of Appeals or state
courts as otherwise provided by state law.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005; Ord. 509, passed 2-11-
2008)
§ 155.192 FORM OF PETITIONS, APPLICATIONS, AND APPEALS.
   Petitions, applications, and appeals provided for in this chapter shall be
made on forms prescribed by the city. Applications shall be accompanied by
plans and specifications, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the sizes and locations on the lot of
existing and proposed structures; the intended use of each structure; the
number of families, if any, to be accommodated thereon; the relationship of the
property to the surrounding area, and such other information as is needed to
determine conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.193 FILING FEES.
   Applications required by this chapter shall be accompanied by a filing fee
of the amount established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.194 AUTHORIZATION OF SIMILAR USES.
   The Planning Commission may permit a particular use in a zone provided the
use is of the same general type as the uses permitted thereby in this chapter.
However, this section does not authorize the inclusion in a zone where it is
not of a use specifically listed in another zone or which is of the same
general type and is similar to a use specifically listed in another zone.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.195 TEMPORARY USE.
   The Planning Commission may, upon such petition, notice, and hearing as it
may deem proper, recommend to the City Council the granting of a temporary
permit to use certain specified property for a purpose not authorized in the
district or zone in which such property is located, provided such use is not
listed in another zone. Such temporary permit may be granted by motion or
resolution, and shall be revocable at the will of the Council or extended for a
time specified in the grant thereof, and it may be granted subject to such
other limitations and conditions as the Council shall impose.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.196 FINAL ACTION.
   (A)   In accordance with O.R.S. 227.178, except as provided in division (C),
the city shall take final action upon an application for a permit or zone
change, including all appeals to the Council as provided by this chapter,
within 120 days after the application is deemed complete.
   (B)   In accordance with O.R.S. 227.178, if an application for a permit or a
zone change is incomplete the Planning Administrator shall notify the applicant
of exactly what information is missing within 30 days of the receipt of the
application and shall allow the applicant a reasonable opportunity to submit
the missing information.
   (C)   In accordance with O.R.S. 227.178, the 120 day period specified in
division (A) may be extended for a reasonable period of time at the request of
the applicant. Division (A) shall not apply to decisions not wholly within the
authority and control of the Council, nor to an amendment to the comprehensive
plan or a land use regulation which has been acknowledged or to the adoption of
a new land use regulation that was forwarded to the Director of the Department
of Land Conservation and Development under O.R.S. 197.610(1).
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 413, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-
2005)
§ 155.197 ALTERNATIVE REMEDY.
   If a building or other structure is or is proposed to be located,
constructed, maintained, altered, or used, or land is or is proposed to be used
in violation of this chapter, the building or land thus is in violation and
shall constitute a nuisance and the city, may as an alternative to other
remedies that are legally available for enforcing this chapter, institute
injunction, abatement, or other appropriate proceedings to prevent, enjoin,
temporarily or permanently abate or remove the unlawful location, construction,
maintenance, repair, alteration, or use.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 491, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-11-1979)
Editor’s note:
   See the general penalty provisions of §
10.99 adopted by Ordinance 498, passed 12-12-2005. This specified a penalty of
$500 per day for violation of any city ordinance, in addition to state and
county court assessments, but allowed the Municipal Judge to promulgate an
alternate bail schedule for certain offenses at his or her discretion.
Ordinance 498 did not specifically repeal     the penalty language in any
ordinance, but presumably did replace it.
CHAPTER 156: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Applicability
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Historic Preservation Commission
   
156.06   Commission duties
   
156.07   Conflict with other laws
   
156.08   Identification and evaluation of historic resources
   
156.09   Local landmark register
   
156.10   Treatment of historic resources listed in the local landmark register
   
156.11   Removal of landmarks from the local landmark register
   
156.12   Economic hardship
   
156.13   Appeals
   
156.14   Re-submittal of an application previously denied
   
156.15   Enforcement
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   The City of Union Historic Preservation Ordinance.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   The City of Union establishes a Historic Preservation Ordinance to identify,
recognize, and preserve significant properties related to the community’s
history; encourage the rehabilitation and ongoing viability of historic
buildings and structures; strengthen public support for historic preservation
efforts within the community; foster civic pride; and encourage cultural
heritage tourism.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.03 APPLICABILITY.
   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance of a landmark when such action does not involve a change in design,
materials, or appearance. No provision in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the alteration, demolition, or relocation of a landmark when the
Building Official certifies that such action is required for public safety. At
his or her discretion, the Building Official may find that under state law and
§
156.09(D)(3) that a landmark does not meet current building code but is not
dangerous.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
defined have their commonly construed meaning:
   ALTERATION. An addition, removal, or reconfiguration that changes the
appearance of a Landmark. Painting, when color is not specifically noted in
Landmark’s Record of Designation, and ordinary maintenance are excluded from
this definition.
   BUILDING. A house, barn, church, hotel, or similar construction created
principally to shelter any form of human activity.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Qualified professional delegated by the City of Union to
do building control activities.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA). A document issued by the Historic
Preservation Officer indicating that the applicant has satisfactorily met the
provisions of this chapter for the alteration, relocation, or demolition of a
Landmark.
   DEMOLITION. The complete destruction or dismantling of 65% of, or greater,
of the entirety of a landmark.
   DISTRICT. A significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites,
buildings, structures, or objects united historically or aesthetically by plan
or physical development.
   ELIGIBLE/CONTRIBUTING. A building, structure, object, or site originally
constructed within the applicable period of significance that retains and
exhibits sufficient integrity (location, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, feeling, and association) to convey a sense of history. These
properties strengthen the historic integrity of an existing or potential
historic district.
   ELIGIBLE/SIGNIFICANT. A building, structure, object, or site originally
constructed within the applicable period of significance that retains and
exhibits sufficient integrity (location, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, feeling, and association) to convey a sense of history. These
properties strengthen the historic integrity of an existing or potential
historic district, and are likely individually eligible for listing in the
local landmark register.
   EXCEPTIONAL SIGNIFICANCE. The quality of historic significance achieved
outside the usual norms of age, association, or rarity.
   HISTORIC INTEGRITY. The quality of wholeness of historic location, design,
setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and/or association of a historic
resource, as opposed to its physical condition.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION. The Commission shall have all the powers
that are now or thereafter granted to it by the ordinances of this city or by
general laws of the State of Oregon. The Commission shall control the Historic
Preservation Ordinance and may make recommendations to the City Council, to
public officials and to individuals regarding historic properties. The
Commission may develop studies, hold hearings, and prepare reports and
recommendations, on its own initiative or at the request of the City Council.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER. The city official responsible for the
administration of this chapter.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. A building, structure, object, site, or district that is
at least 50 years old or is of exceptional significance and potentially meets
the age, integrity, and significance criteria for listing in the Local Landmark
Register, but may not necessarily be recorded in the Historic Resource Survey.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE SURVEY. The record of buildings, structures, objects, and
sites recorded by the City of Union used to identify historic resources
potentially eligible for listing in the Local Landmark Register.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES OF STATEWIDE SIGNIFICANCE. Buildings, structures, sites,
objects, and districts that are listed in the National Register.
   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE. The physical association of a building, structure,
site, object, or district with historic events, trends, persons, architecture,
method of construction, or that have yielded or may yield information important
in prehistory or history.
   LANDMARK. A building, structure, site, object, or district listed in the
City of Union Local Landmark Register.
   LOCAL LANDMARK REGISTER. The list of historic resources officially
recognized by the City of Union as important to its history and afforded the
protection under this chapter.
   NATIONAL PARK SERVICE INVENTORY OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS. The National Register
of Historic Places is the official list of the nation’s historic places worthy
of preservation. Authorized by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966,
the National Park Service’s National Register of Historic Places is part of a
national program to coordinate and support public and private efforts to
identify, evaluate, and protect America’s historic and archeological resources.
   NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES. The official list of the nation’s
historic places worthy of preservation. Authorized by the National Historic
Preservation Act of 1966, the National Park Service’s National Register of
Historic Places is part of a national program to coordinate and support public
and private efforts to identify, evaluate, and protect America’s historic and
archeological resources.
   NON-CONTRIBUTING. A building, structure, object, or site originally
constructed within the applicable period of significance that does not retain
or exhibit sufficient integrity (location, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, feeling, and association) to convey a sense of history. These
properties do not strengthen the historic integrity of an existing or potential
historic district in their current condition.
   NOT IN PERIOD. A building, structure, object, or site that was originally
constructed outside the applicable period of significance.
   OBJECT. A construction that is largely artistic in nature or is relatively
small in scale and simply constructed in comparison to buildings or structures,
including a fountain, sculpture, monument, milepost, and the like.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Activities that do not remove materials or alter
qualities that make a historic resource eligible for listing in the Local
Landmark Register, including cleaning, painting, when color is not specifically
noted in landmark’s record of designation, and limited replacement of siding,
trim, and window components when such material is beyond repair and where the
new piece is of the same size, dimension, material, and finish as that of the
original historic material. Excluded from this definition is the replacement of
an entire window sash or more than 20% percent of the siding or trim on any one
side of a landmark at any one time within one calendar year.
   PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE. The time period, from one to several years or
decades, during which a landmark was associated with an important historic
event(s), trend(s), person(s), architecture, or method(s) of construction.
   RECORD OF DESIGNATION. The official document created by the Historic
Preservation Officer that describes how a Landmark meets the criteria for
listing in the Local Landmark Register.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a landmark to a state of utility
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient use while
preserving those portions and features of the landmark and its site that convey
its historic significance.
   RELOCATION. The removal from or moving of a Landmark from its original
location noted in the record of designation.
   SITE. The location of a significant event, prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined,
or vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or
archeological value regardless of any existing building, structure, or object.
   STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE (SHPO). State organization that manages
and administers programs for the protection of the state’s historic and
cultural resources.
   STREETSCAPE. The physical parts and aesthetic qualities of a public right-
of-way, including the roadway, gutter, tree lawn, sidewalk, retaining walls,
landscaping and building setback.
   STRUCTURE. A functional construction made usually for purposes other than
creating human shelter, such as an aircraft, bridge, barn, fence, dam, tunnel,
and the like.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.05 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The City of Union Historic Preservation Commission is hereby established
with the following provisions.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Historic Preservation Officer to
serve as staff to the Historic Preservation Commission and to carry out the
administrative provisions of this chapter. The Historic Preservation Officer
may appoint a designee(s) to carry out responsibilities delegated to him or her
under this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of FIVE
members appointed by the Mayor subject to Council approval. A minimum of three
commissioners shall be residents of the City of Union with one member from the
City of Union Planning Commission, appointed to the Historic Preservation
Commission as non-voting member.
      (2)   It is desired to appoint members with a demonstrated competence,
knowledge, or interest in historic preservation with preference given to those
with professional experience in the fields of preservation, architecture,
archaeology, community history, building trends, real estate, or related
specialties. Members shall serve without compensation, but are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses related to their service.
   (C)   Initial appointments to the Commission shall be for terms of one, two
and three years. Subsequent terms of appointment shall be for three years, or
in the case of a replacement, for the remainder of the unexpired term. Members
shall be eligible for reappointment. Position one - term one
year, position two - term two years, position three and four - term three
years. Position five will be filled with a Planning Commission member.
   (D)   A chair and vice-chair shall be elected annually by and from the
seated membership. Officers are eligible for reelection.
   (E)   The Commission shall meet at least four times a year, and as required
to conduct business in a timely fashion. Notice of the meetings shall be in
accordance with applicable state law. Meeting minutes, applications for
certificates of appropriateness, Landmark nominations, records of designation,
staff reports, and decisions of the Commission shall be created and maintained
as public records in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (F)   A simple majority of the voting members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of the members present shall be
required for approval or disapproval of any motion or other action of the
Commission.
   (G)   The Historic Preservation Officer shall request that the City Council
consider declaring the position vacant of any member who is absent from three
meetings in a single calendar year without being excused prior to the meeting
by the Chair of the Commission.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.06 COMMISSION DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following duties.
   (A)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
156.08, the Commission shall identify and evaluate properties in the City of
Union and maintain a Historic Resource Survey consistent with the standards of
the Oregon State Historic Preservation Office, hereinafter referred to as
“SHPO”.
   (B)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
156.09, the Commission shall designate properties to the Local Landmark
Register.
   (C)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
156.10, the Commission shall review and act upon applications for the
alteration, relocation, or demolition of landmarks.
   (D)   The Commission shall support the enforcement of all state laws
relating to historic preservation.
   (E)   The Commission shall perform any other functions that may be
designated by resolution or motion of the City Council.
   (F)   The Commission may adopt and publish written and graphic guidelines
and example materials to clarify the criteria in this chapter and to assist
applicants in developing complete and viable
applications to designate, alter, rehabilitate, relocate, or demolish
landmarks. Documents intended to be used for the regulation of alterations as
defined in this chapter must be voted and approved by the Commission as a
recommendation to the City Council. Recommendation will then be sent for
adopted consideration by the Union City Council and approved as part of the
City of Union Zoning and Development Code using the established procedures for
amendments.
   (G)   The Commission may undertake to inform the citizens of, and visitors
to the City of Union, regarding the community’s history and prehistory; promote
research into its history and prehistory; collect and make available materials
on the preservation of landmarks; provide information on state and federal
preservation programs; and document landmarks prior to their alteration,
demolition, or relocation and archive that documentation.
   (H)   For purposes consistent with this chapter and subject to the approval
the City Council, the Commission may seek, accept, and expend public
appropriations; seek, accept, and expend grant and gift funds; cooperate with
public and private entities; assist the owners of landmarks in securing funding
for the preservation of their properties; and report on such activities to the
City Council.
   (I)   The Commission may recommend incentives and code amendments to the
City Council and Planning Commission to promote historic preservation in the
community.
   (J)   The Commission may comment on local, state, or federal issues, laws,
and requests relating to historic preservation.
   (K)   The Commission may employ clerical and expert assistance and elect to
form ad-hoc committees to carry out its business.
   (L)   The Commission may adopt and amend by-laws to regulate its internal
operations.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.07 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS.
   If the provisions of this chapter are found to be in conflict with federal
or state laws, the federal or state law shall prevail. In cases of conflict
with other city ordinances the previously established statute shall take
precedence.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.08 IDENTIFICATION AND EVALUATION OF HISTORIC RESOURCES.
   The Historic Resource Survey lists, describes, and determines the
eligibility of historic resources for listing in the Local Landmark Register.
Not all properties listed in the Historic Resource Survey are
eligible for listing in the Landmarks Register. A property need not be first
listed in the Historic Resource Survey before being nominated to the Local
Landmark Register under §
156.09.
   (A)   The Commission shall determine and periodically revise priorities for
the identification and evaluation of historic resources based on the
community’s needs and interests.
   (B)   Surveyed properties shall be identified as Eligible/Significant (ES),
Eligible/Contributing (EC), Non-Contributing (NC), or Not in Period (NP).
Evaluation and documentation of properties in the Historic Resource Survey
shall meet the requirements of the document “Guidelines for Historic Resource
Surveys in Oregon, 2010" or most recent guidance for such efforts published by
the SHPO and be supplied to the agency within six months of the completion of
the study.
   (C)   The Historic Resource Survey shall be maintained as a public record
with the exception of archaeological sites, which is prohibited by state law.
   (D)   Citizens shall have the opportunity to review and correct information
included in the Historic Resource Survey. Any member of the public may place a
property in the Historic Resource Survey; however, the Commission retains the
authority to determine the property’s eligibility for listing in the Local
Landmark Register.
   (E)   The Commission may collect further information including, but not
limited to, current photographs, architectural descriptions based on on-site
observations, or archival documentation for properties already listed in the
Local Landmark Register or National Register for the purposes of administering
this chapter pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.09 LOCAL LANDMARK REGISTER.
   The Commission may designate historic resources to the Local Landmark
Register as a means of providing recognition of their significance and
providing incentives and guidelines for their preservation. The Local Landmark
Register is maintained by the Historic Preservation Officer and shall be
available to the public.
   (A)   Historic resources within the corporate boundaries of the city and
listed in the National Register, including all National Register-listed
historic districts in their entirety may be listed in the Local Landmark
Register using the procedures outlined in division (C) of this section, but
need not be documented as outlined in divisions (B)(2) through (4) of this
section. In such cases, the National Register nomination shall serve as the
Record of Designation. As Historic Resources of Statewide Significance, all
National Register-listed properties, including individual properties in
recognized National Register-listed historic districts are subject to the
regulations in §
156.10(E), pursuant to Oregon state law.
   (B)   Criteria for designating historic resources to the Local Landmark
Register. Any building, structure, object, site, or district may be designated
to the Local Landmark Register if it meets all the Criteria of division (A) of
this section or all of the criteria listed below:
      (1)   The property is located within the boundaries of the City of Union;
      (2)   The property is over 50 years of age or of exceptional importance,
or in the case of a district, the majority of the properties are over 50 years
old or have exceptional significance;
      (3)   The property possesses sufficient historic integrity, in that there
are no major alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the
significant historic features. Major alterations that may destroy the historic
integrity include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof,
enlargement or enclosure of windows on principal facades, addition of upper
stories or the removal of original upper stories, covering the exterior walls
with non-historic materials, moving the resource from its original location to
one that is dissimilar to the original, additions which significantly detract
from or obscure the form and appearance of the historic resource when viewed
from the public right-of-way;
      (4)   The property has historic significance as demonstrated by meeting
at least one of the following criteria:
         (a)   Association with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of our history;
         (b)   Association with the lives or persons significant in our past;
         (c)   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction or that represent the work of a master, or that possess
high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable
entity whose components may lack individual distinction; and/or
         (d)   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.
   (C)   Nomination procedure. Any person, group, or government agency may
nominate a property for listing in the Local Landmark Register. The nomination
procedures are as follows:
      (1)   There is no fee associated with nominating a historic resource to
the Landmark Register.
      (2)   The nomination for a historic resource to the Local Landmark
Register must include a description of the boundaries of the proposed nominated
area and the structures, objects, and sites contained therein, and a statement
explaining how the historic resource(s) meet(s) the criteria under division (B)
of this section. The Historic Preservation Officer may establish additional
standards for a complete application.
      (3)   Prior to setting the proposed nomination on the agenda for the next
Commission meeting, the Historic Preservation Officer shall inform property
owners in writing of the nomination process pursuant to local and state law. To
be listed in the Local Landmark Register, the property’s legal owner(s) shall
provide to the city a written statement acknowledging that the owner
understands the nomination process and the results of such a designation, and
wishes to have their property listed in the Local Landmark Register. Within
locally designated historic districts a boundary may be established, but only
those that submit a statement as described above will be listed in the Local
Landmark Register. In cases where multiple persons or entities own a single
property, a simple majority of the property owners must submit a written
statement. The city may not object to the listing of a historic resource in
city ownership. This provision does not apply to individual historic resources
and historic districts listed in the National Register.
      (4)   Upon acceptance of a complete application and receipt of written
owner consent, the Historic Preservation Officer shall schedule a public
hearing before the Commission pursuant to applicable state and local laws.
      (5)   The Commission shall review the documentation for completeness,
accuracy, and compliance with the “Criteria for Designating Historic Resources
to the Local Landmark Register” of this section. The Commission may make a
recommendation to approve, deny, or table the application pending further
testimony, or to allow for the petitioner to provide additional information as
requested by the Commission. The Commission shall develop written findings to
support its decisions.
      (6)   Applications approved or denied by the Commission shall be final,
but can be appealed to the City Council within 60 days for the final decision.
      (7)   Upon final approval by the Historic Preservation Committee, the
Historic Preservation Officer shall prepare a Record of Designation that
includes the original nomination materials, and any testimony or additional
materials considered during the nomination process that establishes the
eligibility of the historic resource for listing in the Local Landmark
Register. Applicant may appeal a final decision by the Historic Preservation
Committee within 60 days of the decision.
      (8)   Historic resources designated as landmarks shall be noticed as such
in “Union Historic District” and the National Register of Historic Places. The
designation shall apply to the entirety of the recognized Landmark as described
in the Record of Designation regardless of future property division or
ownership.
      (9)   A Record of Designation may be amended through the process
described in division (C) of this section. The Historic Preservation Officer
may administratively add additional materials gathered under the provisions of
§
156.08 to keep the record current or elaborate on established facts in the
Record of Designation. Notice of such an action shall be provided to the
Commission at their next regular meeting.
   (D)   Results of listing in Local Landmark Register. Historic resources
listed in the Local Landmark Register receive the following benefits:
      (1)   All uses and restrictions established by the underlying zoning,
existing conditional use permits, and other applicable design standards shall
remain in effect unless changed through due process.
      (2)   Landmarks are protected under the provisions of §§
156.10 through
156.14.
      (3)   Union Planning Commission shall consider granting zoning variances
and/or conditional use permits in order to encourage the productive use and
preservation of landmarks.
      (4)   The local Building Official shall consider waiving certain code
requirements in accordance with the existing state building code.
      (5)   Property owners of landmarks may seek technical or financial
assistance from the Commission in applying for grants or tax incentives for
rehabilitating their properties as resources and funds are available.
      (6)   Property owners of landmarks are eligible to receive city-funded
grants and loans to assist with the preservation of their buildings as
resources and funds are available.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.10 TREATMENT OF HISTORIC RESOURCES LISTED IN THE LOCAL LANDMARK REGISTER.
   The Landmarks Commission shall use the provisions of this section to
preserve the exterior character-defining features of individual landmarks; the
exterior of individual buildings in landmark historic districts; and exteriors
and interior public spaces of city-owned landmarks.
   (A)   Activities not subject to the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Alterations to building interiors, exempting those owned by The
City of Union.
      (2)   Application of exterior paint color when color is not specifically
noted in Record of Designation.
      (3)   Alterations to landscape features not specifically identified as
historically significant in Record of Designation.
   (B)   No landmark or exterior landscape or archaeological element noted as
significant in the Record of Designation shall be altered, relocated, or
demolished, or a new building or structure constructed within the area defined
in the Record of Designation without a certificate of appropriateness signed
and issued by the Historic Preservation Officer. Certificates must be presented
to the Building Official before a building or demolition permit is issued.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness must include a
description of the proposed activity, accompanying maps, photographs, drawings,
and other documentation. The Historic Preservation Officer may establish
additional standards for a complete application, including defining different
criteria for a complete application under divisions (C), (D), and (E) of this
section.
      (2)   Upon acceptance of a complete application, the Historic
Preservation Officer shall decide within ten days if the proposed work is
subject to provisions (C), (D), or (E) of this section.
      (3)   The Historic Preservation Officer shall prepare a staff report that
summarizes the proposed project, notes the criteria specified in this chapter
under which the application shall be considered, and make a recommendation to
the Commission to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application for
a certificate of appropriateness. Materials that may be used in the preparation
of the staff report include the Record of Designation; and/or National Register
nomination; and/or other archival photos, maps; and/or other documentary
evidence specific to the subject property; and/or observations from on-site
inspections from the public-right-of way to document its historic appearance or
alteration over time; and/or documents and publications of the National Park
Service or Oregon State Historic Preservation Office. Documents that are not
available from the city at the time of application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be made available to the applicant at least ten calendar
days before a public hearing is held or administrative decision is made.
      (4)   The Commission shall review and act upon applications for the
alteration, relocation, and demolition of a landmark. Applications for the
alteration of a landmark may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied.
Applications for the relocation or demolition of a landmark may be approved,
approved with conditions, or the action delayed for up to one year. The
Commission shall develop written findings to support its decisions. The
Historic Preservation Officer shall include any conditions imposed by the
Commission in the certificate of appropriateness pursuant to this section.
      (5)   A certificate of appropriateness issued for the alteration of a
landmark shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of its
issuance. A certificate of appropriateness for alteration may be extended by
one year approved by the Historic Preservation Officer. A certificate of
appropriateness issued for the relocation or demolition of a historic resource
shall be effective for a period of one year. A certificate of appropriateness
for relocation or demolition may be extended by one year approved by the
Historic Preservation Commission.
      (6)   A landmark may be altered, relocated, or demolished without a
certificate of appropriateness if the Building Official attests in writing that
the condition of a Landmark poses a clear and immediate hazard to public
safety. The comments of the Building Official with sufficient evidence to
support his or her conclusions shall be provided to the Historic Preservation
Officer within 15 days of making his or her decision. The Historic Preservation
Officer will make these materials available to the Commission at their next
regular meeting. The property owner(s) must submit an application for a
certificate of appropriateness as required under this chapter within 30 days of
the Building Official submitting his or her written statement to the Historic
Preservation Officer.
   (C)   The Historic Preservation Officer may issue a certificate of
appropriateness for the alteration of a landmark without a public hearing when
the proposed alteration will not significantly change the qualities that
merited the listing of the landmark in the Local Landmark Register. A completed
certificate of appropriateness must be presented to the Building Official
before a permit is issued. The Historic Preservation Officer shall make a list
of certificates issued in this manner available to the Commission at each
regular meeting. Activities eligible for a certificate of appropriateness
issued as described in this provision include the following:
      (1)   Construction of a fence that meets applicable code;
      (2)   Demolition of an outbuilding noted as sharing a lot with a landmark
and specifically noted as not historically significant in its designation.
Pursuant to applicable code; and
      (3)   New addition to a landmark or new construction not visible from the
public right-of-way.
   (D)   A public hearing before the Commission and a signed certificate of
appropriateness shall be required for activities not exempted in divisions (A)
(1) through (A)(3) and (C)(1) through (C)(3) of this section.
      (1)   Prior to submitting an application for a permit pursuant to this
section, proponents are encouraged to request a pre-application conference to
review concepts and proposals. The Historic Preservation Officer may assign a
staff member to perform these duties or contract with other parties to complete
the consultation. The Commission may also form ad-hoc committees for this
purpose. Commission members participating in pre-application conferences shall
disclose their conflict of interest, bias, or ex-parte contact.
         (a)   Conflict of interest: are financial. The decision is going to
affect the Commission member personally, or his/her business. It doesn’t matter
whether the effect is good or bad.
         (b)   Bias: a particular tendency or inclination, especially one that
prevents unprejudiced consideration of a question.
         (c)   Ex-parte contact: you talked to somebody about the “case”
outside of the hearing.
      (2)   Upon acceptance of a complete application the Historic Preservation
Officer shall schedule a public hearing pursuant to applicable local and state
laws.
      (3)   In order to approve an application for the alteration of a
landmark, the Commission must find that the proposal meets the following
guidelines as applicable:
         (a)   A property shall be used as it was historically or be given a
new use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features,
spaces, and spatial relationships;
         (b)   The historic integrity of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The relocation of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property shall be
avoided;
         (c)   A property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic properties,
shall not be undertaken;
         (d)   Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance
in their own right shall be retained and preserved;
         (e)   Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be
preserved;
         (f)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. If the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall
be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence;
         (g)   Chemical and physical treatments, if appropriate, shall be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to
historic materials shall not be used;
         (h)   Archeological resources shall be protected and preserved in
place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be
undertaken;
         (i)   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials, features, and spatial relationships that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old
and shall be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and
proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its
environment; and/or
         (j)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
      (4)   In addition to meeting the applicable guidelines in division (D)(3)
(a) through (3)(j) of this section, in order to approve an application for the
alteration of a landmark the Commission must find that the proposal meets the
following design standards as applicable:
         (a)   Vacant buildings shall be weather and vandal-proofed in order to
minimize further deterioration and the threat to public safety;
         (b)   Rehabilitation work, especially on the exterior and the
principal facades shall preserve the existing historic features or replace them
if absolutely necessary with features and materials known to have existed on
the building through verifiable evidence such as photographs. Alterations to
landmarks shall not be based on speculation, but instead on documentary
evidence;
         (c)   New additions shall be subordinate to the original building,
meaning lower in height, attached to the rear or set back along the side,
smaller in scale, and have less architectural detail;
         (d)   Height, width, setback, roof shape, and the overall scale and
massing of new buildings within historic districts and on lots with existing
landmarks, or additions to landmarks shall be compatible with the existing
historic building(s) and, in the case of historic districts, the overall
streetscape;
         (e)   In historic districts and on lots with existing landmarks,
materials on at least the primary facade(s) of new buildings shall be similar
in size, shape, color, and texture to the original materials on the facades of
surrounding historic buildings;
         (f)   Architectural details on new construction (including wood or
metal trim, porches, cornices, arches, and window and door features, and the
like) shall be complimentary, but shall not replicate historic features on
surrounding historic buildings;
         (g)   Window and door opening should be similar in size and
orientation (vertical to horizontal) to openings on historic buildings and
shall take up about the same percentage of the overall facade as those on
surrounding historic buildings;
         (h)   In historic districts and on lots with existing landmarks, the
relationship of the width to the height of the principal elevations for new
buildings and additions to existing landmarks shall be in scale with the
surrounding structures and streetscape. Wider new building can be divided into
segments that more closely resemble the facade widths of historic buildings;
         (i)   In historic districts and on lots with existing landmarks, the
roof shape of new buildings and additions to existing landmarks shall be
visually compatible with the surrounding structures and streetscape. Unusual
roof shapes, materials, and pitches are discouraged;
         (j)   Moving landmarks shall be avoided, especially to create
artificial groupings;
         (k)   The demolition of landmarks shall be avoided whenever possible;
and/or
         (l)   Any applicable design guidelines adopted by the Commission in §
156.06.
   (E)   A public hearing before the Commission and a signed certificate of
appropriateness shall be required to relocate or demolish a landmark or any
property listed in the National Register of Historic Places individually or as
part of a historic district.
      (1)   In order to approve an application for the relocation of a
landmark, the Commission shall find that:
         (a)   The applicant has completed a replacement plan for the site,
including drawings approved by the Building Official. Plans must be submitted
for review by the Commission pursuant to §
156.10(D) as it relates to new construction;
         (b)   The Building Official determines and states in writing that the
building may not be safely removed from the site; and
         (c)   The value to the community of the proposed use of the property
outweighs the value of retaining landmark at the original location. Public
testimony shall be considered when making this determination.
      (2)   (a)   In order to approve an application for the demolition of a
landmark, the Commission must find the conditions in §
156.10(E)(1)(a) through (E)(1)(c) have been met as applicable; and
         (b)   The property owner can demonstrate an economic hardship as
described in §
156.12.
      (3)   In approving or denying an application for the relocation or
demolition of a landmark, the Commission may impose the following conditions:
         (a)   Photographic, video, or drawn recordation of the landmark in its
original location;
         (b)   In the case of demolition, the landmark be transported to a new
site, and that, to the extent possible, the new location is similar to the
original site and that the original setback and orientation of the building is
replicated on the new lot;
         (c)   In the cases of properties listed in the National Register, that
the applicant attempt to obtain permission to move the landmark from the
National Park Service in order to retain the property’s listing in the National
Register and/or assume all responsibility and cost of removing the if
permission cannot be obtained; and/or
         (d)   Other reasonable mitigation measures.
      (4)   At the hearing of an application to relocate or demolish a landmark
the Commission may, in the interest of exploring reasonable alternatives, delay
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness for up to 180 calendar days from
the date of the hearing. Not more than 60 and not less than 30 calendar days
prior to the expiration of the delay period, the Historic Preservation Officer
shall schedule a public hearing pursuant to local and state laws to allow the
Commission to consider if there are still reasonable alternatives to explore,
and if the group will request in writing that the City Council continue the
delay for an additional period of up to 180 calendar days. Pursuant to
applicable code.
      (5)   The Commission may not delay the relocation or demolition of a
landmark for more than 360 calendar days subject to the provisions of this
section. At the end of the waiting period, the Historic Preservation Officer
shall issue a certificate of appropriateness for the relocation or demolition
of the landmark.
      (6)   Upon issuing a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of
a landmark, the Historic Preservation Officer shall post a legal notice in a
local newspaper of general circulation, in two public locations within the
community and attach to the structure in an accessible area, weather proof
announcement declaring a public hearing in regards to the demolition, the
criteria under which the demolition was approved, the historic significance of
the property, and invite the public to provide alternatives to the demolition
for consideration by the Commission.
      (7)   Relocated landmarks shall remain listed in the Local Landmark
Register unless removed under §
156.11.
      (8)   Demolished landmarks shall be removed from the Local Landmark
Register using the procedures described in §
156.11.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.11 REMOVAL OF LANDMARKS FROM THE LOCAL LANDMARK REGISTER.
   A public hearing before the Commission and a signed certificate of
appropriateness shall be required to remove a landmark from the Local Landmark
Register.
   (A)   An application to remove a landmark from the Local Landmark Register
shall not be considered for one year after the date of decision for the denial
of an application for the relocation or demolition of the same landmark under §
156.10(E).
   (B)   Landmarks concurrently listed in the Local Landmark Register and
National Register will be considered for removal from the Local Landmark
Register only after the landmark is removed from the National Register and the
SHPO has provided written evidence of the removal to the Historic Preservation
Officer.
   (C)   Any individual or group, including the Commission acting on its own
initiative, may initiate the removal of a landmark or individual property
within a historic district from the Local Landmark Register by submitting a
complete application to the Historic Preservation Officer.
   (D)   The Historic Preservation Officer shall establish standards for a
complete application for the removal of a landmark from the Local Landmark
Register. Upon acceptance of a complete application, the Historic Preservation
Officer shall schedule a public hearing pursuant to applicable local and state
laws.
   (E)   In order to approve an application for the removal of a landmark from
the Local Landmark Register the Commission must find the following:
      (1)   The landmark has ceased to meet the criteria for listing in the
Local Landmark Register because the qualities which caused it to be originally
listed have been lost or destroyed; and/or
      (2)   The property owner at the time the property was added to the Local
Landmark Register did not provide written permission for such action as
required under §
156.09.
   (F)   Landmarks accidentally destroyed by flood, fire, or other natural or
accidental act or demolished under the provisions of §
156.10 and meeting the definition of “demolished” as defined in this chapter
may be removed administratively from the Local Landmark Register by the
Historic Preservation Officer, upon approval of the Commission. Notice of this
action and written evidence documenting the demolition of the landmark shall be
provided to the Commission at their next regular meeting. This same
documentation shall be provided to the SHPO. If a landmark is also listed in
the National Register, the Commission shall request that the SHPO remove the
property from the National Register if not requiring the owner to do so under §
156.10(E)(5).
   (G)   Upon removing a landmark from the Local Landmark Register, the
Historic Preservation Officer shall post a legal notice in a local newspaper of
general circulation and in two public locations within the community declaring
a public hearing in regards to the request to remove, the criteria under which
the removal was approved, and the historic significance of the property.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.12 ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   The Landmarks Commission shall grant a certificate of appropriateness for a
relocation, demolition, or, at the Commission’s discretion, modify or exempt a
property from the requirements of §
156.09 if the applicant can demonstrate that complying with the provisions of
this chapter creates an economic hardship that prevents the profitable use of
the subject property.
   (A)   Economic hardship may only be considered in a separate hearing after
an application for a certificate of appropriateness for the alteration,
relocation, or demolition of a landmark has been issued or denied and all
pending appeals to the Land Use Board of Appeals, the Land Conservation and
Development Commission, and local, state, and federal courts are resolved.
   (B)   Separate standards for demonstrating an economic hardship are
established for investment or income-producing and non-income-producing
properties.
   (C)   Economic hardship for an income-producing property shall be found when
the property owner demonstrates that a reasonable rate of return cannot be
obtained from the landmark if it retains its historic features, buildings, or
structures in either its present condition or if it is rehabilitated.
   (D)   Economic hardship for a non-income-producing property shall be found
when the property owner demonstrates that the landmark has no beneficial use as
a single-family dwelling or for an institutional use in its present condition
or if rehabilitated.
   (E)   Property owners seeking a certificate of appropriateness for economic
hardship must provide sufficient information, as determined by the Historic
Preservation Officer, to support the application for the certificate.
Demonstration of an economic hardship shall not be based on or include any of
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Willful or negligent acts by the owner;
      (2)   Purchase of the property for substantially more than market value;
      (3)   Failure to perform normal maintenance and repairs;
      (4)   Failure to diligently solicit and retain tenants; and/or
      (5)   Failure to provide normal tenant improvements.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.13 APPEALS.
   Decisions of the Commission are appealable to the City Council. Decisions of
City Council are appealable to the Oregon State Land Use Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.14 RE-SUBMITTAL OF AN APPLICATION PREVIOUSLY DENIED.
   An application for a certificate of appropriateness which has been denied or
an application which was denied and which on appeal has not been reversed by a
higher authority, including the Land Use Board of Appeals, the Land
Conservation and Development Commission, or the courts, may not be resubmitted
for the same or a substantially similar proposal or for the same or
substantially similar action for a period of at least two years from the date
the final city action is made denying the application unless there is a
substantial change in the facts or a change in city policy which would change
the outcome.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 156.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   Penalties for violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be the same
as for violation of the City of Union Planning Code.
(Ord. 526, passed 6-11-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING
TABLE I: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
270      11-6-1967   Issuance of general obligation bond in the sum of $310,000
308      10-6-1975   Issuance of negotiable sewer general obligation bonds;
                     $700,000
310      11-20-1975  Amending Ord. 308
318      5-18-1977   Issuance and sale of city general obligation sewer bonds
                     in principal sum of $80,000
322      8-15-1977   Amending Ord. 318
345      3-10-1980   Issuance and sale of city general obligation installment
                     sewer bond; $125,000
423      6-25-1990   Issuance and sale of general obligation installment water
                     bond number one, in the principal sum of $600,000
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
328      3-13-1978   General Telephone of the Northwest, Inc.
386      7-8-1985    California-Pacific Utilities (CP National)-Electricity
387      7-8-1985    Privilege Tax Levied on California Pacific Utilities (CP
                     National)
388      11-18-1985  McCaw Cable Television, Cable TV
389      12-9-1985   California-Pacific Utilities (CP National)-Gas
430      6-10-1991   WP Natural Gas; a natural gas franchise
458      2-9-1998    Granting to GTE Northwest Incorporated, a land franchise
479      10-14-2002  Granting Oregon Trail Electric Consumers Cooperative,
                     Inc., Electrical energy franchise
499      2-13-2006   Granting Avista Corporation, DBA Avista Utilities, a
                     natural gas and distribution franchise
517      2-9-2009    Granting Craig George and Robin George, dba Union
                     Sanitation Service, a solid waste management franchise
549      8-10-2015   Granting to Oregon Trail Electric Consumers Cooperative,
                     Inc. an electrical energy franchise
554      - -         Granting Avista Corporation, DBA Avista Utilities, a
                     natural gas and distribution franchise
567      8-8-2022    Granting a non-exclusive telecommunications franchise to
                     Ziply Fiber Northwest, LLC
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
         Passed
417      1-16-1990 Vacating a portion of West Iowa Street extending 210 feet M/
                   L westerly from South Fourth Street
420      5-14-1990 Vacating a portion of South Fifth Street lying between Arch
                   Street and Beakman Street
423      11-19-    Vacating a portion of North College Street
         1990
                   Vacating the alley in the block bounded by East Center
455      9-8-1997  Street, South College Street, East Dearborn Street and South
                   Main Street
474      2-12-2001 Vacating the westerly 210 feet of West Iowa Street between
                   block 15 and block 16 of Hannah’s Addition Subdivision
478      6-10-2002 Vacating a portion of Sixth Street at its intersection of
                   the south side of Arch Street
501      4-10-2006 Vacating the alley in the south half of Block 10, Hannah’s
                   Addition
520      3-18-2010 Vacating the alley in the block bounded by South Bellwood,
                   East Arch, South College and East Beakman
550      3-14-2016 Vacating 12th Street in West Catherine Meadows subdivision
556      6-12-2017 Vacating undeveloped subdivision and vacation of West Delta
                   Street
559      3-9-2020  Vacating portions of Ninth and Fulton Streets
561      6-22-2020 Vacating a portion of Fir Street
562      5-10-2021 Vacating a portion of Main Street
569      11-14-    Vacating a portion of S. Gale Street from the Arch Street
         2022      intersection to the Beakman Street intersection
                  
 
TABLE IV: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
435      10-12-1992  Amending Zoning Map by changing the designation of certain
                     parts of the Industrial Zone
442      11-14-1994  Changing zoning of property west of Tenth Street and north
                     of Union Junction Lane from I-Industrial to R-Residential
                     Amending Land Use Plan Map and Zoning Map designations for
467      6-28-1999   certain property in the vicinity of the Union Wastewater
                     Treatment Plan from R-1 Residential to I-Industrial
                     Changing land use plan map and zone map designation for
468      7-12-1999   certain property south of Grande Street from A-1 Exclusive
                     Farm Use to R-1 Residential
                     Re-zoning property described as TWP. 45, Range 40 EWM,
470      2-14-2000   Section 19, Tax Lot 300, from a County A-2 agriculture
                     grazing zone to a city residential zone
480      10-14-2002  Amending Comprehensive Land Use Plan; expansion of the
                     urban growth boundary
                     Amending Land Use Plan Map and Zoning Map to re-zone
494      5-11-2005   certain property in the city from Industrial (I) to
                     Residential (R)
                     Amending the Land Use Plan Map and Zoning Map to re-zone
513      2-11-2008   certain property from Heavy Commercial (C-2) to
                     Residential (R-1)
534      7-14-2014   Amending the Comprehensive Plan, zoning regulations, and
                     Land Use/Zoning Map
557      10-14-2019  Amending the zoning of 04S4019BD, Tax Lot 2300, from R-1
                     (Residential) to C-2 (Heavy Commercial)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cite Code Section
O.R.S. Cite         Code Section
Ch. 10              34.03
30.310              70.07
30.315              70.07
Ch. 34              91.05
34.010 – 34.100   50.016,
                    91.99
                    152.01,
Ch. 92              152.08,
                    152.10
92.010(11)          155.036
92.044              152.07
92.048              152.13
92.050 – 92.080   152.08
92.070              152.08
92.090(4)           152.08
92.090(5)           152.08
92.095              152.08
92.100              152.08
92.170              152.08
92.180 et seq       155.036
92.180 – 92.190   152.08
92.190              155.036
137.290             10.99
137.290(2003)       35.99
137.309             10.99
137.309(2003)       35.99
Ch. 153              
                    71.002
Ch. 161             131.001
161.085             33.01
Ch. 162             131.001
Ch. 163             131.001
Ch. 164             131.001
164.015 – 164.045 131.045
164.065             131.045
164.085 – 164.125 131.045
Ch. 165             131.001
Ch. 166             131.001
166.260             131.028
166.293             131.028
Ch. 167             91.10,
                    131.001
Ch. 192             113.15
197.610             152.13 ,
                    155.116
197.610(1)          155.196
197.615             155.119
197.628 – 197.636 155.165
197.763(2)(a)       155.141
197.763(3)(a)       155.142
197.763(3)(b)       155.142
197.763(3)(c)       155.142
197.763(3)(d)       155.142
197.763(3)(e)       155.142
197.763(3)(g)       155.142
197.763(3)(h)       155.142
197.763(3)(i)       155.142
197.763(3)(j)       155.142
Ch. 203             70.07
215.283(2)(q) – (r152.03
Ch. 223             50.011,
                    50.012
223.505 – 223.650 99.08
223.205 – 223.755 94.044
223.208             50.012
223.505 - 223.650   97.14,
                    98.03
Ch. 227             152.01
227.175             155.120
227.178             155.145,
                    155.196
Ch. 279A            30.01
279A.180            30.03
Ch. 279B            30.01
279B.075            30.03
279B.080            30.03
279B.085            30.03
Ch. 279C            30.01
279C.305            30.04
279C.335            30.04
279C.400 – 279C.4130.04
Ch. 297             113.15
305.220             113.09
305.620             113.02
311.250             155.166
314.400             113.09
320.300             113.02
320.308             113.06
390.570             70.03
390.577             70.03
446.003             155.120
446.062             153.05
446.185             153.05
447.020(2)          153.05
Ch. 448             50.030
Ch. 455             153.08
455.020(2)          153.05
455.496             153.05
455.610             153.05
455.680             153.05
Ch. 459             52.01
459.005             52.02
459.386             52.02
Ch. 459A            52.01
459A.005            52.02
459A.700 – 459A.7452.02
460.085             153.05
460.360             153.05
466.005             52.02
467.030             70.04
Ch. 476             153.05
479.015 – 479.200 153.05
479.210 – 479.220 153.05
479.730(1)          153.05
480.545             153.05
496.731(b)          131.104
569.615             98.01
Ch. 609             91.17
609.125             91.02
649.080             71.002
Ch. 801             70.08
801.490             70.11
801.220             71.071
801.245             70.08
801.355             71.032
801.366             70.08
801.460             131.170
801.575             71.003
801.580             71.003
Ch. 801 – 826     70.08
Ch. 802             71.002
Ch. 803             71.002
Ch. 805             71.002
Ch. 806             71.002
806.060             70.04
Ch. 807             71.002
Ch. 809             71.002
Ch. 810             71.002
Ch. 811             71.002,
                    71.032
811.255             70.05
Ch. 814             71.002,
                    71.070
814.400 – 814.480 71.055
Ch. 815             71.002
Ch. 816             71.002
Ch. 818             71.002
Ch. 819             93.02
819.170             93.03
819.180             93.03,
                    93.05
819.210             93.08,
                    93.10
                    93.06 –
819.220             93.08,
                    93.10
819.240             93.06,
                    93.08
819.250             93.10
Ch. 820             71.002
821.030             70.04
821.040             70.04
821.191             70.01
821.200             70.01
821.200(1)          70.02
821.220             70.04
821.230             70.04
Ch. 823             71.002
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
85-9     7-8-1985    Ch. 72, Sched. I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
205      5-4-1931    Ch. 72, Sched. I
                     111.20 –
206      5-4-1939    111.27,
                     111.99
217      5-19-1941   34.30 –
                     34.32
218      5-19-1941   94.040 –
                     94.044
                     110.075 –
229      5-19-1941   110.078,
                     110.999
                     94.060 –
232      5-19-1941   94.064,
                     94.080 –
                     94.086
213      5-21-1941   31.20 –
                     31.22
214      5-21-1941   31.40 –
                     31.42
213-A    12-3-1956   31.21,
                     31.22
247      12-3-1956   110.040 –
                     110.058
                     110.025 –
200-B    1-5-1959    110.027,
                     110.999
213-B    5-4-1959    31.21,
                     31.22
213-C    2-8-1960    31.21,
                     31.22
253      2-8-1960    34.01 –
                     34.13
257      11-8-1965   90.01
259      4-11-1966   32.40 –
                     32.50
263      10-10-1966  112.25 –
                     112.38
264      1-9-1967    154.01 –
                     154.10
266      7-10-1967   Ch. 72, Sched. I
270      11-6-1967   TSO, Table I
272      4-8-1968    112.01 –
                     112.09
277      10-29-1969  132.01
278      12-8-1969   33.02
281      6-8-1970    154.08
293      10-21-1974  31.40 –
                     31.42
                     34.01,
294      10-21-1974  34.10,
                     34.12
297      10-21-1974  32.20 –
                     32.23
                     51.001,
                     51.015 –
                     51.018,
                     51.035 –
                     51.043,
                     51.060 –
                     51.070,
304      4-7-1975    51.085 –
                     51.094,
                     51.110,
                     51.125,
                     51.126,
                     51.140 –
                     51.146,
                     51.999
308      10-6-1975   TSO, Table I
310      11-20-1975  TSO, Table I
311      5-3-1976    130.01
318      5-18-1977   TSO, Table I
                     51.001,
319      5-18-1977   51.140,
                     51.141
322      8-15-1977   TSO, Table I
323      11-14-1977  32.01 –
                     32.05
328      3-13-1978   TSO, Table II
                     155.001,
                     155.003,
                     155.004,
                     155.015,
                     155.016,
                     155.030,
                     155.037 –
337      6-11-1979   155.042,
                     155.060 –
                     155.071,
                     155.085 –
                     155.094,
                     155.190 –
                     155.197,
                     155.999
344      1-14-1980   32.41,
                     32.45
345      3-10-1980   TSO, Table I
349      5-29-1980   112.07
348      7-14-1980   34.06 –
                     34.08
351      9-9-1980    155.041
353      1-12-1981   51.142 –
                     51.146
354      2-9-1981    91.18
368      12-12-1983  32.01
                     155.003,
                     155.015,
                     155.017,
369      4-9-1984    155.033,
                     155.034,
                     155.040,
                     155.042 –
                     155.045
371      4-9-1984    94.080,
                     94.086
377      1-11-1985   51.146
391      2-10-1985   71.031
                     71.002,
378      3-11-1985   71.003,
                     71.105
385      5-13-1985   71.030
386      7-8-1985    TSO, Table II
387      7-8-1985    TSO, Table II
388      11-18-1985  TSO, Table II
389      12-9-1985   TSO, Table II
402      7-13-1987   31.60 –
                     31.66
403      7-13-1987   31.20 –
                     31.22
404      7-13-1987   30.25 –
                     30.35
413      5-8-1989    155.196
417      1-16-1990   TSO, Table III
                     151.25 –
419      2-12-1990   151.30,
                     151.99
                     152.01 –
                     152.03,
418      3-12-1990   152.05 –
                     152.15,
                     152.99
420      5-14-1990   TSO, Table III
421      5-30-1990   50.060 –
                     50.079
423      6-25-1990   TSO, Table I
423      11-19-1990  TSO, Table III
                     71.002,
424      11-19-1990  71.032,
                     71.055,
                     71.070
425      1-14-1991   33.01,
                     33.99
                     151.01 –
428      1-14-1991   151.08,
                     151.99
426      2-11-1991   93.01 –
                     93.13
429      2-11-1991   155.041
430      6-10-1991   TSO, Table II
                     110.001 –
434      7-13-1992   110.009,
                     110.999
435      10-12-1992  TSO, Table IV
                     155.003,
437      1-11-1993   155.035,
                     155.038,
                     155.041
442      11-14-1994  TSO, Table IV
                     94.020 –
443      6-12-1995   94.023,
                     94.999
445      6-26-1995   94.999
448      2-12-1996   151.02
451      7-8-1996    155.037,
                     155.090
446      9-9-1996    150.01
                     93.13,
453      4-14-1997   94.002 –
                     94.005
455      9-8-1997    TSO, Table III
456      9-8-1997    93.04
458      2-9-1998    TSO, Table II
459      6-8-1998    110.026
460      6-8-1998    110.075
                     131.001 –
                     131.006,
                     131.015 –
                     131.031,
                     131.045 –
                     131.048,
                     131.065,
                     131.066,
                     131.080 –
461      6-8-1998    131.085,
                     131.100 –
                     131.103,
                     131.120 –
                     131.129,
                     131.145 –
                     131.148,
                     131.165 –
                     131.172,
                     131.999
                     155.003,
463      8-10-1998   155.030 –
                     155.032
464      10-12-1998  91.02
467      6-28-1999   TSO, Table IV
468      7-12-1999   TSO, Table IV
470      2-14-2000   TSO, Table IV
474      2-12-2001   TSO, Table III
478      6-10-2002   TSO, Table III
479      10-14-2002  TSO, Table II
480      10-14-2002  TSO, Table IV
                     152.01 –
481      9-13-2004   152.16,
                     152.99
482      2-14-2005   30.25 –
                     30.35
489      2-14-2005   30.01 –
                     30.08
488      3-14-2005   31.01 –
                     31.06
490      4-11-2005   50.030 –
                     50.044
495      4-11-2005   50.075
494      5-11-2005   TSO, Table IV
                     155.002,
                     155.004,
                     155.070,
                     155.088,
                     155.110 –
491      6-13-2005   155.124,
                     155.140 –
                     155.144,
                     155.160 –
                     155.171,
                     155.190 –
                     155.197
495      7-18-2005   130.01
                     10.99,
                     34.01 ,
498      12-12-2005  35.01,
                     35.02,
                     35.99
499      2-13-2006   TSO, Table II
500      4-10-2006   50.001 –
                     50.016
501      4-10-2006   TSO, Table III
                     155.041 –
496      6-12-2006   155.044,
                     155.067,
                     155.090
510      11-13-2006  10.99
508      6-28-2007   50.068
                     155.088,
509      2-11-2008   155.140,
                     155.145,
                     155.191
                     155.037,
512      2-11-2008   155.038,
                     155.060
513      2-11-2008   TSO, Table IV
514      5-12-2008   155.036,
                     155.090
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
517      2-9-2009    52.15 –
                     52.20,
                     52.99,
                     TSO, Table II
519      7-13-2009   131.029
520      3-8-2010    TSO, Table III
                     71.001 –
                     71.003,
                     71.020 –
                     71.040,
                     71.055,
523      9-13-2010   71.056,
                     71.070 –
                     71.073,
                     71.090,
                     71.105 –
                     71.108,
                     71.125
                     91.01 –
524      9-13-2010   91.17,
                     91.99
                     96.01 –
525      5-14-2012   96.05,
                     96.99
526      6-11-2012   156.01 –
                     156.15
                     153.01 –
                     153.12,
                     153.30 –
                     153.35,
                     153.50 –
527      1-14-2013   153.61,
                     153.75 –
                     153.77,
                     153.99,
                     Ch. 153, App. A,
                     Ch. 153, App. B
530      5-13-2013   154.05,
                     154.07
531      5-13-2012   71.032
533      3-10-2014   131.104,
                     131.999
534      7-14-2014   155.01,
                     TSO, Table IV
537      9-8-2014    91.18
538      9-8-2014    10.99
539      9-8-2014    95.01 –
                     95.05
                     98.01 –
540      12-8-2014   98.05,
                     98.99
                     97.01 –
542      11-10-2014  97.15,
                     97.99
                     92.01,
543      11-10-2014  92.15 –
                     92.29
544      11-10-2014  50.013
545      11-10-2014  50.068
546      12-8-2014   92.40 –
                     92.47
                     92.01,
                     92.15 –
                     92.29,
                     92.40 –
                     92.47,
                     95.01 –
                     95.05,
547      4-13-2015   96.01 –
                     96.05,
                     96.99,
                     97.01 –
                     97.15,
                     97.99,
                     98.01 –
                     98.05,
                     98.99
                     100.01 –
548      11-14-2015  100.08,
                     100.99
549      8-10-2015   TSO, Table II
550      3-14-2016   TSO, Table III
551      4-11-2016   71.039
                     155.003,
                     155.015,
554      - -         155.017,
                     155.046,
                     TSO, Table IV
                     99.01 –
555      11-9-2014   99.10,
                     99.99
556      6-12-2017   TSO, Table III
557      10-14-2019  TSO, Table IV
558      8-12-2019   155.003,
                     155.041
559      3-9-2020    TSO, Table III
560      5-11-2020   70.01 –
                     70.10
561      6-22-2020   TSO Table III
562      5-10-2020   TSO Table III
563      9-13-2021   50.068
564      11-8-2021   98.01
                     113.01 –
565      3-14-2022   113.18,
                     113.99
566      8-8-2022    130.02,
                     113.09
567      8-8-2022    TSO Table II
568      8-8-2022    130.02
569      11-14-2022  TSO Table III
                    
 
 
